ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12591	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 155 members of Parliament are present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall so that we can continue our work. They were prevented from attending, and only two MPs signed up, such as Milisav Petronijevic and Djordje Komlenski, are likely to be there. We continue the joint, principled, unique search of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 27 of the agenda. Yesterday we heard authorized representatives of the promoter. Does the presidents, or the authorised representatives, want a word? National MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12592	The Honorable President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, here we are again in 24 hours, from the 27th agenda. It is clear that the time of authorised representatives of 20 minutes allows 40 seconds per law. So it's not possible to talk about every law or talk about details, which shows us that there was really no willingness to work together on, possibly, improving proposed legislative proposals. I'm sure many of you agree that it's not a good approach and that you're in these benches the way we sit here, you probably wouldn't be pleased to get a chance to analyze all these laws and contribute to this debate. But it's not the first time and I'm going to stand here on objections to procedural matters, but I don't think it's just procedural things, it's really essential. It is a matter of respect for Parliament and a desire to work together to make things right. That's why I'm going to talk about groups of laws without entering them individually, and maybe I'll explain two laws in more detail, depending on the time. One group of laws refers to a delay in the application of the law, and I will read about the laws, above all, the delay in the deadlines of application. We agreed on deadlines here together, and the government proposed those deadlines to us with its bill of law. We believed in sufficient efficiency that they would be realised and the majority voted in those laws by accepting exactly those proposals. Now we get back four or five laws asking for a delay in the application of those laws. Three years ago, we discussed the Law on Public Property, one of the essential laws in a set of laws that must do property relations in the Republic of Serbia. Then we said, if there was no readiness and no capacity, above all local self-government, public enterprises, AP, that by the end of the adopted laws, I would remind you, about 20 September 2011, a Law on Public Property was adopted, with a three-year deadline, three years later, we adopted an extension of that deadline in 2014, and here we are again in a position to adopt a new extension of the same law. What does that tell us essentially? On the Committee on Budget and Finance, we also discussed this with Mrs. Brnabic, which is whether the government is responsible for the inefficientness of local self-governments that fail to implement what is necessary in order to then apply in the right way and the laws that we have, here, and yesterday most adopted some of the laws, such as. The law on private-public partnership, concessions, communal systems, and how we will enter private-public partnerships in municipal systems at the level of local self-government, or give these systems to a concession, if we do not know what capital is and what the ownership of these same local self-government and public enterprises is. Now, we're discussing postponing, in a year's time for the application of this law. I'll remind you, and that's what we talked about in 2012, this majority won the elections, got a chance to run the Republic of Serbia. At the time, local self-government and coalitions with the central level of government were well-known, explaining that this would be much more effective, that it would be synchronised work both by local self-government and by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was done in many local self-governments, somewhere really in a legitimate way with great support, but there was no such support, but other coalitions and people who received support from the locals were formed, but they changed the coalition in force and that part of the coalition at the local level. I'm talking about that responsibility right now. Well, yes, the responsibility of this majority is for those since 2012, and here we are now entering 2017, four and a half years of opportunities to apply these laws. And this responsibility is also on this government, and it is also on the people who run local self-government, in coalitions and above all political coalitions that work in this way. What else is he telling us? Are we ready to continue the reform process in the Republic of Serbia when we have a postponement of the Law on Public Property which touches local self-government where real life is taking place and where all municipal needs of people should be ensured, clean drinking water and providing heat energy and treating solid waste and many other things and pre-school institutions and schools, and that we did not create for these four and a half years to encourage local economic development and much more reliable sources of income for local self-government, which was a tendency to adopt these laws. We sit here now, discussing many laws that can be good, excellent or less good, or bad, but what's it worth to us if there's not a law like this for four and a half years? What's it all about? To get these registers right, I know they're incompatible in many municipalities and cities, that they need to be centralized, but technology and information communications have made so much progress that in four and a half years it was possible to do so. So it's one of the areas. The second area is, here, the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, the second is the Law on Public Media Services, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Temporary Arrangement of the Method of Payment of Taxes for Public Media Service, and then, the Proposal for a Law on Regulating Courts. We have different areas, the judiciary, not effective enough, and the question is, is there, since the Secretary-General is not present here, are we meeting the agenda needed here because of the opening of Chapter 23, and does this delay affect our path, an effective path towards EU integration? That's what we agreed on here most of the time. Many reforms, many laws are clearly delayed and there is one thing that is obvious. I think we're all clear. With a set of these laws, we are confident, therefore, that this is a set of pre-election laws and that we will have not only the presidential elections next year, but also the parliamentary elections next year, because all the difficult reform moves that were to be withdrawn from the first January 1, 2017 are delayed by 1 January 2018, or by the middle of the year, just after the announced term of the presidential and parliamentary elections, because it is not popular now to break the government president's promise that he will cancel the subscription to RTS of 500 dinars, and now we will return that tax, so we will extend some hybrid solution that we have at this time and make a sustainable way and system of financing public service, to delay public property reforms, around public enterprises, and I think it is clear to all of us. But that temporary nature basically has two points that define temporaryity. It's the beginning of preparation and application and the end of that temporary, the time when it ends. What do we have as an example? That we have a permanent delay in that time when she stops. So it's not temporary anymore. We're really entering some solutions that aren't temporary, because obviously this is now becoming permanent solutions. Mathematically, we have a beginning and we have a half-government that doesn't have that end and that goes on forever in a time-consuming sense. The same goes for the salary reduction law, temporary wage cuts and pensions. There is no temporary reduction in wages and pensions, as well as in these laws where we confirm that a growing number of laws receive a proposal and a solution to the addition and amendments of laws – the deadline is extended. That won't contribute to any efficiency. You're aware of it yourself, and we talked about it. The continued extension of the deadlines, for example, for mayors, the presidents of municipalities, city and municipal councils, is a message – well, there are no consequences, it can be extended. We have this as a message in these two extension cycles for three years, so here we are for another year. So much for this set of laws. The second feature of all these laws that have been proposed is a new task, new loans, raising public debt levels. I'll go from, Minister Vujovic is not there, but the secretary of state is here and I hope I get the answer, that we all heard in public yesterday the official data that the public debt for November is 24.71 billion euros, which is 72.4% of GDP. We have never, and we have discussed this in adopting the budget, never or very rarely hear the absolute amounts of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. It is easy to figure out what GDP is from these two data, so 34 billion euros or 34.1 billion for 2016. What am I talking about? If we have a 3% growth projection for 2017, that's about one billion, so let's be 1.1, it's less than that, so in the following year, in 2017 we expect 35.1 billion GDP from this data in the Republic of Serbia. We voted here for the 2017 budget with a projection of four thousand and 400 billion dinars and were constantly talking about that figure, when you turn it into a euro, that's 35.7 billion per current rate, so somewhere between 35.7 billion and 35.1 billion, there's only 0.6 of something, and that's 0.6 billion, and that's 600 million euros. Then the question arises how realistic budget projections are and everything we decided on a few weeks ago. The 105m-euro Petrochem debt, which turns into a public debt, increases exactly this debt from 24.7 to 24.8. Debts, and again a series of pre-election bills, duties to build roads. It's nice to build roads, but we've suggested and discussed the responsibility of all of us. Give us a proposal for a measure in which we will manage public debt, because the government's legal obligation under the Budgetary System Act is to propose a set of measures for any adoption of the budget, which is above 45% of the participation in GDP. We are now without these concrete proposals and without this analysis making new laws in which we are in charge of some likely, in fact raising public debt by some probably around 500m euros. So I think we need a higher level of responsibility. You may have answers to these questions, but to get the right answers, I think it took more time and more conversation on each of these laws. What is interesting and what is a large part of the public in Serbia, especially young people have forgotten, is something that reminds us of the 1990s. Since we have a border here - of the two-thousands came some Democrats, some people who have ruined a country so great by then. This type of message is constantly being broadcast in this congregation. We have a set of laws in which we now resuscitate and convert into public debt only part of the liabilities of old foreign currency savings. We forgot about that appointment. You've got your old foreign savings and you've got your new foreign savings. What's old-fashioned foreign savings is no longer yours. Imagine the state where you work for the whole century, you save, you believe in your country, you believe in your banking system, you lay down your savings, and then that same country the next day, when you wake up in the morning, it says – well, what you had is no longer available, it's an old foreign currency savings, and you can't raise and dispose of your money. I'm talking about it, because here's the consequence that brings us into the ongoing debates of that kind. Clearly, this is to be resolved and this has begun to be resolved by the government of the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in 2002, when the Law on the return of old foreign currency savings was passed in the period until 2016. I have not heard from any of you, or I hope to hear the words here – bravo for this move, because you have corrected one great injustice that is terrible all over Serbia, and especially for the citizens who have lost their money, who could not get their money, but much of it has been lost the trust of the entire business community. These are terrible consequences. We're treating them now. They should be cured, they should continue, but about 200m euros were estimated plus some 80m euros to foreign citizens who had lost their foreign exchange savings in banks based in the Republic of Serbia. I think we can see from these laws and it's important to remember why we have problems with our budget and with the implementation of that budget. When was that PIO fund ruined? When we got into these problems, and what brought us exactly this state-leading and 4.2 billion foreign exchange savings, which turns into public debt from 1992 to 2002, with the consequences being treated, here until the end of 2016 with this session, and where do we correct all these things most often attributed to those who took responsibility for this country by 2000? So I think it's very important that here, not constantly looking for an alibi, this government and this congregation majority take responsibility and say clearly -- yes, we are inefficient systems that cannot apply the laws that we have adopted here. We have insufficient capacity, and I am telling you that for the most part, the reason for these insufficient capacities is precisely the ending of the will of those who, first of all, voted in those local elections in 2012. Some kind of continuity in all institutions must be ensured, some kind of continuity, primarily in institutions. I'm not talking about political continuity, I'm talking about the strength of institutions that will have enough opportunities, enough intellectual powers to implement these laws. I say once again, we can make great laws, but it's obvious and it turns out we have a chronic decline, worrying about the capacity of institutions at every level. I think that's the way to talk about it in search of a solution. I say once again, the mark of this session is 27 laws for 24 hours to be processed, a set of laws that says we delay the application of the laws that we have adopted here with the trust of the promoter, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it will meet those deadlines, and we raise our hands for these laws and the obvious unpreparedness and insufficient capacity to realise it and, thirdly, the raising of public debt continues. Since 2012, public debt from May of 15 billion euros has been growing. Here he comes again. He fell at some point and grew to 25 billion, and at some point to 24.2. Now with official data at 24.71, and with these new laws, which are likely to be passed this week, we have a public debt growth that will again exceed 25 billion dinars. When we talk about the future of our children, how we decide in this congregation hall, whether we spend our children's future or not, whether we're responsible for these moves, I think it's important to say exactly that message. You have rights, I tell you, you have the right to say at some point – yes, we are responsible. They are not responsible for the previous authorities there or say – the previous government, in 1992, abolished the old foreign currency savings and made it impossible for people to receive what they had earned for years, and you know who did the coalition then and did the power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12593	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is Branislav Nedimovic and Aleksandra Tomic, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12594	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, first and foremost for the sake of the public, we need to say a few facts concerning the budget, and they are related to the information that was just mentioned. I think it's very important to distinguish nominal growth from real growth. The nominal growth included in the 2017 budget foresees real growth that has been achieved and which is, in fact, GDP compared to 2.8%, as it stood for 2016, but it is also very important to calculate the inflation rate. That's exactly what you were talking about. That 600 million you say is missing, so that's it. Through this is a calculated nominal growth is equal to real growth plus inflation. This is all incorporated into the 2017 budget and I think it is very important for the public to know that this budget for 2017, which was adopted a few days ago, and by the Fiscal Council and by the IMF has been assessed as good and numerical figures are absolutely correct. I would ask you not to get that information, that information is not entirely accurate. As far as borrowing is concerned, you say there will be an increased debt based on these draft laws on the agenda. I'll remind you of only one thing, 1.1 billion euros was made more GDP in 2016. There will be no increase in debt, even that debt rate tends to decline, which is good through all these laws that will be adopted in the voting day will not grow in Serbia's debt, and that is very important to say. As for the third thing, and it relates to public property, I think you've been in local self-government, you've been doing that job, you've been doing a job in a public company, and you know how difficult the problem of registering public property is. Thirty, forty years old, a bunch of things were recorded on local communities, on differentOURs, SOURs, and I don't even know what legal forms anymore. The procedure is very close to the end. Last year, a special application under the Property Directorate to deal with additional property recording was established. A large number of local self-governments have completed this obligation. We have one small problem with a small number of local self-government and two public enterprises, and that's quite enough time to solve this thing. I think it's very important to say that these are hard jobs, but the jobs that need to be done. Serbia's government shows its readiness to complete them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12595	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12596	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's agenda is the agenda on which we will discuss and contain 27 points, where more than 15 is a practical proposal from the Committee on Finance. This suggests that the areas from which the remaining points are directly related to finance. Two points that are related to RTS, the practical payment of cabs from which RTS will be financed, because unless we adopt such proposals, there will be no four billion in the budget and RTS will have nothing to finance from. Therefore, other points proposed are also directly linked to finance. The next points that are very important are authentic interpretations related to the property, which directly affect the area of finance, as well as proposals relating to institutions in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. That is why it should be said today that by not voting on such a agenda, by opposing it, we are showing that we do not want to establish institutions that are within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament, that we do not want to solve the problems of Serbian citizens from the past, such as old foreign savings. You know, some people have folded the tab, asked the International Court for international judgments, to pay off their old foreign currency savings. It wasn't likely at the time of 2012, because someone didn't want to solve such problems, but so the state wouldn't lose 40m euros more than it would now, then we'd better discuss it today and pass these laws. The third thing is the part that concerns European integration. We are aware that many things in the area of justice and judicial law must be resolved and such laws must be passed by 1 January. Therefore, this session solves citizens' problems, it is also directly related to the area of the budget and is the result of the practical vote of the budget in this Assembly and I think that with full justification today, what we have to talk about in the area of resolving the problem from which all Serbian citizens will benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12597	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12598	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, and myself, and the Parliament Group to which I belong New Serbia is fully in agreement with the motions on the urgency of making these amendments and additions, above all, the law by 1 January 2017, and we will support these proposals in the Voting Day. What I would like to personally look at are a few things about the proposals themselves, and here I have to say, I am now a little bit and withdrawn and by the discussion of my predecessor, are certain shifts of deadlines, first of all, in things that local self-government needed to do, and that is, just before we heard, amendments and additions to the Public Property Act. Here is the Minister for Local Self-Government, and I would also like to immediately refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which is well related to local self-government. We had opportunities for the previous days and months to hear from Prime Minister Vukic that, something we expected in 2016, which is the Law on paying classes, that it will not be passed in 2016. I would like to ask of you, and I think that the citizens of Serbia expect real deadlines, when in one unique way we will be able to settle salaries in the public sector. I mean now not only local self-governments, municipalities and cities, but also public enterprises and salaries of employees in resolution ministries. I think this is a very important piece of information for all people who are employed, and there are hundreds of thousands of them, because I think what we're saying is that for the equal work that you're giving, whether you're on a counter in a municipality in Belgrade or in Vlasotin, or in the Shop or I don't know where, I think you should get equal profits. The average salaries in Belgrade, living standards and everything else, whether it can be measured with some smaller municipality from the interior is another issue, but the ministry must come out in a clear way with a proposal for a public sector salary settlement and that the issue be removed once from the agenda. Here, my colleague Aleksandar Tomic, said earlier, when it comes to extending deadlines, enrolment and colleague Nedimovic, the minister, spoke about it, entering public property, where certain local self-governments are late, and I would say that at this point it is not local self-government but public enterprises, but also for a number of local self-governments I have to say, certain reliefs, I do not want to play the lawyer here a municipality, but the bottom line is that we have been banned from public sector employment for the past two years. We have a real lack of people who can do all these jobs, and that is one difficult circumstance. On the other hand, we have a lot of municipalities in Serbia, and I come from one such one, from Topola, where you had different basics, after 1945 really one savage nationalisation and where you now clearly list what is, very problematic. Especially when we haven't yet, and this will come into effect in January 2017 in about 10-15 days, a new law on cooperatives, which will clearly define at the local level what cooperative property is, and what will actually be something that will be potentially public property, which is now a major stumbling block in every local self-government. On the other hand, we have another delay regarding local self-government, and it's not directly on the agenda, but here it's about reduced capacity of local self-government itself, and it's about transferring data from church books to home books in every local self-government. There, too, we're late with that. I'd like to ask, first of all, the Secretary-General to help local self-government. We do have, however, a really super-naked law that some of the previous governments have passed, which is that only local self-governments can do the job. It's a big problem, because the law prescribed that these parents have completed law schools and those old ones who found themselves, they're, unfortunately, at the end of the working century and they're more sick than they do, and then that job literally doesn't have anyone who can do it. I'd just like to say a few more sentences about the second and third amendments to the Media Public Service Act. Of course, and in a later debate, other fellow MPs will probably talk a lot about it. I can say once again, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Parliament Group that I represent here, New Serbia, to support these changes. Temporary financing of media public services, RTS and TV will be provided by 1 January 2018. The colleague said it was four billion from the Republika Srpska budget in 2017. It is nothing controversial, plus citizens will pay those 150 dinars over taxis to every electric number in Serbia. We're talking about four billion in the Republic budget right now, that's about 32 million euros if we translate it into a European currency right now. And it's nothing controversial. What I would first of all ask, and here I would like to say hello, here is probably the first time here, and the new Secretary of State for Information, Mr Brajovic, and I simply hope that his arrival at the Ministry will contribute, first of all, to RTS, as a media public service being much better. And when I say much better, I remember from my boys' day, and from the school program, and from the education program, which was much better than it was today, I don't know if RTB had much more money than it has today, but we have here, and my colleagues from New Serbia, asked multiple questions about the height of the employees' wages at the public service, and believe me, we've almost never received it. This is something of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in which it is precisely spent this great money that we spend from the budget, on public services both in Belgrade and in Novi Sad. We would like to know then, I understand big commercial television and advertising programs, but you now have literally, and when the second journal is RTS, that you have a cut with the advertising program, how much it costs, and whether these money will be used to promote cultural, historical values of Serbia, to help all manifestations in the Republic of Serbia, and unfortunately, not only do we have an abundance of review programs and I have to say, sometimes in the evenings and in prime terms, violent movies that children watch. It's something that really doesn't like what we want it to be, which is a national public service. On the other hand, I absolutely support that he has a secure source of funding and therefore New Serbia, in the voting day, will also, in this provision amend the Media Public Service Act and support, with all these remarks that I have made. It is looking forward to the arrival of someone who has worked on RTS for so many years, or on Belgrade Television, as someone from the house who will know a lot of things in that service to arrange. What I wanted to say was, in this opening part, how much time will allow me. That is, we have already mentioned, and colleagues who spoke before me, the obligations of the state that we have on the basis of old foreign savings, related to the Court of Human Rights ruling from Strasbourg in 2014, amount to that old debt that occurred there by April 1992, is about as much as I found here in the data, up to 310m euros. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they should know that this applies to citizens from the former republics of the SFRY, who had foreign currency savings in banks that had a centre, they still have them in the Republic of Serbia today. This verdict, mentioned in Strasbourg in 2014, concerns the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia. But unfortunately, my colleague, who spoke before me of an old regime that was in 1992 when the problems of old foreign savings arose, but did not mention anything that Mladjan Dinkic and his then government did, which was that they did not include when they solved the problem of old foreign savings, did not even include our citizens designated from Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro. That's what we have to pay now and what my colleague Tomic has already brought out, better to do today than to do it in a year or two, but then it's going to cost us a lot more and a lot more. I'd like to mention, of course, in this part of it, colleagues have already carried out the debt for, above all, the shares of the Surcin-Obrenovac highway. For us from New Serbia, it is very important, because over the past decade, we have constantly potentiated the construction of the highway through the forest, i.e. the corridor to western Serbia. We are now pleased to say that, we hope, somewhere by the end of 2018, the route from Belgrade, i.e. Obrenovac, i.e. Surčin towards Obrenovac, will be completed further down to LJig and to Cačka. Two things, though unfortunately there are no representatives of the Ministry of Traffic, or the Ministry of Infrastructure, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I would like to hear whether such an arrangement with either the Chinese bank, or with another bank, will soon be in front of the MPs about the share of Cacak to Požega? It is something that we are also eager to expect and all citizens living in western Serbia, which is that the sooner we start with the stock and from Cack to Požega further from Požega to Cave or Zlatibor, now depending on which route will be determined correctly, but it would be good to do it as soon as possible. Because of the public following this transmission, I have to say that the terms of borrowing that we got from the Chinese, and about this very demanding stock from Surchin to Obrenovac, are they well aware that we have those big slides, the Umka, and something that hasn't been solved for decades, that they're very favourable. We got a loan of about $198 million to 20 years, or 240 months with a 2.5% interest that is currently the most favourable on the market. That's something we'll always say hello to. Because if we're making some kind of new value, if we're making roads, then it makes absolutely sense that the state is in charge of doing 1% in an adequate way. For this reason, of course, we will also support loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which concerns two shares in Corridor 10 at Dimitrovgrad and Leskovec. At the very end, something that I am extremely interested in, because in the last, God-days and months, in this House we have heard a lot of things and the bad ones and I simply have to point out, about the work of the independent bodies that we are here, or us or someone from the previous tides voted, I must now say that here are here ahead of us and candidates for the selection of the Commission's Council for Strengthening Competitiveness. Because of Serbia's public, I don't even know how important this Commission is, and we have a whole chapter, Chapter 8 of the accession negotiations with the EU, which is talking about competition, how famous this Commission is at all, and how important and important it is for all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it needs to create such conditions on the market that when we enter both wholesale and retail, we get certain products at the lowest price, that we don't have agreed cartels, that we don't have monopolies on the market, because these cartels, these monopolies, of course, have a huge and enormous pricelifting effect. Therefore, I would say a little more about the Competition Protection Commission itself, whose member is elected today, or at this session, and will be elected in the voting day. The 2015 Competition Protection Act created conditions for the Commission's first call and was elected in April 2006. Sublegal acts were later brought in. Of course, the Commission, when it was elected, was, let's say, in reduced capacity because it had only 15 employees. But what's important is that at this point, the third meeting of the Commission, led by the distinguished Professor, Miloje Obradovic, who has really dealt with the major problems she has encountered in the Serbian market. I also have to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that for the first time in 2011, the Commission used its legal authority to impose on itself sanctions for committed infringements of competition, i.e. measures to protect competition. The total amount fixed that year, which was later charged in the Republic of Serbia's budget, amounted to 350m dinars. The Competition Protection Commission for the first time, I must say, in the history of Serbia after 1945, punished one public company, these are funeral services for a monopoly on the market. Of course she's recognizable by that. What I would like to use in this discussion is to encourage the Commission to take care of and enter retail networks first of all, because only in such a way will it be able to help every citizen to pay for these goods and services as low as possible. Of course, the public has something to say about the proposed candidates. Serbia's new voting day will support the candidate of prominent lawyer Cedomir Radojcic. It is a man who was also in the first session of the Council to strengthen competition and fight monopolies and in 2005. He is an experienced lawyer who has 32 years of work experience, worked both in business and in local self-government. He served for more than 10 years in the company Ivan Milutinović and has experience, has the knowledge that he can contribute to the more successful work of competition itself. Once again, I would like to reiterate that New Serbia will support amendments and additions to the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12599	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the Assembly to consider and bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. You have received the resignation of MP Ivica Tonchev as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the National Assembly's committee on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time on which it was elected, MP Ivica Tonchev, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12600	Thank you, President. Fellow MPs, it's hard to choose one of the 27 agenda points that I have 20 minutes to say something about. It was interesting to listen to the minister who had been trying for 27 minutes to explain that part of the agenda that is now in front of us, who came from the government. I've been struggling to admit, enough, by reading the arguments of various laws that are ahead of us trying to present what is good for the citizens in these legal solutions. Then she said, "We have three laws where only deadlines move and nothing changes, only deadlines." Now, why are those deadlines moving, Minister? Why the Government has not passed a law governing the working legal status of salaries and other remuneration of public service employees, public authorities, etc. To what obligation did the law passed in February of this year, that it would be passed by the end of this year? What prevented the best government in the world, on the planet, however, from listening every day to its members and its leader? What capacity do you need, and why do you need another year to do it, and you haven't been able to do it in ten months? Why should we trust you to do this? There's absolutely no reason to believe you. When these deadlines are moved, the question of responsibility is why something has not been done and who is responsible. You couldn't say that, of course, because the first item of the agenda is the responsibility on you, or on your ministry. You can say - I'm a minister for only four or five months, but I think if that law was prepared, and it was supposed to be prepared together with the Public Sector Salary Act adopted in February of this year, it could and had to be found in the Assembly, not for you to come here and look for another year and not say anything. The other two points are related to paying a fee to the Public Media Service and again it is government practice that a law called temporary, in its name, has the word "temporary", becoming permanent. Not now in the first step, we now see that there is still a year to extend this temporarily, but as in the case of kidnapped pensions, which will be permanent, it seems to me that this subscription, as it is now adopted, will be a permanent solution, although something else has been promised to the citizens five years ago when the SNS came to power. It's been promised to cancel TV fees and TV subscriptions, so it's back. It took them two and a half years to cancel, and then only half a year later they came back. The court-ordered law did not arrive from the government, but a fellow MP remembered to move the deadline. He didn't exactly explain why it was like that, why it took another year to delay the application of the law. Who's responsible for this? Who is responsible in this country for what things are not done or done? The same is true of the Public Property Act, five years have not been done, and now you're looking for another year. Then we listen to the minister just before who says – the largest number, almost all of them. Who did it? Who didn't do it? We need precise numbers. Is this government capable of doing this? Is she capable of doing anything for the citizens? Analog or digital? You boasted of the introduction of an electronic application for the replacement of health books. Well, here, get out of here 500 meters, every morning that people stand in line at minus five and freeze. It's not funny. I don't know why you think that's funny. Is it funny to them that they're standing in line? I don't think it's funny. I reported my mother-in-law 45 days ago and she hasn't gotten it yet. What's an electronic application, then what do they do when they can't complete the release of one of the most common books in 45 days? It says it's 60 days, but what's the deadline? When that deadline's over, what are you gonna say? Any holidays, New Year's Eve, Christmas? We keep listening to some unfavorable excuses. Then we come up with some laws that have something to do with citizens, the VAT law and excise duties, but no, unfortunately, for the sake of the citizens. I feel guilty that there is no finance minister, because, announcing this law when we adopted the budget, he said it was personal for the proposal to introduce excise duties on sweetened fruit juices, energy drinks and sweetened water in the Excise Act. Because Serbia is threatened by an epidemic of obesity. Because we have an appeal from the World Health Organization to take action. One measure is the introduction of excise and tax. Not to fill the budget, but to create a fund for human education, for a healthy meal in schools and kindergartens, to take care of the future of this country and its citizens. But that's not in this law, because this government is a servant of large capital. This government must not draw on any "coca-cola" or some large company and say – for the benefit of our citizens, your products will be further taxed in Serbia. You don't have the courage to do that, and that's why there's no suggestion. There are increased excise duties for cigarettes, for other products, and that's fine, but we can see that the government is most praised for preventing cigarette smuggling, as some tobacco, tons or hundreds of kilos of tobacco has been seized somewhere as the biggest crime problem in Serbia. But it can't be determined who took down samal and other cases, there's no courage for it. I found it interesting with the VAT Act, the minister who explained the law tried to explain that the VAT law is not a law dealing with social issues. In doing so, she tried to explain that the only remaining measure that existed in the VAT law, since the government first abolished, or returned the VAT to food and baby equipment, but made it possible to vomit, is now announcing the discontinuation of that vomiting. He announces it by saying this will take effect when the famous fiscal support law comes into effect for families with children. I'm asking you, why don't we have that law? For two years we've been listening to announcements that this law will be and two years there's nothing. The only thing the government is, instead of upgrading the measures, because Serbia has a serious demographic problem, and it's not enough as long as you come here before the elections with some solution to give some money to the parents of newborn children to buy baby equipment and food, that's not enough. Why couldn't she have left this measure that already exists? A bulky administration, a tax administration problem to handle all this? And what does this tax administration do, what do they do? Don't do anything, because the results of your favorite mentor and one whose grades you boast are that the grey economy is growing in Serbia. How does it grow if you all do your job so well? How does it grow if the IRS is doing a good job? What's the problem? The problem is ignorance, incompetence and lack of vision, which you can see from this. As you remembered you could, it's contradictory, in the VAT Act you're talking about reducing the tax rate on briquettes and pellets, and then saying it's actually a social measure, because the loss in the budget due to the reduced VAT rate on briquettes and pellets will be replaced by employment. So you're explaining the measures in this law that will have a social effect, and you said no. Read the law to the end, read everything in it, and come here to defend it. Among other things, it is not true that only three laws move deadlines, and the Law on Public Property and the Act on Excises and the Law on Value Added Tax, in one part, move some deadlines, half a year, year. So, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration by who knows which way to move some deadlines. There's always something delaying the application of electronics, I guess you run these analogs so much that you can't separate yourself from them and move on to digital. Then they come now on the agenda, among other things, the points proposed by the Committees of the Assembly for various bodies, which have nothing to do with finance, have to do with the media, it's a special scandal, and some other things. But it was very interesting for me to read a proposal, because I discovered that there was a time machine in the congregation. I'd like you to allow me to use that time machine. Here, let me explain to you how I figured that out. When you read the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, you read how it happened and, of course, this majority is just beginning to choose the new one when the old one stops, instead of doing the job before, that there is no empty walk, that there is no way that the authorities can't work because they don't have enough members, but to put it aside now. He says the board works, works, works and then says – at the 14th session held on 16 December 2016, the committee proposed a candidate. Then I guess the board members then sat down on that time machine because they said – the board is at the 15th session, logically, the 15th coming after 14th, but held on 20th August 2016. So, in the past tense! They have suggested that this proposal be considered as an emergency procedure. And apparently that the time machine was used not only by board members, but also by the candidate, because the candidate in his letter to the Assembly to accept the candidacy signed that he accepted the candidacy for the election to the post he was proposed to by the Finance Committee on November 28th. So two weeks before the board chose him, he knew he'd be elected, or that he'd been elected by the board already. This is why this point is not being considered. He could have said 28th, I accept the candidacy I was proposed by the SNS, but he could not say I accept the candidate I was proposed to by the board, because the board only made a decision 20 days after that. So you either had to use that time machine a little bit less and a little more careful or take care of what kind of paperwork you're sending here to the National Assembly. Well, unlike you, we and in this short time have been able to read some of these points. I admit, I haven't been able to read everything, I don't have the brains, and I certainly don't have the speed, because in this Assembly, in order for you to react, you need Hussein Bolt at the Parliament Club to run from the moment when an electronic, digital, rather than analogue call is published in the Assembly system, we have eight minutes to respond and supplement the agenda proposals. But, well, I believe next time the President of the Assembly will be even more demanding, that he will leave us for three minutes, so we'll see if we can hire Hussein Bolt to help us run for that time to take the proposals to the office so that we can achieve our parliamentary rights. These laws do not contain almost anything good for citizens and this is particularly visible at one such banal point of the agenda of the proposal of the authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 5(1) and Article 53. Expropriation law. So it became a practice for the SNS to instead of adopting clear laws that could be implemented and that would protect the interests of citizens and states and introduce order. The government, or the ruling majority resort to these authentic interpretations and instead of amending the law it brings authentic interpretation here. What does this authentic interpretation have to do with it? There is a consequence of the interruption of court practice in cases, primarily related to the EPS, to the setting up of power lines and the fact that the EPS will not pay citizens the land they cannot use because the power lines are placed on their land or passing over their land. So the EPS used a hole in the law, but the court took the opposite practice and what does all this say? He says there are 102 cases currently in courts with a total value of 723 million dinars. So, about six million euros. So, this is what we need to prevent citizens who can't afford their property, de facto, from billing for it as the Expropriation Act says, and instead of making it clear to the law what's going on and how it's regulated. We have this authentic interpretation that needs to break the established case law, to the detriment of Serbian citizens. So each of these laws is, almost everyone at the expense of Serbian citizens. Petrochemy and a 105m-euro debt that is now due to become a public debt and here it is said to be so-called. The historical debt, created in some past, flows through the years, and what a company is, has been doing positively since 2014. He calms down all his obligations, even manages to repay some of his obligations from that historic past period. I'm asking what we're gonna do about some other companies that aren't on the agenda today. What about those who have been regulated by historical debt as RTB, and those who spent four billion dinars in 2016 how much they spent 4.6 billion dinars how much electricity they spent on 200 grand, so the prominent member of SNS and the director of Spasovski laughs and says- well, what, they won't shut us down. And who will these debts, not those historic ones, but those created every day by party leaders, incompetent SNS personnel, who will repay those debts rather than the citizens of this country. What makes me happy, I look forward to the first agreement for some infrastructure facility this government has managed to arrange, is about a section of the highway, building a section of the highway from Surcin to Obrenovac. I really hope that the three-year term in this agreement will be respected. I think it's good to know that they've been going on for three years, 36 months since 18 June of this year, so it's been six months now, that in two and a half years, that share will be open. Now let's all remember that and get ready for that day, I'll be happy to be there at the opening of that section of the freeway, even if then the prime minister of whoever he was at that moment drives me across the bridge and on. They are interesting, of course, candidates for the selection of members of the REM Council, since after several failed attempts and blockings over a year to elect members who come to the proposal of the Association whose objectives are to achieve freedom to support children's protection that we finally have some proposal that is likely to pass. But what I'm interested in is whether the one member chosen will have the strength and courage and support of other members to do something about broadcasting realistically in Serbia. Whether by the reputation of the countries in the environment we will limit the time of broadcast to those late evening hours when young people, or children, do not watch television or we will have these programs as is the case so far that these programmes will be broadcast 24 hours a day and make up more than 60 or 70% of the programmes of some national broadcasters. It's also a question for the ministry, of course. That's when the previous minister showed he had no courage to deal with it, but let's see what the new minister and his new secretary of state will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12601	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12602	I haven't wasted my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12603	Well, you've been talking for two seconds longer than it's supposed to be for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12604	This is the second thing, I haven't spent my time, thank God I plan to live for many more years, for the joy of my family, and for your great misfortune.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12605	Well, that's my New Year's wish to you, since we couldn't discuss the amendments dedicated to Santa Claus. Replica, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12606	Madam President, I heard a very interesting discussion from my colleague, and when he mentioned a time machine and why he would want to have it and go for a little ride with it, it was out of the expense of the mind that hit them, so they'd be back in 2001. That's the only reason. Otherwise, the whole discussion is one of the most common demagogy. Here, he touched the Tax Act on additional value, so he says, well, the tax administration has to administer too much, so we're changing the law and defending the provisions of the law that he attacked here only three or four years ago in this same assembly and saying it's unnecessary administration for citizens. Now he's defending the law. When we passed the law, it was the best thing we could offer the citizens of Serbia at that moment, and it was, they had to administer to achieve some of their rights, and we were aware of that. We now have a more stable economic situation and we can regulate it in a certain way, that there is no more administration of citizens. He says the gray economy is growing. The gray economy is one problem of this society in which all previous authorities, other than Alexander Vukic's authorities, should not have been caught in the fight against it, because they were afraid of votes and that is why it has grown so much. When they ask all these big questions, I would understand that if they weren't in power, but they were in power, and what they don't know, they're only talking about not doing anything. When they talk about political directors...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12607	Time, you used a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12608	I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12609	No, I can't give you any longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12610	I'm finishing up, I'm just...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12611	I understand, but I can't give you any longer. You can, of course, I just have to warn my colleagues that I have to delete the list, so they don't think I have an evil intention. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Can I have a replica?]] The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12612	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I wasn't there when you reintroduced VAT on food and baby equipment, and you introduced this measure of vomiting. I wasn't an MP in that assembly, so I certainly wasn't criticizing it. And freeing VAT on food and baby equipment is my best option. And we've been proposing here for a year and a half to cut the VAT rate of food to babies from 20% to 10% and there's no understanding and no support for it. But, I criticise, of course, now this solution that is even worse, even worse, because you are abolishing one remaining measure of social care and care for the citizens and the future of Serbia, which exists in the VAT law, justifying ourselves by passing a law that we don't know what it will look like and which will be the amount of one-time assistance that will be paid to parents to pay for baby equipment and food. We don't know how long it's gonna be, and we haven't heard it from anyone here, because there's no law yet. And since the law cannot be passed for two and a half years, I doubt it will be passed. Yeah, it stays the same, stays the same, but that's not enough. We have a problem in this country, a demographic problem, which can't solve the advice on fighting abortion, which we hear the government is going to bring, including the church, and I don't know who else into this problem. That's not how it's handled, gentlemen, in modern states, but active measures to support families with children. Well, that's not there. That's what's missing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12613	Thank you. Thank you for sticking to the weather. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12614	Thank you. Just a few things, first of all, I'm terribly sorry, first of all, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we make fun of electronic services here, as a way to make life easier for the citizens and the business of Serbia easier, and I guess that's why citizens live in Serbia from 2015-2016 and don't have any electronic services, have to go to the counter, collect papers, go back from the counter, go back to the counter, go back to the counter again, and collect papers, and go home, and get out of work to go to the counter, and so seven, ten hours, seven, ten days, but because now that we're going to introduce an electronic service, like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that's exactly the kind of joke here. Well, if you think that electronic services are not important to citizens, it is fortunate that this government thinks they are important, as a way to finally make life easier in the 21st century in Serbia. There's no reason to go to the counters, no reason. As for boasting about the introduction of electronic health books, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia if it seemed that my Ministry and I, as minister of this portfolio, were boasting about the introduction of health books, the electronic application for health books, because this is the thing that should make us ashamed, that we released them on 9 November 2016. I apologize if it seemed like we were bragging. It wasn't her intention. It was our intention to tell people that we finally introduced the possibility of being from home, from friends, from the work of electronic application for one service of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that because this is introduced only in 2016, there are not enough people who use this principle, but it is also true that it is important to give people a choice that they can if they want to use electronic services and apply from home or from office or from friends, and that if they do not, they can also feel safer, fit in line and wait on the counter. The third is also true that together with the Post Office of Serbia, we have introduced the possibility of applying for booklets through the mailbox of the Post office that exists in every village of the Republic of Serbia, so that when pensioners who do not want to say go to the pension club, because we have also introduced, with the help of, once again, public gratitude to volunteers from FON. They volunteer that pension clubs report pensioners by electronic means to replace electronic health books, that now that they're going to get their pensions they can do it on the mail counters. So, at least we've introduced three different possibilities for someone to log in from the house by electronic means, not to wait on any counter, to continue waiting on the RFO counters, or to do it in the mail. That's the most the government can do. The government cannot and should not lift one waiting method in line on the counters if people want to wait for rows on the counters or feel safer, but it is important to finally introduce a choice and that they can do so from home. So, once again, we didn't brag. If it seemed like we boasted, I apologize deeply and sincerely to the citizens of Serbia, because it is a shame that we should do this in 2016 and 2017, it is a shame. But it's likely that this government isn't here in 2017 and that some other majority is coming, so that everything about electronic services can be abolished again, because it's obviously a joke here. That's the first thing I wanted to say. As far as making electronic health books is concerned, it takes time. Is that something we like, that we should say hello? It's not. It's done as fast as it can. And we said that when someone logs in, they won't suffer the consequences of it, which logistically takes some time to make a new electronic health book. As for moving deadlines, it is, it's not okay to move deadlines and it is, you should always look for responsibility when the deadlines are moved. But, how can I tell you, it's been working on a lot of jobs whose deadlines are completely insane and reckless for simple jobs and even for seven years, and this government needs to finish them. Usually, when you want to do some work, you need some time. And then you systematically finish one at a time, one at a time, one at a time. That's what this government does. One of the jobs that is completely unreasonable, illogically moved for seven years is the transfer of parent books into electronic form. Again, one of the serious affairs important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, seven years. We said, say, that the deadlines would no longer move and the entire sector was working in the ministry on it. It won't move. Local self-government has to finish this job, as they know and can. Do you know what we inherited after six and a half years since that law was passed? For example, the municipality of Trstenik, on 1 November 2016, after six and a half years, more than that, the transfer of parent books into electronic form 1.5% of the work done, 1.5% of the work done. We worked with them and today 69% of the work has been done. So it can be done in two months, but no one's done it in six and a half years. Until you say, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this doesn't make any sense anymore, you'll do it, we'll help and control every day if the job is done. This job, the big job that was supposed to be done four years ago, will be completed by the end of this year, and then apparently taught by this how to do, to get the job done, along with the finance ministry, we move on to the property registration, to finish that, too. We will say – no more deadlines will be moved, we will end in 2017. We're finishing jobs that haven't ended in seven years, and I guess that means something, and I guess that's something to be commended and something that's guaranteed that these deadlines won't move. After all, they were adopted, as you say, in 2008, 2009, 2010, in 2011 excellent laws. I told the BMW laws, the Audi laws, and we're still driving the flag and Fitz, they're not being implemented. Now they're being implemented after seven years and that's why we need to move some deadlines, because we're systematically working on finishing work and we're finishing work for work. Finally, another explanation, it seems to me that I need, a refund and a lifting of the VAT-refunding right to buy food and baby equipment. I tried to explain. Yes, that will not happen until the National Assembly, or Government, completes the work on the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Until the law is completed and the government of the Republic of Serbia adopts the law, it will not be possible to abolish the right to a VAT refund, because we will not be able to replace the social measure with one-time assistance. In addition, there are more reasons for this measure, important reasons for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and one of these are these ridiculous electronic services, because then we will actually include it in this service that we started to provide this year, which is an electronic application in maternity homes for newborn children, which for the first time deny the need to go to three different places and wait on average seven hours on counters. Now they will also apply for this in maternity care and will not have to collect bills and will not have to pass a short course of training on how to do a VAT refund, but immediately all parents, as a baby is born, will be registered for the social measure. The important reason why we are doing this is that the VAT-refunding institute for the purchase of baby food and equipment is not in line with EU regulations and that the abolition of this institute is further consistent with EU rules, and thus we show once again that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is deeply committed to faster European integration. When we talk about ignorance, then I would assume that at least in some political parties declared that Serbia needs to be strategically defined for the EU and quickly joining the EU, it seems to me that because of this kind of ignorance, this may well be the reason and explanation for why these European integrations went so quickly until 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12615	The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12616	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, opened a debate on the election of a member of the Board of Governors and why we choose institutions when members of certain councils are out of office. Because that's what the law says. When you start conducting the procedure, you practically interrupt the mandate you gave him under the law, and it takes four or five years, and then you say we're replacing people. We do not replace people, we simply exercise the office of oversight of these institutions until the end of their term of office. It's our job to make a choice in accordance with the law. The law says – if the mandate expires on 14 November, then the procedure starts from the next day or from the day when a certain authority is established, because we had elections, for example, for some of the other commissions we have elected, and when it comes to the Board of Governors, it was November 14th, from 15th to 29th, they submitted requests from all parliamentary groups. So, the 28th candidate submitted his request and the proposal was submitted by the SNS, and that's all within the deadlines in accordance with the law. If we do not do so and do not want our institutions, which are within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament, to work, then we are choking the practical work of these institutions, and in your time these institutions have been selected for a year and a half, and two years after the term of office of individual members, so now you see who destroyed the institutions and who built them. As far as all the personnel we're talking about and how we don't have the personnel structure and how Spasovski is the worst director, even in your day he was the director and your then Serbian president was coming to this same Bor and boasting about such directors as he was. Thus, the degradation of institutions, such as the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, that nothing works, as the grey economy strengthens, so the results show. The tax charged on the basis of the activities of the Republic Public Revenue Administration shows the results in the budget, and in your time Mr. Miskovic used Belvil and the land under Belville, he did not pay a tax to anyone, and the Republic Public Revenue Administration should not have done an assessment of the land and capital, but was paid by those who bought those apartments through the loans of certain banks, which, in fact, from the budget of all Serbian citizens. That's what your policy looked like, and this is what our policy looks like today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12617	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12618	Thank you. I have a problem, or I understand better now why Minister Brnabic is here today. You are here for the first time today in the Assembly... (SNS Emissaries: No. )......................................................................................................... For the first time in the Assembly, you've explained these laws to move the deadlines. So other members of the government have already done that and they can't say what you told us now -- here, we have to now, seven years have passed, some job hasn't been done. Who sat in government for five of those seven years? Who was sitting? The ones you're sitting with in the government. That's what this is about. You can't say - I've been there for four months, I have nothing to do with it. So, the same majority chose your predecessor and minister before that. Okay, there's been some work in two years, whether it's done or not, we can, but you've had five more years to do it, so you failed. That's what this is about, Minister. I understand why Mr. Vujovic is not here. He came here three, four times and moved these deadlines in the Tax Administration Act and was uncomfortable with it, he said – we thought, but here he can't, you know, and now the man has raised his hands, because he can't justice because he can't anymore. This is the first time for you and now you say – we won't do it anymore. I don't believe you. Let me tell you right now, because it's not just about you, it's about the government, it's about the system of work, and it's about us today, in 2016, introducing these electronic services is devastating to all of us, because it's something that should have been done five or ten years ago. The European integrations you are talking about and trying to justify, they go the slowest in Serbia of all countries. Since 2012 when we received candidate membership, the slowest we have been going for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12619	Thank you, I thought you'd be replicating the MPs who mentioned you directly, but well, it doesn't matter. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12620	Honorable president, esteemed minister, fellow MPs. It is extremely interesting when some MPs, otherwise members of the former regime, question who is responsible for something in Serbia. In 2012 and 2014, Serbian citizens also said this year who is responsible for the robbery privatisation, who is responsible for firing hundreds of thousands of workers, who is responsible because Serbia is devastated, who is responsible for bringing citizens to poverty? When they talk about servants of large capital and talk about tycoons, I would ask at whose time tycoons and large capital ruled Serbia and who, if not their president, tycoons and large capital formed the government in 2008. On behalf of the Socialist Movement Group -- The People's Peasants' Party -- the United Peasant Party, I would fully agree with yesterday's finding by Minister Brnabic on the great importance of passing a law on evaluators of the value of immovableity. We all know that currently in Serbia the estimated value of immovable property is mostly inadequate, and an inadequate estimate of the value of immovableity makes access to sources of finance difficult to further develop, and all of this prevents economic growth that we need through economic and economic recovery. The biggest users of the appraiser services are, of course, banks. With an untrusted estimate of the value of the security funds, we come to a situation where the bank either does not want to grant a loan, or approves a loan at a higher interest rate, which increases the likelihood that such a loan will become irreparable during the payment period. In both cases, they have a direct impact on the difficult access to funding sources and interfere with the development of our economic activity. In addition, there has often been another problem in the previous period, which directly stemmed from the incorrect estimate of the value of the immovable property that is subject to security, which is a situation which requires a bank to demand from a client a significantly higher value of the mortgage compared to the amount of the loan. All of this is due to the fact that there is no complete and systematic infrastructure in Serbia for a quality and reliable evaluation of immovableity. Compared to now, the assessment of immovableity has been carried out by construction experts, appointed by the Ministry of Justice, but they have not always had the necessary knowledge of the value estimates of real estate, have not had the obligation of continuous professional training, nor have they officially adopted standards and methodology to manage. Due to non-standardized criteria, estimates of values for the same immovableity were often made at the same time and differed to 60%. All of this has often led to abuse when assessing the value of real estate, and what is most frightening is the fact that there was no regulatory body responsible for sanctioning the unprofessional and unethical behaviour of the assessor. The proposed law creates reliable national standards, provides expertise and adequate education for the assessors, but also creates uniform rules relating to the immovable market, which will contribute to maintaining financial stability, avoiding systemic risks, as the accuracy of the estimate of the value of immovable property, as I said, represents a significant element of the financial stability of the banking system, as well as improving access to finance and increased development of economic activity. As regards the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxation, I would refer to the proposal to abolish VAT refunding for the purchase of baby food and equipment, with an important note, that, as the Minister said, it is proposed that the right be abolished only on the day of application of the Financial Support Act for the Family with children who will receive these one-off payments. The announcements of these measures over the past few months have often been misused for day-to-day policy purposes and for picking up cheap political points, but by adopting the Financial Support Act with children who will arrange a one-time payment of funds will put an end to all malicious interpretations. I hope that it is clear to everyone now that only on the day of the start of these measures will the right to refund be abolished, and these changes will allow all parents to exercise the right to compensation because everyone, I repeat, will have this right. The advantage of such a social approach will also be the fact that from now on parents will not have to go through all these long-term procedures, their verification and approval by the Tax Administration, in order to refund the funds, but will mean when the newborn is reported to be and have the opportunity to apply for this one-time payment of the funds. I would also like to point out that the new law on funding and financial support for the family with children who will be adopted next year is also planning a significant increase in the number of women who will be entitled to maternity benefits. For the first time, it will be possible for mothers working under the Agreement on temporary and occasional jobs, as well as those owned by agricultural landowners, who carry out their own work, to have the right to compensation from the budget, as all other mothers have. By introducing these new categories that will have the right to compensation, the RS government will create the widest scope of this right, since these women have never before had the right to receive maternity compensation from the state. Finally, regarding the proposal for a law on the taking over of the liability of the HiP "Petrochemicals" Panchevo, according to the Business Company of the Oil Industry of Serbia, and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, I must conclude that we have all witnessed that during the last two decades the business of Petrochemy has taken place in non-economic conditions, and that this is why, and market disturbances and there has been a delay in the reconciliation of the obligations of suppliers, including NIS. Given the threatened financial position of Petrochemia, high exposure to suppliers, due to the economic conditions of past-term business, Petrochemia is unable to provide financial resources and reconciliation of commitments dating back to the previous period without jeopardising the current business and paying for current liabilities based on the purchase of primary gasoline and other raw materials. It was necessary for the majority owner, the Republic of Serbia, to provide financial resources to meet the obligations of Petrochemia to the NIS. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a programme of measures to meet obligations before Petrochemia according to NIS, based on the delivery of primary gasoline. That is why it is necessary to pass this special law, which will require the Republic of Serbia, as a public debt, to commit 105m euros. The adoption of this law will regulate the way, the process of reconciliation of the obligations of Petrochemy towards NIS, as well as the way of providing funds for these purposes. We believe that it is necessary to pass this law, respecting the need to provide "Petrochemicals" with the necessary support, not to endanger its normal and continuous work, but also to continue the process of reorganising this company according to its commitments. The importance of Petrochem also tells us that out of 10 Southeast European countries, with more than 65 million inhabitants, Petrochem, it is practically only available to operational capacities for the production of polyethylene and its own raw materials. With the track, the advantage of Petrochemy is even more pronounced, since there is no similar facility within a thousand kilometers. In Petrochem, more than 1,400 workers are working, waiting to find a solution to keep the factory working normally, as before the factory has no extra employees today and what everyone is doing with full steam. For the second year in a row, Petrochemy has been a positive business in progress. Thus, in the first nine months of this year, a profit of 40m euros has been achieved, and we sincerely hope that by the end of the year, it will get even more than 50m euros. The PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this, as well as other draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12621	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12622	Thank you, Chairman. Respected citizens of Serbia, God helps everyone. It is extremely important that we address you today in this humble moment at the 27th point of the agenda, which the ruling majority put in one place. I've heard of two in one and three in one, but for 27 in one, I haven't really heard that. President of the Assembly, Maja Gojkovic took five minutes to read what are the points of the agenda at all, and imagine, that from the opposition, I, in particular, as head of Parliament's Dveri Group, have 35 seconds per law to talk about him. So it's a picture of what your relationship is like as the ruling majority to parliament, in every way you're trying to stifle the opposition's voice, but of course, you're not going to succeed. What is the point of most of your demands, you have said it yourself, I thank you for it, it is good for the citizens of Serbia to hear it, the point is to bring the rules of the Republic of Serbia into line with the EU violently. So everything must be subject to EU standards far before we enter the EU, counting on it, that we will never enter the EU, and we must apply everything we receive by fax democracy as an order from Brussels. I'll start with the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We've already pointed out that as far as oil derivatives are concerned, prices in the coming year can only be higher. In this year when oil derivatives were reduced on the European market, you did not reduce them in Serbia, but of course, you are increasing excise duties. That's why these revenues of yours will be completely unreal here planned in the budget. A similar situation is with tobacco, as they collect cigarettes in Serbia from January 1st and every six months until they join the EU will collect, as it is another EU order, but will not fill the revenue side, because it will boost the grey market that will sell tobacco. For me, the most interesting thing about excise duties is the coffee market, where you do a scandalous thing, you also introduce excise duties for domestic coffee products producers, and in fact, the position of importers is even with the position of domestic producers, which is absolutely at the expense of domestic producers, and it's not your first time. Since 5 October 2000, you've been killing domestic producers, practically destroying domestic economy, because you're putting them into competition that they can't compete with, because they don't have that kind of subsidies and state support, as foreign companies have of their own countries. So here you have now decided to kill both domestic coffee producers and all those who work as their suppliers, subcontractors and everything else that is our domestic production, and it's much more important to us because that's where the real budget is filled through profit taxes. Of course, it is just interesting Customs Law in which you, under the further pressures of Serbia's entry into the EU, must coordinate everything and end all customs duties on imports of foreign goods and end up killing the domestic producer and domestic goods. One of the conditions for joining the EU is joining the World Trade Organisation. Entry into the World Trade Organisation is conditioned by liberalising our market and importing and transporting genetically modified food and seed. You should also admit to the citizens of Serbia, that this is also your plan to bring, at any cost, genetically modified food and seed, which is harmful to our health, environmental damage and especially damage to the production of healthy organic food, which can be the perspective of the food processing industry in Serbia. What, though, by this Customs Act, you're abolishing, that's very interesting, and I have to draw public attention to that. First of all, you remove what was a good provision, which is that the privilege of bringing in and importing new technology, wants to modernise their technology, so people want to import new machines to work better, they're free from taxes, or customs, and you end it. So you're killing a domestic producer who even had the opportunity to be freed from import customs, to expand existing production, to modernise production, to introduce new, or to modernise existing technology. That's another proof of how you kill domestic firms. Of course, you don't understand what's going on in the world today, the major geo-political changes in Europe and the world, and especially state interventionism, which is around the world. Many countries intervene in supporting their own banks, their own economy, only you from the SNS and the ruling regime, should not do so in Serbia because you are servants of the IMF, the World Bank, Brussels and Washington. We have one more thing here that we need to point out what else you're ending in Customs Law. You're removing those benefits that people with disabilities had. I can no longer import orthopedic and other aids without customs duties, I can no longer import passenger cars without customs, I can no longer have other equipment to perform various activities that they have been able to do. So, you, the most sensitive categories of our population, people with special needs, people with disabilities, are deprived of the customs privileges they have so far. Serbian citizens should know that, the SNS directly endangers the most sensitive group of our society, which concerns persons with disabilities, but, therefore, you will never endanger your IMF finances, you will never endanger foreign banks, which tear the skin from the back of Serbian citizens, but here, people with disabilities. Penalty policy, not precisely defined enough when corrupt goods are imported, when goods are of poor quality and everything other than the foreign import lobby here, there is no clear and precise criminal policy, because of course you protect the import lobby. You have an import lobby that must exist here at any cost, and a domestic producer, a domestic businessman and a farmer, of course, can do otherwise. The same thing is also the Export and Import Act of double-use goods. He's just talking about how you strangers put them first. Here's what you're doing, because foreign companies have complained that they're too long a procedure for importing double-use goods, it's an extremely sensitive commodity used for both civil and military purposes and it has to be specially controlled, you're finely terminating the mandatory control procedure for customs of double-use goods for a simple reason to go out to the foreign companies that do whatever they want here. We advise you, don't do that, even after you've left the ability to control it, make it mandatory for our inspection bodies to break into foreign companies that use dual-use goods and keep checking, if you've already lifted that check at customs. Believe it to me, and with a special enthusiasm, I want to pass on to you today, your favorite proposal for a service law. You know what is brilliant, the law in most of its provisions takes effect on the day of Serbia's EU accession. Well, that's genius. Since we will never join the EU, we are passing a law today that will never come into force. I wanted to suggest to you the honourable ministers something very constructive, that all the laws that you propose, which you must comply with with the EU, come into force only when we join the EU, and not that they blackmail us, pressure us, harass us, force us to bring all our legislations in line with the EU, and we will never enter the EU. The prime minister himself says there is no Serbian entry into the EU before 2025, what would we be harmonising our laws with the EU that blackmails us with each of these new laws? You can see he doesn't have to. This service law only comes into force when we join the EU. That's a great thing. So it will never come into force, we support such legal solutions. I am obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia the term I used, the college democracy. That's what you get when you get up in the morning, and then you get a fax from Brussels what you're supposed to do today. So that's how the college democracy that you accepted works, and it doesn't have to work like that. Here are some examples. Not all countries in Europe are in the EU, you know that, Mr. Minister. Do you know that not all countries in Europe are in the EU? You know it's not Norway, you know it's not Switzerland, you know it's not Iceland? I have to remind you of that. So there is life beyond the EU. Life is not just in the EU. And what did these smart countries, which are not in the EU, do? They did not want political integration with the EU. They didn't want to coordinate international policy, security policy, cultural policy, identity policy, but they harmonize economic relations. And I need to draw your attention that there is a European economic space and that there is an EFTA agreement that is made with the EU by non-EU countries. Here's a way to co-operate with the EU. Through the EFTA agreement and through Europe's economic space, not EU membership, where we are constantly being blackmailed on our way to the EU. So, when the Dvors are wondering and deciding we will act like these serious states, especially when we look at Switzerland, which for each agreement agrees bilaterally, there is no package, no imposition, no conditioning, we take only what answers us, which is in mutual interest, which is on an equal footing. This defends the national, state and economic interests of the state. In addition, to remind you of Iceland, which returned the ticket to the EU, threw out the IMF, went bankrupt and saved himself by no longer suffering blackmail from Brussels and not suffering blackmail from the IMF. Of course you in the Services Act want to also liberalize our market and leave it to foreigners. It's one of the measures you keep calling competition and free market. Well, our man can't be competitive with someone who's supported by so many foreign banks and so many foreign states. You support our domestic businessman and farmer first, so let's talk about the free market. There is no free market until our country supports our businessman and farmer. That's, I'd say, clear to everyone. Now let's move on to those most interesting parts of your travel infrastructure. Loans for Corridor 10, for Obrenovac, Surcin, for the restructuring of state-owned enterprises, a new debt of several hundredm euros to be owed by the Serbian citizens. There's one genius truth, the decision that Alexander Vukic makes when he takes loans from abroad. He immediately takes all the money, and a loan is paid in five, 10 or 15 years, when he will no longer be in power. Well, that's really great. You take the money, you spend it in an election campaign, you're in power for a few years, and then some of the next generations pay back the debts that the SNS makes. And what do you take that money for for these corridors? Will some SNS plague now finance instead of some DS plague, like Corridor 10? It's interesting this Corridor 10, because I'm interested in what's being financed by 35m euros in the first place. There is no detailed representation of the cost structure to justify borrowing. There's often no basic loan payment plan either. There are no basic conditions. There's a particular feature of this loan with the Chinese bank. The Chinese are protected as white bears, they import their technology, they work their companies, they pay back for their money. And where are we protected here? Why don't we finance the construction of the primary show roads and return those wars just like we do to the Chinese bank? So why do we pay all these fees, credit approvals, a payment of a penalty and everything else to a foreign bank, when the state can arrange it in its own system through additional printing of state money? So, the very simple thing that works everywhere in the world and all the serious economies of the world have evolved. You can, Minister, laugh, but you don't know that. Look at the U.S. Who are your role models. Every time there's a problem, what do the United States do? Well, they additionally print the dollar and pump it into their economy, and we can't additionally print the dinar and pump it into our economy. So the Serbs can't, and the Americans can. Well, that's not gonna work! So, normally we need to pump our money into our economy, not foreign businesses. Of course, the most interesting thing is Corridor 10, 275 million so far has been spent and you say it's not enough, and no one knows why it's not enough. Who made the wrong analysis? - Milutin Mrkonjic, perhaps? Velimir Ilic? Or maybe Alexander Vukic and Zorana Mihajlovic? Let's see who's responsible for the delay in the work on Corridor 10, for the overpayment of the work, for corruption, and for everything that you're now taking on a new loan, a new loan to complete Corridor 10. Well, when will someone in Serbia finally be responsible for all delays, for all corruption, for all thieving, for everything that characterizes the authorities from October 5, 2000 to the day, and that old DOS headed by DS and this new DOS headed by the SNS? Of course, the World Bank is particularly interesting to me, it sets the conditions to give you credit through the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Of course, conditions are the restructuring of our state-owned enterprises and, of course, privatisation. This is what you will have to do on the orders of the World Bank, sell the EPS, sell Telekom, Railways, Ways of Serbia, Serbia and everything else must be privatised and go into the hands of foreigners, because you serve the interests of the IMF and the World Bank, not domestic economic interests. What I particularly want to point out is that I find it extremely dear to the Law on Public Debt Regulation on the basis of outstanding foreign exchange savings. That's very interesting. First, who is this European Court of Human Rights? We never signed any protocol to acknowledge his authority. Why should we respect his decisions? Well, no one in Europe respects them, no one has yet ratified any protocol with the European Court of Human Rights. So don't cheat on the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, if you are already calling for the European Court of Human Rights to be heard, the same European Court of Human Rights will give you the verdict to return to the pensioners everything you have robbed them in the previous two years by reducing their pensions by 10%. On the same basis that you return to your old savings, you'll have to, gentlemen of the advances, return the pensioners you robbed over the past two years. True, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System is particularly likable, which is constantly, of course, delayed. The Prime Minister himself has admitted - none of the pay grade. The most educated people will continue to be paid under the average salary of Serbia by our educators. You don't have any analysis of the state of employees in the public sector, let's see who's party employees, see who's overweight, get the members of the SNS back to the SNS office, not to sit in our public enterprises without having a chair. So it's crucial that we see what's going on here, and I specifically appeal to the state of the army. More than 1,000 soldiers under contract have left Serbia's Army in the past two years. Do you realize what you're doing with this material status, this kind of attitude towards professionals in the military, police and security services? It's an inadmissible relationship and you need to urgently introduce payment classes. It must be known that security services, the military and the police must be the most privileged in this society and their material status must be the best. There's no talking here. Of course, the Law on Courts, which is extremely interesting to me, about the regulation of courts, although you do not mention any of the problems that we have pointed out to you: the corrupt contracts of courts with business banks, the party presidents of courts, the public prosecutor's office's elders were also party-set, 650 judges of SNS members still haven't dismembered, i.e. exited from the SNS, a blockage of the court accounts we were telling you about. Admit it, gentlemen ministers, your courts are on lockdown. In that sense, I still want to end the Law on Public Property. You can't write down the property of either the Republic or the province or the cities, and for five years you've been in power, gentlemen ministers. The Serbian Progressive Party has been in power for five years and has done nothing, but has therefore abolished the return of VAT on baby equipment and food. Do you know why? Well, she made the EU. Now it takes them a year, all 2017 it takes Slavica Djukić Dejanović and Aleksandra Vukic to understand how to fight the white plague. The Socialist Party of Serbia for 25 years in power, promoters for five years in power and have not yet figured out how to fight white plague and ask for another year to think about how to stop the white plague. Well, that's really, really genius. I think the Prime Minister has discovered these days that there is a problem of birth in Serbia, it is a big deal and a big discovery, as Slavica Djukic Dejanovic discovered that there is an abortion problem. I congratulate you, an extraordinary discovery, and I think there may be hope that one day you will start even the slightest fight against the white plague in the Serbian people. Not to mention the Immobilization Act, which was designed to protect banks. There's nowhere to protect the citizens, there's nowhere to stop a family home from being taken away by banks. What have you done so far? How many Serbian citizens are left without a family home based on false estimates of immovableity? For much less money, they had to sell their apartments to pay back some debts. Who protected them? Well, nobody, because you're protecting the IMF and foreign banks. That's why you're appointed to power. I suppose these immobilisers, as well as those managers in the buildings that will be forced to be members of the SNS, will, of course. Of course, as far as VAT is concerned, I also speak on behalf of 3450 Serbian accountants who are absolutely against the regulation on the form, content and method of keeping the VAT records and the form and contents of the VAT return check, because you are introducing new 13 tables and 155 balance positions. Finally, of course, as regards REM, which scandalously said it would not submit a report on participants' representation in the media elections in the previous campaign. So REM is now never worse party manager and regulatory body. In the history of multilaterals, REM now serves most the ruling party. Of course, as far as RTS is concerned, canceling the RTS tax and asking the director and editors-in-chief why, here, eight months after the elections held, no representative of Dveri could appear on any of the RTS shows, which means that the parliamentary opposition, that the parliamentary political option cannot appear on RTS, even though it has its voters and citizens of Serbia who voted for us and paid that subscription to show up at least a few seconds on RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12623	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Mr. Milojcic, you just pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a need to point to article 106 and the issue of keeping the agenda. In a few positions over these long 20 minutes, but from time to time, pretty fun as it takes us to allow ourselves a comfort, to have fun here, although I see some of us absolutely no problem at all. It was more than obvious why. There was talk of both the previous session and the previous session and the apartment and some judges, everything except what's on the agenda today, by the same one who complained in the first sentence, as he got up, complained that there was only a little time to say something about every law and then talked about everything except those laws. That was more than obvious. The other thing, Mr. Chairman, is about the 106th and the agenda again. I don't think we should let someone here use tactics to tell each other things that are completely opposite at the same time and so, theoretically, hang up the agenda, or say something that might have something to do with what we're discussing today, and it's saying total nebulises that are opposite to each other. For example, it opposes co-operation with the EU, wants to co-operate with other countries, while at the same time saying it opposes co-operation with China. Now what? I don't think it's acceptable for us to let him stick to the agenda, but he doesn't actually stick to the agenda, for example. He says completely opposite things. When it comes to loans, he says it's against borrowing, it's against banks, and then at the same time it's against getting favourable terms and paying off later. Totally nonses. Third thing, to tell us what it's like to support our domestic enterprises, etc. and then at the same time and against helping these companies and reviving the debt. So absolutely, amazing. I'm not asking, Mr. Chairman, for us to vote on these things, this is more than clear to anyone who hears and sees this. I'm just asking us to keep this matter in check on time. In time, before the European Court of Human Rights hears that a great expert, Bosko Cvorovic, said they do not exist. He'll give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12625	Mr. Orlic, as far as I understand it, you don't want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. You are absolutely right, Mr. Obradovic, had one broader context of looking at what is the topic, perhaps the broadest. I can't, unfortunately, follow everything, but that's why you're here as MPs to point out. Thank you. First, the replica, the basis for the replica, has MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative of the SNS, to mention the SNS. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it difficult to mention in just two minutes the untruths, ignorance and intricacies of a "Balkan spy". I really can't. Here, this is the bill. Here's one false thing. We have all heard that he said that this law removes privileges for people with disabilities, Article 216 that changes says – they are exempt from paying public taxes on persons with disabilities or an organisation with disabilities to subjects intended for education, employment or improving the social status of persons with disabilities. He didn't even read the law. He says this - why don't you finance pensions and salaries in the public sector with primary emissions. Well, he wants us back in ninety-three. He doesn't know what he's saying. He says the fuel didn't go cheap. Before the price of oil fell on the world market, the fuel was over 170 dinars. How much is it today? But, watch out, top of it all, meaning ignorance, untrueness, is that EU countries subsidize coffee producers. So where's that more? Does he know what he's saying? Eagle down. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12627	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12628	What Ilija Cvorovic would say, you may have the wrong number, but you got the one you were looking for. So, with great pleasure, I'm reporting for a roll call. Of course you've wiped out people with disabilities and left that completely inaccurate and undefined member that I've noticed, but you've wiped out the exact members where they're being released for orthopedic aids, where they're being released for passenger vehicles, where they're being released for private service equipment, all of which you've erased, to insert an undefined member, so you're going to determine what they can import without customs, I guess with a customs mob that nobody's been on the road for the last 26 years. Of course, you don't know shit about a primary show institute. Therefore, all the countries of the world that were developing economically developed developed, developed by the additional printing of state money which was strictly controlled, were not allowed any inflation that would be too large and not invested in consumption but exclusively in large infrastructure works and new employment. So, that's the primary show of strictly controlled state money we need. Mr. Arsic, these are the basics of the economy. No country in the world is developing, no country in the world that has developed has evolved without additional printing of state money, learn that already. The only thing we are forbidden is the additional printing of dinars to depend on the IMF, the World Bank and these foreign international funds that tear the skin off the back of Serbian citizens by new and new borrowing. There's no reason for that. We're supposed to organize ourselves inside that. And, let me tell you, in a personal conversation with Alexander Vukic, at consultations, I asked him for a primary show and he told me it was the best method of funding, but you can't do it. And you ask him if what I'm saying is true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12629	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. First in line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12630	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, well, I have no words, I can't describe one of these exhibits. Well, we already had the printing of money in 1992 and 1993. Well, you saw where we came from. They also printed these from 2008 to 2012, as they say. They caused inflation and dinar decline. America can do that because the dollar is the world's currency of payments, because when they print the dollar of another currency, they jump, they improve the export climate for their businesses. We can't do that. They're closing the imports. We can't do that. They can, they have a developed economy to do that. And, at the time of Broz's Yugoslavia, the dinars were being printed, so we had a situation that they were returning loans of three, four, five marks at the end of the repayment period, and the state justified the printing of money with new borrowings. We can't do that. We don't have the right to this luxury. We don't have an economy that can take it and everybody knows it here, just seems like a "Balkan spy" doesn't know. Customs exemptions, extend a list of tax and public taxes to disabled persons. They expand and will not be written for a name as previously written, but will be determined by a special sublaw. I don't understand that kind of scarcity. I also heard a story about Serbia not joining the EU before 2025. They'll come in, and I don't know what you have against the World Trade Organisation when Russia is a member of the World Trade Organisation. And don't defend Serbia with Mr. Ivan Pernar who threatens Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12631	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The floor has a representative of the promoter, National MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12632	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, for the work of the truth, by those who wanted to bring forth a series of lies here when it comes to accounting in general and the law and regulation that has been proposed that since New Year's Eve go when it comes to VAT applicants, all economic operators will have 154 items. I'll tell you right away, so it's an idea, an initiative that passed three months ago and which the minister simply adopted by the Association of Auditors and all of Serbia's accountants, that there will be no such request, because it is too ambitious for this moment in Serbia. Therefore, it will go gradually, not to spread here simply misinformation and to frighten Serbian citizens with something that does not exist. Secondly, when you talk about the state having to intervene with certain financial resources, for the sake of truth, and since this is also the subject of the Finance Committee, on each board we have a debate on this issue, the state intervenes, and therefore there are 11 enterprises that are in restructuring, i.e. strategically important in the principle of privatisation that the state directly finances from the budget. That is why we are struggling to find strategic partners and that is why Serbia's real economy is still operating within the limits of sustainability, and you should know that. But you should tell Ivan Pernar, a member of the Peasant Party of the Croatian Parliament, who simply comes here to the Assembly, visits and should say what steps we have made towards the EU in terms of European integration, but not because of Croatia and not because of the EU, but because of ourselves, in order to have a competitive economy, so that we can deal easily with companies both in the country and abroad and in the region. No wonder the whole region and everyone is looking at Serbia, looking at our economy first, and then some things change and adapt to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12633	Thank you. First of all, MP Vladimir Orlic, deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, to mention the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12634	This was based on the mention of the party. Yeah, by the way, every once in a while, it's an interesting circumstance for some of the insolent ones to start explaining here what's not good about us, then they hook up with both the party and the people's names and they don't even know what they've done anymore and how many replicas they've caused. This is directly based on the mention of the party. And I'm so glad there was that basis, just so we don't stay out of sight. And I wanted to say to this occasion that it's really nice and I totally understand why someone who keeps trying to challenge the replicas and to feel a little more important than it is, why he's talking about DOS again today. Of course, because I belong to the new DOS political family, because it's been admitted to a new big coalition, which is certainly something to be congratulated on, it's a huge success, of course. It's about the political size of the list. There's still only one small problem environment. We cannot locate, ladies and gentlemen, what is the political role or any role of some individuals in that new great coalition. We've already dealt with this issue in this room, and we've already established a few things. First, that whoever persistently causes replicas won't be, as much as he wants, a joint presidential candidate, however kindly he's offered around, he won't, because no one cuts him 2%. We've further concluded that she won't be head of election headquarters either, because she can't control herself, let alone organize others. Every time here, it challenges the replica, passes as Djosic on the show against Dr Martinovic, yet returns for more. So it's not for that either. We offered him the opportunity to be in the position of an ordinary pawn. That's what you really recognize talent for, but there's something not happy about it. What else could it be? I'm listening to this today, I'm thinking, there's gonna be some myths during that campaign, so there's gonna be room for a cultural-art program. If the new DOS is planning the position of the campaign singer on duty, I see excellent talent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12635	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Beard, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12636	Thank you, Chairman. As far as the primary show is concerned, let's make that clear again to representatives of the SNS who don't understand it. When is the additional printing of state money, Mr. Anticu, Mr. Nedimovic? You understand what I'm talking about. It can be printed for spending, for paying wages and pensions, for paying back debts, which some previous authorities did, and then it leads to hyperinflation and disaster. But it can be invested in large infrastructure works and mass new employment, and that leads to an increase in employment, an increase in the income tax that goes back to the budget and a full budget, and from that fill-up of the budget, you're actually returning as classic interest rates, that is, the credits of the war you're paying back, that you borrowed from the primary show. Why take it from the Chinese bank, you can take it from the National Bank of Serbia. It's a simple thing. You'll never put it into consumption, never to maintain social peace, never to pay and pension, but only to new employment. Serbian citizens are in a terrible need of new mass employment, which is why primary emissions are being given, as these funds are returning to the budget. It's so simple for Mr. Nedimovic, I don't explain to those who don't want to hear what I'm saying. As for Pernar, I did not make a historic reconciliation with Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, one of the largest conscientious Ustashas in Croatian political life. I didn't bring her flowers, I didn't hug her on the bridge, that's what Alexander Vukitch, the greatest son of our peoples and peoples did. As for the new DOS, there's no bigger DOS than SNS. Well, you took all the shots of the yellow, all the G17s plus. So Ivica Kojic, head of the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic is Vukic's chief of staff. And you're telling me about the new DOS. You're the new DOS, you're the top of the DOS. You are a disaster that began on October 5, 2000, leading to the peak of serving the interests of the IMF, Brussels, the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12637	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12638	Mr. Milicevic, I can partially understand what you're doing right now, but put an end to it, because this stops being a controversy between the two parties. The Serbian Parliament must not allow what we hear at this time. What will be the consequences of putting the president of Croatia in a context in which it is put here in controversy between the two parties? How will it affect a situation that is too tense and unsustainable anyway? Well, if someone's funny and wrong on the other side, that's not why we're even worse, is it? Believe me, I wouldn't feel at all comfortable if someone reminded me from Zagreb that the Chetnik Duke is the president of Serbia. Is that supposed to be the role of the Assembly, to throw gasoline into the fire, or are we going to shut it down? Take care of what the accompanying obligation is to you as someone who is chairing this session. Put an end to these party duels if they start to cause trouble to the whole country and our people in Croatia. I guess we need to bring down tensions, not pre-renewal madness, in which we're about to destroy what's left of it after all we've been through.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12639	Mr. Jovanovic, in part I understand you, you just didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to? (Kadomir Jovanovic, from town: 104 to 107.) Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Of course, because he cannot lose his attitude. ) I understand you, but you must also understand that I cannot predict what and what the MPs will talk about, and I do not want to deny the right to either the position or the opposition to the word or the right to the replica. But I agree with you that there must be a limit somewhere and we must close the circle of replicas. The word is given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SNS, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not interfere with the internal affairs of Croatia and they choose their own leadership, their own president. We have to accept that. It was not Alexander Vukic's choice to make Mrs Kitarovic the president of Croatia, but rather the choice of the Croatian people. So, because of this choice, we have to respect it for the reason why we want good relations with Croatia. We want good relations because, above all, they are the interests of the Republic of Serbia. But the thing with which Mr. Balkan spy will be seen and met is the matter of his personal nature. He doesn't have to. Alexander Wolfie has to. That's the difference between the two of them. The Prime Minister is the prime minister. When it comes to these big stories and about the primary show and about the policy of the state and around the European Court of Human Rights, so Serbia has judges there, only Mr. Balkan spy doesn't know, and he should know. The problem here is one of the most common demagogy. Is it a matter of the Serbian people who will be her president? Yes, it is. Does anyone have the right to interfere? There isn't. It will be decided by Serbian citizens, as they decided in 2012. So, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, it is to be the source of stability in this part of Europe. If there's a problem with the bridge, a problem with candy, a problem with a bouquet of flowers, then Mr. Eagle has fallen into a big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12641	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, another breach of the Rules of Procedure is under way. I'm advertising Article 103 concerning Article 107. Article 103(3) is a strange selection in rights, and Article 104 in replication, as well as in advertising rights of the Rules of Procedure. I advertised it on time. I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because when someone talks in the National Assembly, in the highest home, when someone talks about printing money without cover, it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly for me. It causes inflation, and in inflation, one loses money, the other earns money. That's how our tycoons came into existence. If anyone wants to support and refresh the new tycoons with national money, that the people lose everything, and that they gain everything, it is a violation of dignity for me. In that regard, for the Chapanese producer of nothing, about the dignity of the National Assembly, I have to order, we peasants know, money is not printed, money is earned, and then it is printed and distributed. It's never printed and distributed without production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12643	Mr. Risticevic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I thank you and apologize for not seeing you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have already given my colleague my word. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12644	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, with the hope that in the shortest time we will return to these points of the agenda that have brought us together here, you can see that there is indeed a representative number here and during the day our colleagues will come to participate in this debate, to give an argumentable contribution to the consideration of these significant issues that are in front of the MPs. I want to make a few points. It's just that I have a human and, let me say, a functional obligation to comment on a few questions. So this government of the Republic of Serbia in the past, let's say, two, two and a half years is trying to run a very responsible economic and fiscal policy. It is precisely in this function that the entire sets of laws that were in front of this parliament, which had, above all, been designed to heal Serbian public finances which, whether or not they wanted to accept it, were actually in a catastrophic state and threatened this country with a serious problem of meeting the basic obligations that we have towards the citizens of Serbia, according to budget categories that are simply such that we have to find a way to maintain them. One of the key elements of this was financial stability. One of the key elements was the deficit reduction. One of the key elements was to suppress inflation. In such an arrangement that we have offered Serbian citizens and twice received support in the elections, citizens' confidence in such a concept is gained, among other things, by the stability of domestic currency and by suppressing inflation, which has indeed left a strong one feeling for the citizens of Serbia because of all the problems we have had in the past due to the wars, sanctions that have been followed by this and such inflation. Therefore, when it comes to the investment cycle, a particular primary emission does not necessarily have to be bad and inflationary. But in a situation where the government and the state heal their public finances, it cannot be part of that and such package. For this very reason, we have put our responsibility to public finances, to curb deficits and curb inflation into priority, and I believe that we have passed the exam in this fight and indeed achieved excellent results. I need to comment on a few more questions that were part of this controversy. This government is trying to make a broad consensus and that in this consensus they can actually give their contribution to people who have energy, who are worthy, who are committed to their work and really make a serious contribution to our activities and work. I really need to mention Mr. Koic in that context. I absolutely don't care, in that sense, about the political genea, about any political relationship. It's a man who really makes a huge contribution to our work, and it just wouldn't be correct, human, or professional to not comment on it. On the third hand, one of the priorities of our policy is good relations in the region and I really think that this government led by Prime Minister Vukic over the past period was indeed a locomotive of regional trust. Although others gave 10% of what we gave, we in the region would have a far better situation, a far better position. We don't comment on the leaders of our neighbouring states. They were elected by the citizens of their states and ours is to cooperate with them. In this very sense, this government, the prime minister, has given a really large number of signals going that way. Flowers, it's a question of each of us individually. Flowers are a question of whether it's a gentleman or not. Please understand it that way. Politics is important, and whether someone is a gentleman or not, Mr. Obradovic, that's the question each of us needs to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12645	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication, Mr. Obradovic. We're going back to work. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12646	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will still be back on the subject, at 27 points of the agenda that we are discussing today. Some have said that it's a lot of points, that it's hard to read, and I have to tell you right now that it's about amendments and additions to the law, that it's about changes and additions, so not some fundamental changes, but those little changes that can be quickly overcome and understood. It is also a matter of harmonising with EU legislation. What is very important is that we are not proud that deadlines must be extended. There's also objective reasons, but there's a lot of subjective ones. Where are the objective reasons? One of the laws, such as the Law on the Payment System, is a fairly complex law, it's not easy to make it, there are a lot of coefficients to be agreed on, you need to talk to the social partners, you need to talk to the unions. All these things need to be brought into line and given such a law that will be applicable and that will be long-term. I think there's an excuse. There are reasons that are subjective. Most often we easily accept deadlines, give them lightly, often pass the law with some deadline aware of the fact that we will not respect it for sure. But that's also a question of our mentality. We're not just like that in the law, we're often in a lot of other things, when we finish building buildings and all that. But I hope that by working, we will change our mentality and that these changes will give us one different Serbia. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia advocates European perspectives, for the EU. No matter when we enter it, we need EU standards. That is why in these laws we are calling upon them, which is why we agree on these laws, because Serbian citizens will be better off, which will live better, and because this Serbia needs it, as it is. To be clear, we are not courting the citizens of Serbia, we have come here and we have received citizens' trust to do certain jobs. We found what we found. I won't speak for any authorities until 1990, 2000 and 2012. No, I'm gonna say that the citizens have given us confidence in this time and we're trying to solve all the problems we have in the best possible way. The citizens in the most honest way, the elections, will say what they think of us, whether we've done good or bad. Now, that's what I want to point out. So we're not courting, we're not even courting, but we'll work. Now, that's what our basic motive and motive are for working in this majority that we have and this trust that the citizens have given us. One more thing, I want to say first about these public media services laws. It's true, you're looking for a year's extension. It's very clear, it's a 150 dinar taxi and it's about the 4 billion that were planned in the budget, which we adopted a few days ago. We are aware of the fact that the Public Media Service, which I mean first of all RTS and RTS, must be financed from the tax. However, we also know the legal constraints, that it cannot be greater than 500 dinars, but the question is whether citizens in this Serbia can single out those funds and therefore we believe it is entirely justified that these two laws are changed, that we go a year, and that in that time we find some more acceptable solutions. Why? Well, you see, we passed these laws last year and the citizens of Serbia didn't object. Well, you know, 150 dinars, it's less than a pack of cigarettes, and yet we have a high-quality public service and a Radio Television of Serbia, and I especially stress the Radio Television of Vojvodina. So these are the services we need and need. That's why I want to point out that we're going to support it. There are a lot of laws here. I'm not going to talk about all the laws except for some, because there have been a lot of speeches during this debate, it's an amendment to the Law on Public Property. There really is a need to put order in this area. It's tragic, for many years, this country doesn't know where the owner is, what apartments he owns, what business premises and what agricultural land he owns. Here's the Minister of Agriculture, and he was surprised, we don't know how much state agricultural land we have. Of course, that's what individuals use, they get rich at the expense of the state. What's wrong with us trying to put order in this country? We admit it's going hard, it's going very hard, but we have to do something, we have to trade for a simple reason, because this country needs to know what it has and from that property and make money. The budget has to be filled, and that is exactly what we're going to do with this law, and not just by law, there's a lot of things that we need to do for the simple reason that we are who we are, we have some legacy that says that the state is "Alay-beying straw" and then it can take whatever it wants from it. It is my opinion that, in order to have a good country, a rich state, and even those who speak of Switzerland and other countries, we must give God to the state in order to get from the state. Of course, according to the laws and what the laws say about all that. It also changes capital market laws, small shareholders, everything I said and capital. What I want to point out is, it's the Excise Act. I'll be very honest here. Of course, this is not good news for those who are smokers. Excise will increase. That's clear, that's very open and honest. Why do we say that? Well, because we accept European standards, because it is known that excise duty on 1,000 pieces of cigarettes, most minimal in Europe is 90 euros, and in Serbia is 54 euros. Of course, you will immediately say – the property opportunities in Serbia are not great and thus we cannot bring these people, who are smokers, into a situation not to use some of their pleasure, someone will say vice, and someone will say pleasure. Personally, I think that this gradual alignment every six months, this coordination on the basis of an excise calendar from 2017-20 will give us the opportunity to adapt, above all, to countries where cigarettes are more expensive, and of course to countries in the European Union. Often this race between excises and the price of cigarettes resembles that famous race between Achilles and the turtle. It's pretty clear who wins here, and it's pretty clear who plays the part. But it is the fate of these people who are smokers and I hope that, for their health, they will do something, at least to reduce their enjoyment. There's also a talk here about coffee, about how the Additional Value Act is going to be used, but it's an improvement in everything we've got. Of course, in public they have caused a lot of attention to the changes and additions of the Tax Act to additional value. I think there have been a lot of speeches today, and the public of Serbia has been explained what has been done, what is obtained, what is better. As a Social Democrats, I always advocate that we should help those who do not, who are in a situation of social need, and those who have to pay full value. Why should we have someone who is rich, and in Serbia there are rich people, and it is good that there are rich people, they should bear the full price and kindergartens, and health services and everything else. Who can't help him, especially this sensitive area like having children, and that's what we really have to respect. Tax code. You know for a fact that we love not to respect this law, that we like to avoid certain obligations, and we must also stress that in 2016 at least we achieved good results. Hundreds of billion revenues were more in the 2016 budget. That's why we have the results in the fight against the black market, why we have the results in implementing tax laws. There's still a lot of problems. Problems that must be solved and problems that will surely be solved by tightening the criminal provisions, by broader scope, by spreading the leprosy of taxpayers, and that is something we need to fix. As Social Democrats, SDPS, I will say something about the HIP “Petrochemicals”. It says here we stand out for their debt of 105m euros. I would like to point out, immediately, that 105m euros we spend on reducing the debt of Petrochemia, these are the funds that were saved in 2016. These are the funds that we've saved through good work, good economic policy, and we're helping this company where there are a lot of employees and firms with perspective. I can tell you the next thing I know, it's the easiest thing for all the companies to close down. It's the easiest place to close all jobs. Then what do we do with these people? What's he gonna live on? One of the companies that has a perspective to help, which should be given the opportunity to stand on the green branch and to be privatised. It has its price, we pay that price, that price is paid by all Serbian citizens. There was also a lot of criticism about "Smedereva" and now we see what "Smederevo" Smederevo brings us. One such firm, in my deep confidence, is also Petrochemy, and it really deserves all this attention so that it is who it is and what it should be. What we have further, which is around the corridor. We have a speech here about two corridors, Corridor 10, which we need to finish. You know, the end of Corridor 10 and times E-763, are one of the most important matters of this government. If this historic government is going to remember something, which is that it's going to end these corridors, I'm not going to mention when they start, I'm not going to mention how much they cost, I'm not going to mention how many failures there were, but the Corridors are really going to end. In the previous three and a half years, 110 freeways have been opened, and we also opened 40.4 kilometers of highways this year and all the funds taken, of course, with rational consumption will be used to complete the corridor. There is something new, and to return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, we have clearly indicated project financing in the budget. Every Serbian citizen will see where these funds will go, how the funds will be used, and will surely see when these highways are open. That's why I've always stood up and I always insist that we finish the corridors, even if we don't do anything further, the corridors are something that will remain for future generations, of course, with rational consumption and all that we have. In the end, I won't talk anymore, there are a lot of laws on appraisers that mean improvement, and you know for a fact that we're masters here, too, that when we're supposed to pay taxes when we're selling something, we're significantly reducing the prices of what we're selling to the state to pay less. Now we're going to have licensed appraisers, we're going to have a clear structure of what's worth, in which part of the city, in which part of the village, in which part of our country. That's good. All the laws we do and what forces us and what we want as future EU members means that we are going to improve the law. The improvement is to make Serbia's citizens better, to use EU standards and, of course, to finish what we started. And I don't need to stress that the Social Democratic Party will vote for all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12647	Thank you, colleague Miatovic. Since there are no reports in the system, once again I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, want the word? Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: I. ) Mr. Sarovic, you are the deputy head of the parliamentary group, but authorized for this point in front of the SRS parliamentary club is Mr. Zoran Krasic. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: No, a mistake. )Until we make sure it's a mistake, I'll give the word to Nedji Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12648	I thank the chairman. In front of us, the MPs and citizens of Serbia are a significant Corps or set of legal acts we are discussing. What is, in any case, in the focus of attention, at least to the public of the Republic of Serbia, is to the greatest extent the Law on appraisals, i.e. the precise Law on value and immovableity evaluators. It is indeed a legal act that is trying to finally introduce order in the procedures where immovable property estimates are mandatory. No, because I would point out that it was now some sort of persuasive disorder or anarchy, on the contrary, but because it was for the first time a very important issue being resolved systemically. For this reason, I believe that the Ministers and Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have made a significant step forward with the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that a number of procedures, where immovableities have been treated, firstly in a proper manner, secondly in a way that merits objectivity, impartiality and professionalism, are precisely a requirement for evaluations to be conducted in this way. However, despite the extremely good and significant quality solutions in this law, I must point out to you, Mr. Government representatives, some parts of the law that I believe would have to be improved by quality, that they deserve attention in any case, especially in the case of the practical application of this law, given that, in practical application of this law, we are likely to come to certain problems, because vacuum spaces are being created. Why? In Article 3. The laws state the possibilities or circumstances when this law is applied and it is said to apply in the conclusion of the loan agreement, in determining the value of immovableity in the bankruptcy and sale of immovable property in the procedure outside court settlement. Dear fellow MPs and distinguished representatives of the ministry, do you think this is enough when it comes to the engagement of assessors and the assessment of immovableity in these situations alone? I am confident, and so is my SPS parliamentary group that because these assessments should be represented in court proceedings, litigation, non-paris, criminal and executive proceedings. The fact is that we have judicial skills that do this, but this law in its transitional and final provisions says that the application of this law will begin five months from the date of its adoption. On the other hand, the court experts have 18 months to pass the license exam and to proceed with the evaluation procedure. There's a time period that's kind of empty space, who's filling it up? Witches. Will they be able to do the job that the appraisers are supposed to do? On the other hand, the appraisers still need to be formed. We have yet to travel the path that they will go to the final goal, and the goal is to get a license. So here comes the question on the one hand, who in this time period will be able to cover this procedure and these jobs, on the other hand, in what circumstances? Secondly, the legislator forgot that the appraisers, we can say freely, are extremely significant in the procedures in which the provisions of the Company Act apply? Where an estimate of the value of the capital of a company, a business entity, occurs where companies are brought together, where there is a capital injection when a new member is introduced into a company, Neđo Jovanovic or Mr Mijatovic are partners of a company and it is possible that Mrs Jasmina wants to join the company as a member. He's putting in his stake, who's going to assess that stake if it's about immovableity? Of course, he'll be assessing an authorised appraiser. Under what conditions, under the conditions contained in the provisions of this law. Of course, this is a metaphorical concept to make it clear to the citizens what this law clearly lacks, and we could add to the amendments, at the end and amendments to the Committee of Resolution. Furthermore, the same law states that the evaluator is not expected until after obtaining the licence, and the licence is prescribed, i.e. the process of obtaining the licence is prescribed. However, there is one view here that can be confusing and in practical application to lead to problems, so it is said that the license is issued to a person who has at least three years of working experience in the evaluation business. Now the question is, where does he get three years of experience if he's now entering the license procedure? He could have gotten that experience as a licensed appraiser. Fortunately, we have them somewhere in Serbia's legal and economic system, but not under these conditions and this way. So, he could work for three years either as an assessor's assistant, or as an evaluator's associate or in a third way, but for three years he can only acquire under the prescribed conditions and conditions contained in this law. We come into a kind of paradox, it takes us three years, we don't, we don't know how to get them, but they're a condition for getting a license. I think that part should also be done to make the law more practical in terms of words that are more applicable. Furthermore, it is disputed when it is said that the licence cannot be issued if the person who claims to receive the licence is legally convicted of certain criminal acts that are systematised here, but the question is asked – why are no other crimes directly related to the dignity of the assessor to perform that function besides these crimes mentioned here are not introduced. In particular, why wasn't a criminal act of fraud introduced? Why wasn't there a crime of theft, robbery, robbery? It says here - financing terrorism is an anti-legal action disqualifying a person who claims to be an appraiser so he can get that license. If funding terrorism is such a degree of social danger and illegality, then there could be all other crimes with the same degree of anti-social hazard. They're not here. So, in that part, I really think that we should define exactly this standard in a way that implies achieving the ultimate goal, which is that dignity is contained in full capacity, that dignity is truly valued in the right way. Furthermore, what is in principle not defined in this law in some way is this so-called conflict of interest, which is nowhere here. Can an appraisal make estimates of immovableity if it is his blood relative in the right line of any degree of kinship, or in the lateral line, to the second degree of kinship? Is it possible for an evaluator to perform real estates if they are owned or owned by some other right of the person who is related to the evaluator in the Tabisan family, or in any other way is the person connected to the evaluator? My parliamentary group and I are personally views and we think it is inadmissible and it is inadmissible from the provisions of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, but it is not contained in the provisions of the Law. Furthermore, there is also a provision in this law concerning the fact that a disciplinary case will be conducted against the assessor, in which situations and with what sanctions. It's true that it's systematized and it's true that it's prescribed. However, what is missing is the lack of that very way of defining the procedure, defining the procedure, giving the possibility to defend the one against whom the procedure is being systematised in a legal way, to allow the complaint, if it is messy, unclear or incomplete, to be arranged, to leave the time limit for editing. That's what every procedural law defines, but unfortunately, it's not defined here. In any event, all other provisions of this law indicate that the evaluators now have one obligation, an obligation to overestimate education, an obligation of professional training, the obligation of continuous training, and, as long as they carry out the function of the evaluator, the obligation to ensure harmful actions which would cause harm and adverse consequences to third parties. I think it's a good trip. Of course, all that I've put forward implies a single well-intentioned suggestion that the law improves by quality, because there is no doubt there is room for that. I am convinced that this Assembly and all MPs will make a contribution to the real goal and achieve it, because our superior task is to pass laws that involve the highest degree of quality laws, in order to enable us to eliminate all possible problems in their practical application and in order for those to which the law, including this law, to experience this law as legal certainty. As for the other parts of the set of laws we're discussing, I'll start with the Public Sector Payments Act. The legislative act provides that the government will soon approach the adoption of the draft and then the draft legislation to regulate both labour legal status and salaries of public sector employees. This is something that is on one side of the government's obligation, and on the other hand something that citizens will experience as the best way to service their needs and meet their needs, and, above all, their basic constitutional right and need is the right to earn, existence and decent life. However, I would point out here to the resolution ministry a set of problems stemming from the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, through the Employment Restriction Regulation, to this day. At the level of local self-government, we now have a rather confusing situation, that we have laws that have imposed on us the obligation to engage a certain number of public sector executives, and that we cannot respect that obligation exactly under the provisions of laws that are current laws. I'll give you one example. According to the provisions of the Sports Act, every municipality, every city should have a sports inspector. I'm just talking like an example. This sports inspector, as an enforcer, may be in a position to exceed those 10% as an allowed number of persons employed under the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, or the Employment Restriction Regulation. Then how do you hire a sports inspector? How do you hire a person on other inspection jobs if we get into this situation? Local self-government has the problem and the problem needs to be solved. And it is being solved, fortunately, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is somehow trying to find solutions through the Commission that allows for a certain number of work engagements, i.e. obtaining working legal status through appropriate or adequate contractual relations, but I think that this solution must come to a final goal as soon as possible, that it has its epilogue in a positive sense, precisely because of the problem that local self-government suffers, and my local self-government from which I come. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Property, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I, as a representative of citizens, and primarily citizens who chose me from my local self-government of the city of Užica, must draw attention to one fact that no one can doubt. No local self-government, let me not exaggerate, very small number of local self-government, an extremely small number, among which my city did not respect the legal obligation. This legal obligation implies the application and registration of public property rights to local self-government, i.e. the city or municipality. Instead of sanctions against local self-government, which is unfortunately not even prescribed, we are giving new benefits and making a far higher degree of tolerance than it is so far and leaving a new deadline, so as to beg – please, please, cities, starting with Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Užica, Sremska Mitrovica, etc., let’s enter the public property, finally enter the public property. Well, we have an absolutely unorthodox cataclysm of immovableity, for reasons why legal obligations are not respected and because local self-governments do not do what they have to do, and that is to be clearly defined in the record of the Immobilization Department, which is and who is the head of public property rights, and who is not, in particular, who is not a local self-government unit. As regards the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where I will jointly comment on this with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law, it is good that one procedure is finally resolved in a proper manner, where, according to complaints, the first-degree body is not decided by the same authority, but decided by a fact-finding body, which is in a specific case by the Ministry of Finance. However, we in the SPS parliamentary group have one position that you do not view as critical, but in any case it is pragmatic, which is that we do not believe that absolute independence will be achieved if the second-degree procedure, i.e. the decision-making process, is passed on to the Ministry. Well, the finance ministry is part of the tax system. The finance ministry, after all, is the roof of what the tax system implies, because the tax administration is under the patronage of the Ministry of Finance. We can't talk about it then that he's an absolutely independent organ, an organ that decides by appeal. It's not. It's functionally not, but we want to believe it will be. Why? Because those who have decided so far in the second degree, unfortunately decided as it is in no way in the spirit of the principle of justice, nor in the spirit of the principle of justice and legal certainty for the parties in the tax procedure, or in the procedure relating to the customs procedure, where the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are applied accordingly. Why? Because the first-degree solution was decided by the second-degree body being the center of the tax administration, not the Ministry of Finance. Now we need to expect it to change, and we want to believe that it will really change. What is commendable and what needs to be raised to pedestal is on the one hand the contribution of the judiciary to solving one problem, and on the other hand the huge effort and decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to solve one problem. This is the problem of the debt of the company Hip-Petrochemija from Pančev to AD NIS. Here we have a classic kind of subbrogation or legal subrogation where the state takes over a debt that Petrochemy has towards NIS and, in accordance with the provisions of the law we're discussing, it settles that debt. Why did I say a huge contribution to the judiciary? For the simple reason that just part of the system and the elite system of justice, the economic judiciary, managed to bring Petrochemia back to life. For the sake of the truth and the proper notification of the citizens of this house and in order to go straight to the citizens, the following should be said, this same Petrochemy was to go bankrupt two years ago. The same Petrochemy was in front of the UPPR two years ago or ahead of an advanced reorganisation plan. This same Petrochemia could now remain in a virtually economic cemetery, buried. It is not, and it is not, because it is in the justice system, both by the first-degree court and by the Court of First Instance, that a decision has been made by the Court of First Instance to preserve the company. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the decision as something that has taken place in the domain of legal certainty and continued the procedure, and this process is the resuscitation of Petrochemia, the taking of debts, the repayment of those debts to the trustee, the NIS trustee and the possibility that Petrochem will finally stand on healthy feet solely for the reason that it is already showing profits. Therefore, not only from the SPS parliamentary group, but also from this entire home, this decision and this law should enjoy support. Finally, since my esteemed colleague Karic will comment on something that is very important, very good, this is what binds to the corridors, i.e. our travel infrastructure, which has already produced a large amount of results. Part of the highway from Preljin to LJiga significantly shortened the time of travel from the cities of western Serbia, i.e. the Zlatibor County to Belgrade. We are confident that this decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the law that we will surely adopt will bring about a new share from Surcin to Obrenovac and will see the light of day and get a positive epilogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12649	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12650	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, has been said a lot about the way this session was called. Of course, if this isn't a precedent, this is a rule of working here in parliament that lasts much longer than the mandate of you as ministers, but that rule is bad and needs to be changed. I'm not going to complain about such an extensive agenda, but I'm going to try to focus my debate on what I think is most important to us. I'd like to start by amending the Public Property Act. What exactly is this about? About the chronic incompetence of the state, the province, the local self-government, public enterprises to sign up as owners. That takes five years. It's got a big price on it. What's what we're missing here? A clear government plan and the way this plan will be resolved. Enough politics, the province is unable to enter, register its property for the last five years. My colleague now tells me she's finished, but we now claim something else with this law. Municipalities too, public enterprises. When will it be done? In what way? The easiest thing to say is that the problem is in the catastro. The problem is the abuse of some procedures. In fact, let's say, second-degree solutions wait a few years not because someone doesn't want to do it but because the sector in the ministry is covered with demands. I think there are over 50,000 at this point. The fact that procedures that regulate this segment of our everyday life are often so abused that they can't take it anymore, that the system can't take it anymore. I'll tell you one example. Imagine, a public company that has been slow with, say, the bankruptcy manager of the company that took over the case in the meantime, and now it's all back to the working council 40 years ago. The bankruptcy manager is blocking the catastra's appeal, which is why a public firm cannot be registered as owner. In the first degree, the catastre acts on the appeal, it refuses and goes to the ministry in the second degree. The ministry ranks in line with 50,000 similar procedures. Until the issue is resolved in a catastra, it is impossible to enter a public enterprise as owner. I face circumstances because the subject is important, because the public enterprise has the possibility to solve this problem through order is a solution. The moment a decision is reached, the bank manager is making a new complaint and a new complaint, because he only pays a tax of several thousand dinars. That's how it goes on forever. And here we are, changing the Public Property Act by extending to a six-year job that the state cannot do and which remains without a clear plan at the moment. How are we going to solve this? It's not just a matter of ownership that counts for some benefit that the state doesn't have at the moment. Imagine what a pity it is that someone who does not own the property does not act as the owner. Give us a plan to get us out of that living mud. There's no plan. It's a very important law. You were talking, Mr. SPS, about the appraisers. We have to be fair to each other. It is one of the professions in Serbia that has destroyed politics over the past few years. She got involved in something that politics couldn't get involved in. This led us to the paradox that today's appraisals of assets between other water and public or political care, since it is generally assumed that this property is much more valuable than the appraisal considers. I'll tell you how it's done today. There's a lot of talk about bankruptcy. Imagine how the assets of bankruptcy companies are estimated. The DT method and the liquidation method are combined. In this way today, the assets of bankruptcy companies are estimated. What does that lead to? It brings, it kills the market. It's an unsustainable business logic. Let's not go into private interests right now. Here, I'll tell you the example of "Minella", on this our energy system, on "Minella", on transformers and trafos produced by Mine" for the last 60 years, and he was great at it, outstanding. Absolutely competitive "Simensu" at a price that was much more competitive than the price "Concar" from Zagreb, six million euros transformer making "Simens", "Rade Končar" Zagreb, two million "Minel". Fantastic and you know it. We don't have that industry anymore, Mine no longer exists, went bankrupt. Minel was a good company, it was privatized. Any privatized company can fail, it can succeed, it can fail. It's very difficult to function on the market with a company that has a business profile like Mine, the biggest customer is your country, you can't say no, you have to have lagers. Lagers are expensive, stock market, etc. Anyway, the company failed. What happens after that? After that, there's an evaluation. The estimates were made in such a way that the square meter of the administrative building in Ripenj, due to the political pressures and the atmosphere that was created, was estimated at 800 euros and from 1939. The company was sold, sold whole six or seven million in 2006. The estimates that were subsequently made, and even today, you have bankrupt managers of all that. Only the administrative building was evaluated more than the company that was sold when it worked and had its production program, its market, its customers, all its own. In the bombing, Minel was working, doing business with Germany by sending his products to the border, the Germans were taking over at the border, in the bombing. We lost him. We didn't bring him back to life because politics destroyed the appraiser. It is very important that this law is passed, but it must be followed, and by the attitude of us MPs as people who do one job, that we do not push our fingers where they do not belong. Without that, there are no appraisers. What would anyone do? Why would he do that? What's the damage? Look at how many companies, some indicative assessment, conditionally accept that fact, because as we don't know how we're going to register our property, we can't estimate the value of everything that's in bankruptcy, but it's estimated to be at least two billion euros. For years, companies have been bankrupt. They do not come out of bankruptcy because bankruptcy managers, along with assessors, trustees' boards, courts, cannot resolve these issues in fear of a political rematch that will follow such a thing. We must in laws like this law, which is very important, publicly say that it was bad and withdraw from such behavior. Politicians must never comment on the assessor's actions again. That's impossible. We often hear that here in the debate – you bring it in because of some IMF, because of the World Bank, and because of some foreigners. If we behave like this, the best laws will be pointless. You mentioned some, you're absolutely right, some contradictions. If it takes three years of experience for someone to be an appraiser, that means we won't have any new appraisers for the next three years. If there's a difference in the deadlines for becoming an appraiser and in court experts, we're going to make ourselves a problem again. Please take care of that. What is our obligation to say, that an appraiser would be an appraiser, is not good enough law. It also requires an elementary political mind. Our position that we will withdraw politics from those segments where it does not belong, never again can politicians comment on the price set by the appraisers. If we act like that, we'll destroy everything. In the case of Minela, we need to learn that, and I can give you dozens more. Then what does that mean? Then whoever's interested in buying something, he's waiting for a second, a third, a fourth hand to sell. It's been asking for a while. Then when a third or fourth time nobody shows up as a customer, then everyone stops and says, "We can't sell it for 10% of what's estimated." You'll sell for as much as anyone's willing to pay. The evaluator should take care of it, not combine two methods just because in such a way they remove any responsibility in any future examination of what is and how it is done. You can't sell the company and then take her best year, historic best year since 25 or 30 years ago, and you say – this is the reference point from which we enter the business. And that's what's going on, just for the sake of politics. Good law, but let it be followed by a clear message from our politicians, we no longer enter it, and then people should be told. That's what people need to know clearly. It's very nice to speak. We'll print the money. What's a cover for that? Americans can do that. They've got cover for it. It can also be done by the European Central Bank. Mario Draghi can do 60 billion every month. They call it a quantitative discount. But it has its cover in real value. We, it's irresponsible to act like one. It's a very important question, that's what's been said here too, that's your pay grade. Come on, you realize that's impossible. We've got a no-employment policy. Sometimes he has to react urgently. That regulation is bad today. She did produce her own effect. It reduced the pressure on these public finances. The first results show up, we're running out of debt. But imagine the price to pay for it. We punish young people, capable, educated, only because we are unable to clear up with all those who receive money from this country. We're not able to see who's doing his job here, who's not doing his job, to establish basic criteria. It's okay to come to parliament, so don't ask the question – I'm sorry, how old you are, how many times you've been an MP, how much education you've had, but we've grown up in a country where some things have been respected. It was kind of a turn, you know, who could be company director, what kind of work experience it took to do something like that. You knew who could be the bank manager. You couldn't have been a bank manager without ten years of experience. That's what we need to start putting into the focus of our policy. They can't function pay grade. They're not just. Why should I be paid in the same way by a doctor who does his job well and by one who doesn't do his job? Secondly, it's an illusion to believe that paying classes save water. They don't, because as a rule, there's a much greater number of those who receive less wages than those who receive a large one. We often take on these excerpts, but that's essentially not the case. That's why we need to change the employment regulations, allow young, capable people to work here, if they want to. Don't lose good doctors, don't lose a lot of people we've invested in, who paid such a great price themselves by schooling here just because we can't clear that up. Let's see, we don't ask questions about who's from which party. I don't care if he's doing his job right. But let's separate work from work. It has to follow these changes of the law, the idea of it, the conversation about it, the attitude that it has to be done. There's no other way. We're not gonna get anywhere. This illusion of paying classes, of the idea that since we're doing the same job, we should be paid the same thing, it's wrong. I'm sorry. It's about quality. Don't let us pay for the doctor who treats us and the one who doesn't treat us the same way. I'm sorry to use doctors as an example, or any other profession. Let's quantify the result, the success, the knowledge, and pay for it, to pursue it. Very important, it is mentioned "Petrochemicals". Of course we can't let such an important system fail and that state bleeds and society bleeds and we pay a high price for it all. But the basic problem of Petrochemia, it has its own history. It's part of a system, it's been integrated, connected, known to be Petrochemy, Refinery, NIS. Wait, you raised your hands in 2008 for an interstate agreement between Russia and Serbia, which gave the Russians such great privileges as they do not have in their own country. So, "Gaspor" got from Serbia what it didn't get from Russia, came here, took the NIS, took the gas findings in Serbia, oil in Serbia, uncontrollably raised the exploitation of all that and said -- I don't care about "Rafineria", I don't care about Petrochemy, and then some negotiation took place, "Rafineria" being held, but what about Petrochemy? She doesn't need anyone. Now we need to be grateful that we should get some NIS gas price, but it is clear that there is a basic problem in the fact that the integrated system is broken and that it is very difficult to function independently, that it depends on trends in the market. These trends are such that he sometimes works in plus and he can't be able to produce as much as necessary. Sometimes, however, support is needed, since it is alone. I'd like you to handle this as soon as possible. It won't be easy at all, but Petrochem doesn't need to be dropped out of hand, and nobody's done it, neither have the governments done it before this one, but very well and frankly it has to be said what the problem is. It is an industry that is too expensive for such an organised state and one that is quite irresponsible to what has happened on other examples, which is strategic thinking and commitment that cannot be the victim because of someone's interest in the presidential campaign or in the realization of some current policy. That's the stuff I wanted to tell you. This is all else, as regards these customs duties and compliance with EU regulations and standards, of course it should be done. As regards the Commission's proposal for securities of value, in principle yes. By not being able to talk again about the Securities Commission without neglecting that capital market that was in total chaos because of the way policy and the fact that we practically stopped ourselves from developing, which was dynamic and that we could benefit much more from not using the period of this hyper-development of the world in the wrong way after 2000 and until 2008. Since then, the Commission has been in trouble, as is the market, our stock market and everything that is less or more regulated by these laws. The way companies are taken over should be regulated. I don't mind that, conduct, mandatory takeover after 75% of the property, etc. These are some questions where there's not much room for controversy, but there remains public property, a catastrophic mistake, a lack of a plan that will once put an end to all this. As far as the courts are concerned, you need to be fair and say what you want to say. So, the Justice Department, the Rules of Procedure. The law prescribed it to be transferred at the end of the year from the Ministry to the Council of Justice. When you look at that law, I'll tell you how many times it's been changed. So, just look at the dates: it was changed on 29 December 2010 for the same reason; it was changed on 30.12.2011; on 19 October 2011, the same reason; on November 20, 2013; on December 21, 2015, and here we are constantly moving it. We move those deadlines and refuse to transfer from the Ministry of Justice to the High Council of the judiciary some of the rights that we have previously established by law, then change the law yourself and say – we will not pass. The head of the SNS parliamentary group filed a constitutional appeal, and he is looking for something like that, asking to stay within the finance ministry and is now awaiting a constitutional court decision. You know what the decision will be and when it will arrive. So let's at least put an end to it and say, okay, the Ministry will do it, as it's done so far, to amend that law, not to do it every December, because it's obvious that every government refuses to do it. That wasn't even possible in 2009, that's not possible today, seven or eight years after that, that we know what it's really about. The Ministry of Finance wants to oversee the courts, control their work and not leave it to the judiciary, for example, that the Rules of Procedure are self-organising their work, but that the Ministry feels for some reason that the judiciary is not yet able to do so or that such a right should not be obtained because of the state's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12651	Mr. Jovanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12652	Article 104, with the right to answer questions where I was called. Although there are touching points in some discussions, I have to point to some facts that are obviously misread, which makes the reaction to the Rules of Procedure appropriate here. First of all, to go to the citizens as it should be, truthfully, here is not the problem of an appraiser when it comes to everything about bankruptcy, and it wasn't my topic of conversation and discussion. Here's the problem of how to carry out an adequate assessment when it comes to the property of the selling business entities. We've had privatisations since 2001, since 2002 and 2003 that have in fact created the effect we live in today. What's the economy like? Were the company's real estate estimates the way they were supposed to be then? No, they're not. Did companies buy for one dollar at the time? They did. How did we alienate the property? What happened to Magnochroma in the King? Did the Indian owners then take the company, rob it, suck everything out of it they could suck and leave? Who was estimating that capital? In what way? Therefore, what is important is to concentrate the story solely on what is related to the evaluation itself. An estimate under bankruptcy. We need to change the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy law, until the assessment changes, will remain as it is. As for Petrochemia, let us not go into politicization. The Petrochemy has been left to itself since 2000 and some years to this day. It's only now that she's getting her attention. It's only now that the court decisions are coming back to life. It's only now that he's coming back to life...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12653	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12654	I'm sorry. Let me just finish my sentence. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12655	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12656	There's only one thing to do now. It's been two minutes. Mr Jovanovic, you have called on Article 104, and Article 104 speaks of the right to replication, and of use, you are a kind of lawyer and you know the position of Article 104, Article 104, the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article are decided by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman. You didn't ask for the right to a replica, but you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. After you misused it, I will use Article 103 of Section 8, and I will take this time that you have used as a right to replication from the time of the parliamentary group. I'm sorry, but I have to do this, because I can't have double arches towards MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition. Mr Jovanovic, you have no basis for a replica, because Mr Jovanovic pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and on the violation of the Rules of Procedure you have no replica. You're in the system. [[Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I did not answer for the replica.]] What's the base of the call? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Can I say? Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12657	He doesn't mind if we continue the conversation like we just did, but this is kind of a turn. I volunteered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because your partner's colleague replicated to me by reacting to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12658	That's what I explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12659	Yeah. I would like to point to the fact that you gave him something like that, and now I have no right to a replica, although it is logical in itself and stems from what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12660	Do you want me to take two minutes away from the parliamentary group's time, as I did to my colleagues, Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12661	No, I don't. I'd rather accept the right to the replica absolutely, because I'm misread and none of what's been said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12662	Mr Jovanovic, a colleague, Nedo Jovanovic, pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what he abused and replicated. I took advantage of the right of Article 103th position 8 and took two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, because the right was misused. The basis for reporting cannot be your replica, because he pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure... (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: You punished someone for something he did. That's right. He's replicated me. And he's been taken two minutes. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the post: Now I can't answer his two minutes, and not even my two-minute replicas... You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know that very well. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12663	I hope that the chairman will be easier for me than for the SPS MPs. First of all, counterpart Nedimovic will comment on a part of Mr Jovanovic's presentation, so Mr Jovanovic will have the opportunity to comment again. In most of your address, I would like to comment on this segment of "Petrochemicals". Of course, the genealogy of the Petrochemy story is long. Not the comrades who built this factory accidentally built it where they built it, and it is clear that it was built because someone wisely estimated that it was integrated technologically with the Panchev oil refinery, and that is all doubtless a follow-up to facts and circumstances. I need the truth to work and for our citizens' sake to comment that the petrochemicals didn't start when Gaspromneft bought NIS. The Sunday "Petrochemicals" started a little earlier than the bombing when part of their technological process was destroyed and their, let's say, one of the most significant production lines, over the period, after which it was misjudged. So it's after 2000. And I must say, Mr Jovanovic, that when the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia was made, Petrochemy owed the oil industry of Serbia at that time, about 90m euros, plus the corresponding interest. Such a practice continued until 2014, meaning, to this government of the Republic of Serbia that made a strong turn. I don't know why Mr. Ambassador, the other Jovanovic, is hyperbolising the activities of the judicial authorities, I really don't understand it, because this is exactly one policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that has made a turnover in relation to Petrochemy and in relation to the oil industry of Serbia and dictated exactly one completely different picture, which says, "Rafineria" and "Petrochemicals" have to coordinate their production cycles, they have to throw themselves at the quantities of primary gasoline, the NIS delivers primary gasoline, not gas, Petrochemia. They have to make one technologically, to say, consensus about their production, because without each other they can't, as Petrochemy can't do without "Rafineria", believe me, not even "Rafineria" without Petrochemy, because I don't know what they're going to do with that primary gasoline in hundreds of thousands of tons, because it's impossible to do that with some serious prices. We've been taking this seriously. My ministry led these negotiations with great support from the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the entire government, and we managed to create a modus vendi for Petrochemy, which apparently yields results. The only year in which Petrochemy did not make a minus is exactly the year, 2015 and 2016. The only years in which she had a high ebid and a very good profit are 2015 and 2016. These are the years in which all key creditors have been reduced, and a good number of these debts have been paid. I will mention "Lukoil", several small bank suppliers, which were in the order of the claim. We're left with NIS debt, 254 million. I repeat, I said, in the time of this government of the Republic of Serbia, zero was made. This is just an old historical debt. We've been negotiating with NIS for a long time, and I think we've reached a good deal. Of those 254 million, 105 million in public debt, the rest, what interest is in write-off, and what is not interest in conversion. Along with those necessary factors that Petrochemy should get its credible future and one programme that will, without any dilemma, allow Petrochemy to end the investment cycle now, and has the prospect of never making such debts again. And just one of the key parameters for that is, what you were talking about and where we might disagree on the shade, but basically we're talking about the same thing, is this connection with "Rafineria". Part of this arrangement is a ten-year contract for the supply of Petrochemy with the necessary amounts of primary gasoline, in the first four years 3600,000 tonnes per year with a fixed price. It's a period in which an investment can be completed. The remainder defines the quantities and methodologies by which Petrochemy and NIS will further make their co-operation and define prices. This is really one of the capital issues, and I have to say one of the biggest successes of this government. People, we have saved and created a new future for a company that, on the one hand, employs nearly 1,500 people, and on the other hand, a really strategic economic branch of the Republic of Serbia. This is between 300 million and 400 million new goods, a new quality, which as a country we will produce, almost 80% of which goes into export. So it has a tremendous impact on our overall economy, on our external trade balances, on our overall economic activity. I believe we have done this, I repeat, one of the most important things for this country, for the future of this country. On the surface, if we take 105 million into public debt, but we make one firm a serious future, the Republic of Serbia will own the company when the conversions are over with about 75%. This company has a future, it has a value. We'll try to find a strategic partner, try to find someone who might even enter the equation, and pay this country a share of that value. And at the end of the day, we don't give these 105 million to anyone, but that 105 million tomorrow we use for either conversion into ownership or we'll be forced into some part of it for UPPR, precisely where this company in the finals now has to go through and subscribe to its finances, and come to zero. We're gonna have to cut it out, and for the rest of the trustees, we're gonna write it off. I repeat, a capital matter for this country's future and trust me on one of the things that I'm proudest of what this government has done and that I was part of the team that worked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12664	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, direct address, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12665	That gas, I meant ethylene and propylene, their products. Just a few facts, Mr Anticu. In 2004, the state decided to deal with Petrochemia by binding it to NIS, NIS set up its personnel there. From 2004 to 2008 the profit of NIS was equal to the losses of Petrochemia. I have no idea to say that the management that the Russians brought to NIS is not capable, they have, as far as I know, set up some personnel in Petrochemy who are doing very well in their work. Something else is here in the focus of what I want to say. If we had taken what the Russians took in 2008, because it suits them, you know what I'm talking about, and what might not be so lucrative, but it's part of that system, they'd be more serious about it. It is true that they signed a ten-year contract that without the NIS, Petrochemy has no future, that we now have to take care of the way we behave. If we had given business advantage, not politics, this would not have happened in the meantime. And that would not be the problem of Serbia, but would be the problem of a Russian state-owned company that would solve it in line with its interests. Petrochem needs to be preserved and allowed to work normally, because it is strategically important for this country and can work. Problems, you know what they're like. They're the result of the '90s, you mentioned bombings, lost markets. It's an expensive industry. We can only fantasize about creating some new facility with that predisposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12666	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12667	Thank you. You in this your now responding to my discussion are returning us to 2008. This government is not responsible for the privatisation period. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from town: Your party did. I'm sorry. For that period of privatisation, NIS, if you want to say SPS, and not even the SPS at that time was part of the ruling structure when contracts were signed, or the Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation. I could come with you now as an observer in that period, agree that it would be best if then Petrochemy was part of the arrangement. But since it isn't, we're talking about what's the order of things, and I'm saying that this government broke off that whirlwind that dragged Petrochemy into a debacle and total decay, cut into old iron, and now made it a serious company that's making a profit for two years. And with this cleanup of his finances, and with a 10-year contract like this, this is a really serious company, which has a serious future ahead of it. We will agree very quickly that Petrochemy was a full hit and one of the government's best activities. I forgot to comment on what you've been commenting on, regarding the "Minel" transformers. I can agree with you that it was really one representative company and it's just amazing that it was brought to that level, only a genius could ruin it, well, it doesn't have to be a genius, but even if it's a science doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12668	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few words regarding the public property exposure and the law governing the material of the evaluator of the value of immovable property. As far as public property is concerned, the fact is, there's a lot of problems and that if you don't have a basis, that represents property-legal relations, you can't do anything else big or big. What's a fact, for the last five years, is that a lot of local self-government has done its job. Why does there have to be a shift in this deadline? First of all, in 2014, a special regulation was adopted to record the immovableities, and then a special web application was made by the Property Directorate to which all these immovableities are entered. Special project i.e. The plan exists for 2017, where local self-government will be dealt with that part of the job. From our property management will work together with them and I hope that at least in that part this whole process will end. What represents a serious concern are public enterprises, where we have a lot of problems because of a bunch of heritage from the '60s, the '70s, the '80s, where there was no record of any right to property at all. As for this second part of the appraiser, I am absolutely grateful that you recognized the importance of this law and that you recognized the need to adopt it. We had one complete, I can't say, crazy system, but one system where you didn't know who was drinking anymore and who was paying. We had a bunch of estimates that allegedly worked for people who were capable, in different procedures, of assessing the value of real estate, about banking jobs. A particular problem is an assessment of the value in bankruptcy proceedings for one simple reason, because it always came down to what someone thought was worth something. That's where I absolutely agree with you. We have a bunch of so-called. Brownfield's investment that had the idea of being realized, but because someone thought it was worth a lot more than it is, we couldn't realize it. This law, in fact, puts an end to that path and finally determines the value that is marketable. The fact is that you had these two different methods, especially in a bankruptcy procedure with regard to the determination of the value of the assets. One of them was totally amazing to me. That's what we expect these assets to produce. It's actually a subjective feeling. Most often it was used as a tool and then you have complete irrationality regarding what is worth something on the market and what we expect. Then false notions are created that we can sell something for a much greater value than it is, and that's why we forced the investor into it. This is one of the attempts to regulate this matter. There's still room for work here, but the fact is that once we have to regulate this matter. There were such nebulous situations where one facility, which was worth 100,000 euros in real terms, was estimated by an estimated 700, 800,000 euros. Stocks were being made, because someone thought it was worth something, for the first row, for the second row, for the fifth row, there was no charge for the first row, not for the fifth one who thought it had enough value in a particular asset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12670	Thank you. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Jovanovic, you have no basis for replication now. Both Minister Antic and Minister Nedimovic, in the second part of their presentation, have mostly, how much I understand, agreeing with what you were talking about. So you really don't have a basis. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from town: Of course I have a basis. We're moving on. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the assembly majority by no means knows which path continues to rape the Rules of Procedure and rape the basic principles of democracy, because I really don't think that what you're doing can be called any other way. You filed a request two days ago for this session for the next day at 15.00 hours. Given that the deadlines under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the completion of the agenda and many other activities are 24 hours before the session is scheduled, this means that you have formally left only 10 minutes to propose these instructions. But you know yourself that it doesn't work that way, and while we were even informed, while the call came to parliamentary groups, those 10 minutes were up. This shows that you do not have a sincere desire to do quality work in the National Assembly and that in some normal, correct, fair and democratic atmosphere you are discussing laws that are on the agenda. The second grave violation of the Rules of Procedure is a violation of Article 157 which says that it is possible for the Assembly to decide on certain points of the agenda to be conducted in a united, or joint search, but only under certain conditions. The condition prescribed by the Rules of Procedure is that these draft laws are mutually conditional or that solutions are interrelated. And here, you'll notice, it talks exclusively about uniting the debates for certain draft laws. There is no business option for you to combine the discussion of a bill with, for example, a proposal for authentic interpretation either for the selection of members of the NBS Council or for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly Committee. I would really like to see a genius among you representatives of the ruling coalition, and you've all raised your hands to that bell, or voted for this brutal abuse, what does the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia have to do with, for example. an authentic interpretation of the Expropriation Act or what does it have to do with the resignation of the Attorney General in Tristenik with the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank? What's the connection? What is the conditionality of the solution to each other? She's gone. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Secret. ) Here, the representatives of the ruling coalition say there is, but I am waiting for this genius, this wise man who will stand up and explain to the public of Serbia what a secret link it is and in what way, in particular I insist, you are acts that have not put into this basket of laws, 27 different decisions, different acts. The only link that exists between them is that all are declared by the National Assembly. There's absolutely no other connection. Another abuse and the fact that the head of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic has succeeded in a magical way to cross those 27 points of the agenda and submit his proposal to unite the debate. This shows that this is how a certain communication is conducted between the one who schedules parliamentary groups from the majority, and you who chair the National Assembly sessions, firstly the president who schedules the session, must have absolutely the same attitude toward everyone. All 250 MPs must be equal. It's obvious they didn't. As far as the agenda is concerned, I'll go dot by point, and as far as I can, we'll see. The first law on which we declare ourselves is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. This law, namely the submission of this law, is in fact a testimony to another unfulfilled promise from the ruling coalition. You promised, on several occasions, that you would pass the Law on Public Sector Payments System, that you would introduce some pay classes, that you would not pay cleaning women in flight control and those, for example, in different ways. in the National Assembly, and it was also your legal obligation to do so. You are now saying that these laws will be passed by 1 July 2017. There's still about six months left. My question to you is, why do you restrict, given all the incompetence you have shown so far and that it is a regular matter for the Assembly to discuss the same laws, i.e. changes and additions three or four times, why did you not give yourself more time, two, three, five years? So when you arrive, you do it, but do not burden the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for another time. What happens if the words of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia are realized, so if these parliamentary elections are called, that he will once again show how good he is, how much the people love him, and if we wait again for the elections to be held first, so that the National Assembly can be established, as in this session, was the last day of the term? Well, if we wait two or three months to establish a new ruling majority again, here we are again in a situation where deadlines are broken and sessions are scheduled again where we will have the same agenda. The reasons for the law being passed, I think you should have written only one thing -- the reason for the law being passed is the passing of the law. If you were the law you had to pass in time, we wouldn't be doing this today. And then you say, for reasons of inability to pass the law within the foreseen deadline, i.e. by 1 January 2017. And why couldn't it? What are the reasons for the inability? What kind of inability has attacked you? Not at all. You could have at this session, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is as good as you say it is, that your services work as well as you say they work, so instead of this law, which you're postponing practically, you didn't pass the law you needed? You could have done that. This law has also been filed by an emergency procedure. That's the case with most of the laws we're considering today. Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly regulates the situation in which a law can be passed by emergency procedure and says Article 2. - an emergency procedure can pass a law governing issues and relations resulting from circumstances which could not be predicted, and the adoption of laws under emergency procedure could cause adverse effects on the life and health of people, the safety of the country, the work of organs and organisations, etc. Now, if there are reasons for urgency, you've been obliged to indicate who these are. What are these circumstances that you were unable to predict? What harm or adverse consequences for the lives and health of people will the safety of the state happen if there is no emergency procedure? You don't say that anywhere. You're just saying, we want an emergency procedure and we're still not going. And it's abuse. The second item of the agenda is the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services. And this law actually represents a new delay in the adoption of acts that you had to bring, and in fact, essentially, in my opinion, is your wish that RTS, because this law deals with funding RTS and RTTV, is not known which is so-called. The public service burns and less can be called public service, to keep them under control. How can someone be most effective in keeping an eye on each other? Here, the representatives of the ruling majority approve. By controlling money flows, by financing it directly from the budget, so it'll either be money or it won't be. It's not something you invented, but I'm surprised that you always like to whine about independence and promote independent media, independent organs, independent institutions, and on the other hand keep them on the rise by controlling money flows towards the same institutions. How is it possible that, first of all, the Prime Minister is complaining about some kind of inappropriate RTS relationship? If someone has to complain about their relationship, I think they're representatives of the SRS first. For years, RTS has been ignoring the SRS, not inviting representatives of the SRS to their shows, not inviting us to televised debates, calling analysts, calling quasi-analysts, calling representatives of the ruling coalition, three, four, five, as much as when it enters the studio, the Prime Minister visits whenever he wants, he edits the show, he asks questions, only he's not there, there are no Serbian radicals. It's the same situation on tv, identical. And what does independent public service mean? Who are they independent of? Of common sense, of professional ethics, of citizens whose resources are being spent? Who are they independent of? Why do you single out four billion dinars, and you take away from pensioners, so someone who boasts is independent, which leads, they say, independent editorial policy? Well, then let's get independent security and finance, let's try the market, see if that editorial policy of theirs goes through the market, if the citizens of Serbia are satisfied. If they're satisfied, they'll pay the subscription, not 150, they'll pay more. If they're not satisfied, they won't pay a dime. It's the right of Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, they experience independence so that they have the right to huge funds from the budget, from the pockets of Serbian citizens, but that in return no one can ask them any question about the way they function, that they are sacred cows, that you know about anyone who is paid from the Republic budget how much pay they have, but that you don't know about editors and editors-in-chiefs of RTS how much their receipts are. According to all we know, these receipts are measured by thousands and thousands of euros. We of the SRS will, of course, continue to oppose it. Now, you say the financial resources needed to enforce this law are four billion dinars. And this law goes according to an emergency procedure because of the need, he says, to remove circumstances that may question the work of public media services. What are the circumstances that surprised you? What happened? Has there been a flood in the last months, God forbid, a hurricane, an earthquake, what happened? That's why there's no public debate. The public debate has not been held, and you have had to state here the specific reasons why you are seeking to implement this law by an urgent procedure. The third draft law is the law amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of public media service fees, and it is also another unfulfilled promise by Alexander Vukic, who promised Serbian citizens to lift that notorious TV tax. You did it for a while, but then you returned very quickly. In terms of law-making, you say – starting with statistics on average earnings and pensions in the Republic of Serbia. Why did you choose only in this segment, to start with this official statistics and average earnings? Why don't you start when, for example, the price of electricity is from that data? Why don't you go, when it comes to the prices of other utility services? When the price is heating, you say – we must have a European electricity price. In order to have a European electricity price, the labour price must also be European. The costs of your system are above European, only because of thieving, only because of incompetence. Do you pay workers from those perpetrators without any professional training to the director, at European level? Of course not. How, then, do you think the price of electricity is evened out, not to mention that you will never equalise the income of citizens of Serbia and of EU citizens. Then you say – you start from the high initial cost of printing and distribution of accounts, which is why the price of this fee is 150 dinars. I ask you – are the different costs, initial costs, printing and distribution of accounts if the tax is 150 or if the tax is 500 dinars? No, but it's just a relatively much higher price, a share of the price of printing and distribution of accounts, if it's 150, but if it's 500. Which means that it is less meaningful to charge a small fee, and certainly to expose Serbian citizens to these costs and to pay these initial costs, as you say printing and distribution of accounts. You're saying that the disproportionately high costs of the initiation of the payment procedure are unpaid claims. What exactly does this represent? This represents the capitulation of the state. When you say: "The state does not pay for the disorderly payments of the prosecutor, because the courts are slow, because these costs are too long and because they are generally such as not to provide for the payment of claims. What is the message that you send to an individual with this kind of approach? It is an insult to all citizens of Serbia who are paying their bills neatly. For all citizens of Serbia who have paid their bills neatly over the past years and decades, so that you come and say – those who do not pay obligations to the state, you are smarter. Here, we're gonna reward them now, we're gonna write down the claims, we're gonna write down the interest. In this way, practically when the state writes off messy payments to interest, you give them interest-free credit. Then why would anyone in their right mind pay regular bills if they were not paid in a privileged position? That's what you do to these. Again, you said they should have editorial independence and institutional autonomy. I don't think it's fair to the citizens of Serbia, because whoever's on the budget has to answer to someone. The system of division of power does not mean absolute independence of any act of the government. In Serbia, the power-sharing system rests, therefore, in a division into legislative, administrative and judicial, but there is no absolute independence. Every part, every branch of government depends on the other. It must also depend on media public service or anyone else. Fourth law. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Rechanges and additions. I must say here, quite a papaziania made, if you look at what was done before and once again a practical delay in the entry of certain provisions into force. We've already had the beginning of this year on the agenda of this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12672	Thank you. You've wasted your time. You spent 20 minutes. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12673	It's me again, part Mr. Nedimovic. I will comment on these several allegations that my colleague Sarovic has regarding, above all, the way in which the fees for public media service and a whole set of other allegations are temporarily arranged, which, in my opinion, are far from accurate. First of all, I have to comment on this Assembly and the public. First of all, you did not understand in this explanation the allegations that speak of the integrity of making an account. These are allegations that give an argument why it is better to issue this account with an existing electricity bill. We say – since the electricity bill is already being printed, it is better to keep that item in that account than to print a new account, which would lead us to have an initial new cost. It's better that if we have any obligation or situation that we're running any procedure related to the collection of outstanding claims, that we do it in one place, not to separate those proceedings. That's one answer. Next answer. You're commenting on the price of electricity. I have to go before you and the citizens of Serbia with the information that the price of electricity in Serbia is the lowest in Europe. It is about 20% lower than in Macedonia, which is the first country, 40% lower than in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. The price of electricity, as much as it's not for comparison, but citizens need to know. For example, in the most developed countries, the EU is four, five times bigger than in Serbia. The price of electricity, for example in Denmark, Germany and other developed countries, is moving around about 30 euros per kilowatt hour. In Serbia, it's about six euro cents per kilowatt hour. That's absolutely accurate data. These are official data that are not my business or your presentations, but data that are being verified on European portals that monitor the price of electricity. I know it doesn't matter to the citizens of Serbia capitalally, because we see it compared to our standard, but the price of electricity, I repeat, is the lowest in Serbia in Europe. This electricity price has its own production price. We must, at least maintain the minimum of this EPS economy in order not to destroy this system, but we are strictly and strictly taking care of this very social situation of citizens. I believe that this government has led a very rigid policy in relation to the requirements and energy communities and other international financial institutions that require of the state, and has constantly raised and delayed our energy system by hand and by delaying and delaying any increase in electricity prices and in the future, that is, that growth must follow the economic power of our citizens and we, believe me, are absolutely strictly counting. Serbia has its own public media service. The law defined who the participants were in the public media service and what their defined obligations were, above all, about informing citizens. Of course, it is also related to cultural, educational content that is part of the law defined by their obligations. It has a certain price. Serbia's radio television is not commercial television. In its core, its essence, it primarily carries out this public action, and we, in accordance with the law, have an obligation to support such an informative and overall educational, cultural, scientific, religious programme and to co-finance it, i.e. in good work and finance it. There was a promise that TV subscription would be lifted. As you know, it has been done. At the end of 2015, this law defined it as a temporary measure of introducing a tax on public media services and it is indeed symbolic, lowest, it is 150 dinars per month. I need to tell you a few examples from the environment. In Croatia, it is 10.95 euros, in Slovenia 12.75 euros. We are indeed running a policy that, above all, in the interests of the Serbian citizens, makes the greatest effort to make the total cost to them the lowest possible. For this amount of tax and the part that we give out of the budget over one year, 380,218 minutes of the information programme, 178,537 minutes of the General Documentary Emissions Programme, documentary films, etc., etc. It's days, hours, days and weeks, months of different programs that we can agree on in some segment. Neither we in power are always thrilled with the way the public service conveys neither our work nor the way we are represented in certain, above all, political content. But it's a matter of our political assessment, our political assessment, sometimes our subjective sense. What is our legal obligation, we fulfill and fulfill it whether or not we like the RTS programme as a ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12674	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12675	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Since my colleague Brnabic is not here right now, I wanted to say a few things about the amendment of the Law on Public Sector Payments System, since it seemed to me, and I am not entirely sure if I heard you correctly. One claim has been made that one promise to pass the Public Sector Payments System Act has not been fulfilled. It was brought on 29 February 2016. The fact is, you need to work and you need to ask for a delay. The fact is, you need to work on other laws, but only correction. That was mentioned, but it doesn't matter. What I'm trying to say is why this extension of these deadlines is required. First of all, the Law on salary at the bar, the public debate is over. He'll be in the process very soon. It has been completed completely and it is one of the tools and therefore it has been requested to postpone this deadline. As for the Law on Public Service Employees, a task force has been formed, and this regulation is being drafted. I must say, as far as the public sector wage system is concerned, there has been a broad debate with the representatives of the Social-Economic Council and that there has been a significant convergence of views and I think it is very important to say how difficult this is. All those who once participated and worked on these jobs, we know how painful it will be, but preparedness exists by the Serbian government and it is expressed through the adoption of this roof law and through the laws that will be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12676	Thank you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) To the member exactly which one?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12677	Article 104 has been broken. And you know I had the right to a replica. Mr. Antic spoke directly to me, said I didn't understand how completely wrong my attitudes and everything. I think it's my turn to answer him. Mr. Antichu, you know that the communists... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12678	You're not in the system. This way you can only chat privately. You gave yourself a replica. There's no deal with the Rules of Procedure. All you said was that I broke Article 104 and you started talking to the minister and you're breaking up. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: You did not listen to me then. Yes, I listened very well. I always listen very closely to you. So you don't have the right to replicated by my assessment, Article 104(3). The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12679	Thank you, President. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, distinguished guests from the Republic Government. In this overall, I'd say, all sorts of things on the agenda, where almost 30 dots were found, I'm going to try to concentrate on just a few, as long as time allows. First of all, it was precisely on the last amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. First of all, I have to say that since last night, since this principle debate began, everyone, but almost everyone who is in the name of the promoter, and I think primarily of the representatives of the Republic government, has been deluding the public, speaking about this change of law, in such a way as to get the impression that we are talking about the content and essence of what needs to be carried out by this law, which is, in our opinion, an extremely important law on salaries of employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, to the extent that almost every medium that was last night and this morning informing citizens who had no reason, let's say, that they were following the debate, they couldn't understand that the only change of the law was the adoption of other laws that came from this law, and not that, in fact, this law of wages was regulated by any pay. Almost all media readings have been filled with fairy tales about how this sector will be settled and how it is a difficult and difficult job, how long it has been working on it, etc., absolutely ununderstandable that it is a matter of postponing the adoption of several laws to be derived from the Public Sector Payments System Act. Why is it problematic for us not just this delay? I must say, the public hearing was closed on December 7th. From December 7th to the day today, we have had at least three sessions of the National Assembly, including this one today, and we believe that it was absolutely enough time for the professional and professional staff to, as it were, be seriously addressed by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government by the end of the year by these legal regulations. Even if there is an objective reason, and we don't think there is, to delay the adoption of these laws, I say, I am potential for the Law on employee salaries in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, so, municipalities and cities, I must then note that the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government has already entered into force on December 1st. In fact, there's the biggest problem, because you have a vacuum gap, or you don't have a bill on the salaries of these employees, and the Employment Act came into effect at the beginning of this month. What does that mean? I will give you an example specifically for the AP Vojvodina Assembly, because in intensive communication with the employees there, I daily have direct knowledge that the political retribution that started after the change of power and spring elections is now turning into professional retribution, because the law that entered into force on December 1st allowed new elders, these arrivals, to degrade professional employees, for example. in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, equating people who have worked professionally and professionally for decades, for more than 20 years, for example. in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and now that the law that first demoted them or evend them with beginners cannot have adequate support in terms of salaries, i.e. earnings that would further value this difference in professional, professional and experienced work. These are the same workers as the workers and the employees, here, in this National Assembly, who, coming to work before us and leaving work after us, help us to do our job quality. These are professional, professional persons who have nothing to do with the political changes that have happened, but unfortunately, they are the first to feel these consequences now and do not know at all and, of course, have no trust, as we in LSV have no confidence, that by July this set of laws will be passed. In a conversation with the union representative of the province's administration, Minister Brnabic, who unfortunately is not present, but I am sure he will return and take the opportunity to give us additional information, mentioned the period February 2017, guaranteeing that these laws will be proposed until then and adopted. The delay of an additional four months, i.e. the date currently assumed from 1 July 2017, is only due to the fact that it is not true that it has been announced for a long time now, I would say, the upcoming elections will not stop life in this country and, worst of all, they are most reflected in those who work hard and work hard, both for the MPs and for the province's MPs, and it is clear that this delay is in direct connection with the upcoming elections. Another law that is very problematic for us is a law that has also been talked about a lot, which is the amendment and addition of the Public Property Act, which is being postponed for the second time, i.e. extends the deadline for autonomous provinces, units of local self-government to apply for a refund, I would say, my property. It has nothing to do with the state level, since this law is about to correct the injustice that was committed under the 1995 law when all property was state-owned, property of local self-government and property of autonomous provinces. The law, which was passed in 2011, i.e. this law, with the original intention of duration and application for a three-year period, has already been extended once and its application has expired, as far as I have seen, and I have seen well, since October, so two months ago. We two months later, today we only have before us, even if there was an intention, then you had to be more time-prepared, again extends for another year and gives opportunity to autonomous provinces and municipalities and cities to transfer their property to their name. I have to say right away, it's a fact that there would be no speculation, since they were in previous exhibitions, that the AP Vojvodina, through its Property Authority, had completed this job since the original deadline of three years, and had listed hundreds of properties and everything that should be owned, and that the problem was actually right in municipalities and cities, and I am absolutely behind the claim of incompetence of the mayor and president of municipalities, or local lawyers to write down that property. I'm going to give you an example of my town of Panchev, where I come from, and where we've been trying to get a lawyer to find out if there's even a list of the city's assets to be requested from the Republic Property Directorate. I am sure that there is no dilemma in the Republic Property Directorate whether or not something will be questionable from what is being tried to prove that it is owned by municipalities and cities and thus is relieved of that property and there are less costs involved in taking care of that property. I also can't understand not agreeing that maybe some municipalities and cities don't want to transfer property to themselves, or to take over their former assets, as I said in 1995, because the current law is very clear in that. Those who do not apply on time, within the time limit provided for by law, will be recorded by automated means, or confirmed as a Republic. I don't see anything disputed that you need to force someone to pursue your own property, and he hasn't done it in the past five years. The law, in doing so, is very clear. I know with confidence that there are such municipalities and cities that don't want to transfer their property, some property that's in the meantime state. Not because they don't think they need it, but because they're not able to, after so many years, with budgets that have already been damaged, local budgets, tend in an adequate way on the property. It's something that's certainly controversial for us, because you've been pulling someone's sleeve clearly to know that they either won't or can't use their rights, and if they haven't been able for five years or more than five years, I don't see that they'll be able to for the next year. The explanation that the regulation is a new one, so now there's an application special, it could have been done before, but it won't cure those who don't know how to do their job and, I say, first of all, local attorneys who should be able to write that local property. It doesn't take any field work, as we could also hear from some colleagues, so there are no people who are going to do it, they're not going to go to the fields to measure land or real estate. There are, of course, very clear and very understandable for every citizen the means of proving ownership of local property. On several occasions, during today’s debate, we heard a very difficult qualification that some things are shameful, that is, everything that someone has not done before is shameful. I will refer to one item of the agenda, just to draw attention to what is embarrassing for LSV, a point that has not been addressed so far, which is a point for candidates to choose, or a future member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or a new member to replace Professor Zoran Stojljković. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, which discussed two candidates, i.e. two proposals, and I appreciate that the logic of things requires that the candidate who will be voted, thanks to the assembly majority, will be the lady who is called Danica Marinkovic, because she was a candidate of the SNS, I have asked that no biography be found before the MPs, which is thus public, in the manner in which she was delivered to the members of the Administrative Committee, to try to be typed or to be identified in one appropriate way for someone who lists his multi-annual judicial function as a chief qualification, and yet someone who considers it all very justified to become a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee. However, I will ask those who have not done so far to see what the biography of Danica Marinkovic looks like. It was reduced, like this, to two sides, from which on the whole first side we find out, of course, when and where she was born, we find out which father she was born from, what her father was doing in World War II, which the medal took, where he was employed, where he was transferred, where he retired and died, of course. Then we find out which mother she was born of, so where her mother worked and where she retired and in what way. That's the whole first paragraph, almost half of the first page. In the next paragraph, we find out when she married, so who she married, so what's her husband's education, so where he worked as a director, where he worked as a secretary, so where he worked as a director again, so when he died, we find out with precision, in parentheses, of course, all the piety to the deceased, and where he worked for all that time. In the next paragraph, we learn that the daughter, wife and mother of Danica Marinkovic, has two sons. Then we have the first son's biography again, what he graduated from, where he got a job, where he got a job. Then we find out another son's biography, what he's graduated from, where he's employed, and exactly what his job is called. That's where the first page of her biography ends. What stands on the other side, which is in the National Assembly, in front of the MPs, who should choose such candidates is, I would say a very shrewd copy of her professional biography, but for me in one part asked, especially when it says, that during the war events in the AP KIM area, she had seen eye to eye on terrorist attacks, where the victims were members of police, military, refugees and civilians, I quote – all peoples and peoples, which means our fellow Albanian nationality. There is nothing more about it than the last qualification, from which we conclude that Danica Marinkovic, in fact as a key qualification, brought what was a key witness in The Hague court, to the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, in connection with the Račak case. Since all of this, of course, was not enough for me, especially this undermining, that she had made an insight into the civilians of all peoples and peoples, and I tried to ask myself a little bit about those organisations that had been for decades their work representative organisations, civil society, dedicated, to this particular area, that is, human rights violations, and I didn't, I have to say a little bit surprised when I received the appeal of a number of organisations, including the Autonomous Women's Centre, the Centre for Practical Policy, the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Serbia, the Human Rights Initiative, the Human Rights Committee, the Human Rights Committee, the "Jucom", the "Pescan", the "Peacetary Rights Fund", etc., which appeal to the MPs not to vote for Danica Marinkovic, for this function, because they have all evidence that she is not a worthy candidate for work in this independent body. If the MPs did not receive this appeal, of course I would pass it on to them, at the same time asking that in the next few days, they freely consider their own head and make decisions in accordance with their own safety, not by replacing the roles and becoming, they, the executive body of the executive body, or government, but that there would be someone who representing the citizens, in the name of whom they were elected, would think with their own head. In addition to this testimony, it is said in the verdicts given by the witness, Danica Marinkovic was assessed as unreliable and untrue, and for the simple reason that in her "professional work", she absolutely minimized the casualties of our Albanian nationalities. I'm talking about civilian victims, I'm talking about prisoners in Serbian prisons, I'm talking about all those who have to enjoy equal human rights, not that perpetrators, like Danica Marinkovic, are just the extended hand of the policy at the time. I hope that, on the basis of this appeal, all my colleagues will consider their own heads and examine, or delay the decision on this agenda point, taking into account not only unilateral testimony on the one hand, but all those why we still pay a high price at the level of international policy today. Of course, if the lustration had been carried out, Danica Marinkovic would have certainly been one of the persons, given that she was then a high judge, who would have also succumbed to at least the commission's work, or the work of the Committee, which this parliament was supposed to establish and carry out until the end, but unfortunately she did not, and would have been prevented from being a candidate for any such high and particularly judicial function, and not that we are rehabilitating her today practically. The cream on the cake is all the information with a certain Vacic, who became a consultant in the Republic government and I would really watch where this ship sails, expect that tomorrow...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12680	Thank you. You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12681	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12682	Yeah, you've been out of time a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12683	Thank you. Well, you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12684	Yeah. Milovan Krivokapić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12685	Article 107, if you can. Really, I can't believe this is how one discussion, one member, is being held in this session. He's talking about Danica Marinkovic, a woman who has really suffered one of the greatest burdens, because I'm from Kosovo and Metohija, so I can for sure, and I'm more competent to talk about a person who should be ashamed of everything she's said here so far. It's a shame. It's a shame to talk about a woman who put her head there, where someone shouldn't have put it, and I don't know what. I really don't know what made her talk about that woman like that. [[Marinika Tepic, from the place: Is this a replica?]] (Marinika Tepic, from town: Which member? ) According to Article 106, I said on time. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: This is very appropriate to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't enter the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12686	I didn't ask for your opinion at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12687	Danica Marinkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12688	Messenger, wait until they stop yelling at those who now shout when you speak, and they didn't yell when the previous messenger spoke. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What was she saying? What was she saying? Leave me alone. Wait, I'll give you back 15 seconds, it's not right for you, especially if you rarely answer. It really doesn't make sense. Let the MP go. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: he can talk whatever he wants.) I really don't need an assistant who's not my vice president. Wait a minute, I'll give you back time, just to let the MPs who need to shout when they hear a different opinion. Take it easy. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Is he authorized? ) Indecentness is never enough. So, we keep moving the border of decency, and every day I get more and more awkwardly surprised. Would you please stop it. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Would you like to hold a session? ) Respect the MP to finish his word, and then we'll tell the evaluation whether it's article 106 or not. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Why won't you let me speak? I'm off. Because you're yelling at me. This is neither the time nor the place, now for the discussion of the two of us. I apologize to you. I'm deeply sorry. Even though I'm trying to have a proper session. Here you go, MP. Sign up again, I'll give you time for all this. And explain 106 and 107, what you said at the beginning, but someone won't hear what you're talking about. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Let him say according to the Rules of Procedure. ) You have to sign up. I don't have you in the system yet. Respect the people, MPs from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, to say once a year, if they believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Have a little political and human tact. When someone hurts them to let them say something. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I would like to say the same. You will not say anything now until he finishes his work, and others who have raised the Rules of Procedure before you. I know that the theme of Kosovo and Metohija is extremely annoying. Here you go. Help the MP and insert the card if needed elsewhere. We have time, for Kosovo and Metohija we always have time. Change the unit. It's all for fun. When there are heavy charges for someone who lived there when it was the scariest, then it's not a joke. Now that the MP has something to say that dignity has been injured. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Let him say it.) He'd say he's too decent a man. He waited for you to yell and insult him. Here you go, MP. You're in the system now. Sit down and repeat, which hurts the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12689	Danica Marinkovic is an honest and honest woman with an impressive biography. Unfortunately, my predecessor who spoke counterproductively compared to what I was saying. She was in every place where she was supposed to come in and help the Serbian people, so listening to this very rarely, but through this I couldn't even get out of this room today without answering what we were listening to today. I just couldn't believe it. To tell you the truth, it doesn't surprise me, I've been hearing for 15, 20 years from the predecessor and similar to her who can count on her, about Kosovo and Metohija who would give it for a hand, I don't know what tomorrow, but thanks to Alexander Vukic and the government he runs, Kosovo will never be handed over, that you know. Never. You can touch Mr. Radulovic as much as you want, but one day you will remember these words that I have spoken to you. Be assured. This is what the people of Serbia listen to. He's the highest court. Thank you for clapping, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12690	Don't speak directly to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12691	With such an irony of patting, it's a shame. So I don't owe any longer, because I'm really shaken up, I've said enough, the smart guy will understand what I'm about to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12692	Thank you. You said item 107 for those who do not know what it means, so – no direct address is allowed at the session of the National Assembly and no offensive expressions are allowed, facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. Personally, I think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I should have reacted during a discussion of a Member who spoke in a very ugly way about the candidate who was proposed. Personally, I believe that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, and you will decide whether or not you will vote, I have had a difficult time with this discussion. Something that's even missed is that it's been said that the Albanians lived in our country and now they don't. Here you go. First come Orlic, then you and Marinika Tepic. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: There is no Orlic. I'm sorry, Markovic. If that's the point, then okay, if it's endlessly entertaining for you to get someone's last name wrong, then all right, then we're on our way and then this session is extremely fun. I think something was said today that's scary and I don't think anything's funny at all. You don't have to try to make me laugh. I don't think anything's funny at all. It's very hard for me. Here you go, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12693	Thank you. Members 106, 107 were injured, but several other members of the Rules of Procedure were also injured by reading a suspicious memo, several suspicious organizations which the previous speaker had read a little earlier. I have to say this isn't a trial, this is the National Assembly. There's no trial today to give me any judgments about any lustrations or similar nonsense we've just heard. Personally, I couldn't stand not to pick up when all the things that made my colleague Krikapic appear earlier were mentioned. But what I don't think anyone should go through is because of the injury of all citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of KIM. So that you today characterise Mrs Marinkovic in the way you characterized her, which has exceptional merits, which obviously bother them. For what? What's the matter with the Racak case? Is that why? I believe that the employer and those suspected NGOs to whom the lady is invited, as well as the foreigner belonging to the lady concerned, is probably the same. He probably ordered that he report today and read us that shameful letter she had read to us. I apologize today, although she should apologize for what she just said to all Serbian citizens, especially the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12694	Thank you. Do you want to vote on article 106? It's about the agenda point, but I didn't go into the contents. (Alexander Markovic, from the place: No. ) The word is Marko Djurisic, injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12695	Thank you, Mr President, for injuring Article 103 by the fact that the previous two MPs are completely contrary to the rules for the apportioning of the president's conduct and respect for the Rules of Procedure's rules of procedure, and have been given the right to discuss and replicate counterparts Tepic for what she said during her presentation. For this there are rules in this Assembly, this Rules of Procedure is written and you... Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Sit down, shame on you. )......................................................................................................... As chairman, you should sanction these guys in the O.R. on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12696	Ambassador, what did you say they were doing? Arlauchu? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. There's everything, this is terrible. Who's arlauche? Are you a man of arlauce? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Yes? You have a warning from me. You have a real warning. Shame on you. Funny? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. It's extremely funny. Is it extremely funny that you insult the Members of Parliament, that you say they are arlauuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu? That's what you're asking for, you can't go on. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Can you give me your word? No, you can't go on. You can take my shift, you can't go on. I won't let you talk to MPs like this. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I normally address those who arlaus. No, you don't speak culturally, you said that MPs are arlausing. Arlauchu animals, we've finished every kind of communication you and I have. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: sounds like this are coming to me.) There's a problem with you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I speak according to the Rules of Procedure. You need to keep an eye on the session. I am not interested in having an MP who says about other MPs do an arlaus, to conduct any kind of dialogue, you and I have nothing to talk about. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12697	Thank you. You have injured the first position of Members of 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly, because both I and my fellow Social Democrats in the League of Vojvodina represent the citizens who voted for us and represent their opinion and have hurt their dignity by allowing absolutely incorrect information, at the expense of what I said, to say. The complete personal data that I have read here, where we have heard about the candidate Danica Marinkovic as daughters, wives, or wives and mothers, are official biography sent to the MPs. I, at the Management Board's meeting, pointed out that my colleagues know who were with the SNS, that this is not going to happen in front of the MPs. I have called for biographies to be typed to be discussed in the National Assembly, so that we would not have such biographies in front of the MPs. Everyone who's been to the board of directors knows, I said publicly in the microphone, there's a record about it, so we don't get into this situation and that the candidate degrades himself even if he thinks, or most of them who are proposing him and who are going to vote, that other qualifications are crucial, not what he writes. Every citizen who enters the website Parliament.rs has this information available. Not just the MPs, this is the congregation work material we're discussing. As for the appeal, I only mentioned the appeal, I didn't even read it. What if I'd just read it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12698	He was a member of 107. You know that, you called yourself that. (Marinika Tepic, from the place: No, attitude 1.) So the 107 was twice already. I'll let everyone say what they want to say. The attitudes brought forth by the MPs before you do not apply to biography at all, we know that you and I and all those who have listened to your exposure. It's not a questionable biography. He proudly brought out what the closest of her family and the environment are, nothing is disputed. Something else has caused all these reactions and you know it well. If you think the 107th member is injured, we'll vote him three times in a row and see if he can do it at all. I won't even let anyone ever call on us to the Rules of Procedure again and again, and then he doesn't come to vote for that injury, but those who think he's not hurt his Rules of Procedure vote. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I answered first. ( ) Read paragraph 27. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12699	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27 has been injured. However, you yourself have said that you seem to have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and it would certainly have been related to Article 107, only it was 107, but whatever, because this is really scandalous. Those who have been cold all these years suffered and were not allowed to say anything before the war crimes court represented by some family of women who is a sociologist, not even a lawyer, I am talking about Natasa Kandic, and among other things, the humanitarian law fund is the signator of this petition against Danica Marinkovic, they found today to travel Danica Marinkovic. Why? Because the woman exposed the Mazrek brothers, the criminals who killed in the Kosovo mine and the Serbian Metohija and the woman who revealed all the truth about Račka. I have to admit that what's signed is the more reason I'm going to vote for Danica Marinkovic. It is equal to me whether she has signed the Kosovo Liberation Army or these 15 organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12700	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12701	Madam Chairman, I think the injured member of 108 is related to Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We read here and the biographies of various candidates, and one of the MPs also read the biography of candidate Danica Marinkovic, otherwise the prosecutor, otherwise the judge. I'm a little upset about what happened, because I know there was a crematorium in Kosovo, the only one after World War II, whose name was Klecka, in which a 12-year-old girl was burned because she was Serbian. When they asked the criminal who this judge was judging for why it was done, he only said because she was Serbian. The victims don't have a nation and everyone has to answer and every victim should have a convicted culprit for her death, and when those who tried war criminals attack why they tried, it's a new crime against the victim.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12702	Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 112, if I cannot otherwise establish order and return to the topic, I must set a break until order is established. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: You deliberately did not give me the word. Yes, I purposely establish order. (Radoslav Milojicic, from the place: I answered first, Djukanovic was not in the hall. ( b) Messenger, with that violence, nothing can be achieved by yelling at me. So, Article 112, and in accordance with Article 27, I'm going to run a session and take care of the order, a 30-minute break to establish order. The next speaker will be Sasa Radulovic, followed by Veroljub Arsic. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Here you go, MP Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12704	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, this little bit that's left in the O.R., today we're talking, we have one united agenda point with 27 sub-points, which are supposed to respect the rules, all 27 should practically be special points of the agenda and have a special discussion. In order to unite some points of the agenda, to unite the laws in a single debate, Article 157. The Rules of Procedure make it clear – The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditional or mutually linked. Of course, there is no connection or conditionality between the Public Sector Payments System Act, the Public Media Services Act, the Courts' Law, the Capital Market, the acquisition of stock companies, public property, excise duties, VAT. This reading is going on, isn't it? On the tax procedure and the tax administration, on taking over the obligations of Petrochemia, on the Customs Act, on the assessors of the value of immovableity, on the regulation of public debt of the SFRY, on the regulation of public debt of the Republic of Serbia in the name of unpaid foreign exchange savings, on the loan contract for the privileged buyer, on the loan agreement from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the termination of the role of the public prosecutor, on the election of members of the Board of Governors of the NB, on the selection of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the Council of the Competition Protection Board, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Here, I've been reading for two minutes, and I've only been reading briefly what's on the agenda, the REM Council, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the amendments of members and deputy members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. So this is all put into one item of the agenda and really the Assembly led to absurdity. So we simply don't have time to prepare ourselves, let alone submit amendments and discuss these points of the agenda. Here's why. I've got 20 minutes to expose. In those 20 minutes of these 27 agenda points, I practically have 45 seconds per agenda, of which I need about 10 seconds just to read the name of the point, let alone get into the essence of the debate. What's all this for? It serves to go through this discussion as a flow water heater, so that we don't essentially discuss anything. What's the problem with breaking the rules? When the Assembly breaks the rules, it sends a very bad message to the citizens that the rules are so arbitrary that they can be respected, that they can be disrespected, we have double arches, which I usually see here every day in the National Assembly. It's totally unacceptable to do this. Serious laws, serious things, this little time to prepare. Otherwise, the session is scheduled for an emergency procedure, there is a violation of Article 167 because there is no explanation for the urgent procedure under these laws and we got it on Wednesday, at 10 to 3, while the previous session, which was continued until late in the night, so Thursday morning there was a vote, so that this session would start at three o'clock yesterday and interrupt about seven o'clock, after which there could be no more amendments. So obviously, try, this is a session at a session where the ruling majority is trying to prevent the opposition from making any sense in the discussion. The ruling majority of preparations should not because they are simply there to vote for what the government is seeking. Of course, the Rules of Procedure violates the chairman who allows everything. Otherwise, the proposal itself should not have been put to the vote because the Rules of Procedure say what proposals can be found at the vote. This is an example of the collapse of the Parliament's dignity. This is an example of demeaning a congregation that cannot do its job. Now that we're going through all these laws, there are laws among them, let's say, that delay the entry into force of some provisions of the law where, of course, what was to be done in the previous year, two or more, and only deadlines are being moved. For example, the public sector salary issue, the AP issue, the municipalities, the move of deadlines from 2017 to mid- 2017, to 2018. Of course, to this day, we still don't have a list of public sector employees, we don't have clear registers where we can see exactly how many employees we have, how much work contracts, indefinitely, for a certain period of time, temporary and occasional jobs, labour contracts. We don't have any of that, and that's actually the main part of that party job that eats up the budget. But, on the other hand, let's say, we have excises on tobacco that are increasing. That's about ten percent increase in excise duty. Of course, if it's not a problem to raise some tax burden somewhere, if it's good for the citizens, but somewhere else they'd have to be reduced, it'd be tax reform, because if you're not cutting any taxes, and you're increasing in some places, it's just dragging your hand into citizens' pockets. Similarly, this extension of the provisional fees for the media service, as we know, the Prime Minister has promised to cancel the subscription. He canceled the subscription and introduced the fees. So it's not a neck, it's a neck. The same thing, practically for all citizens, was dragged into their pockets, the government did it in order to fill the budget and be able to boast of the deficit, i.e. by reducing deficits. So basically we have these excises on tobacco, we have fees for media service. These are all examples of an increase, we have no reduction anywhere. The problem with the budget, for which we just finished the debate ten days ago, is that it's a super-sick budget. So he takes from the citizens, takes from the economy, because the deficit is big, he needs to be reduced. On the other hand, there is nothing the government is doing to bring order, to reduce the waste of money that goes to the party parasite system that we all live in, and then additionally that money is given to foreign investors by various subsidies and is practically making such a further hole in the budget. So, the problem with what we're getting, and the problem for the citizens, is that the citizens get their hands in their pockets. That's what the government does. On the other hand, don't save anything and don't put in order, and we see it clearly from these shifts of deadlines in various laws, where virtually what should have been done has not been done, so the deadlines have to be moved. Here, let's say, I mentioned these salaries, courts, too. Now, we have a few good things here, for example, amending the Tax Procedure and Customs Act, because in these laws finally after a very long time, the second-degree body is no longer the tax administration or customs administration, but it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance, as it was meant to be. Of course, it is not a guarantee that the procedures will be better and that we will no longer have what was before, and that is the great arbitraryness of the tax administration in the second degree, the different arches for different taxpayers, but hopefully we will have within the Ministry of Finance. One archaic who will rule will be the same, meaning, for all citizens, for all legal persons, regardless of who they are and that in the same way they will all be treated together, because the problem in Serbia is different archaics, one applies to one group of people, and something completely different for a privileged minority that is mainly related to the political parties' peaks, so you have some who have to pay taxes and that they are cut off some dragon sentences, and others can pay nothing for years, and that's quite all right. Of course, this would also have to go to some transparency that we don't see here in the law, when these procedures are done, everything has to be transparent and clear, so that citizens can judge whether they're the same arches for everyone or they change depending on the situation. Then we have an example here of Petrochemy. There has been a lot of talk today, and the minister has been talking about Petrochemy, 105m euros, to repeat 105m euros in Serbia's debt to the NIS. That's about 13 billion dinars. To remind citizens, pensioners are taken about 20 billion dinars annually, so we can say in this case that 20 billion dinars have been removed from their pockets to give 13 billion dinars to the incompetent leadership of Petrochemy. Here's a reference to the being of restructuring, the UPPR is mentioned, a pre-prepared restructuring plan. When we look at the 2015 Petrochemy balance sheets, they are the last publicly available, 52 billion dinars are losses above capital, and 16 billion additional debts, so a total of 68 billion dinars is a debt of Petrochemy. We assume that the UPPR that is being done, which is not publicly available, will be something similar to RTB Bora, where the UPPR has been done, wiped out by a huge RTB Bora debt, and then the state, as we saw in the 2017 budget, has to continue to touch that incompetent director, 2.5 billion dinars are foreseen by the budget to give RTB Bora, so we expect a very similar thing called Petrochemy. The Minister of Agriculture, I think, was talking about these valuations of the value of the property, so let me tell you where the problem with these overestimated parts is. I suppose the minister was talking about these discounted cash flows, or the DNT method, or what our Prime Minister would say to the discounted cash fleet, since that must sound better than cash flows. The problem with UPRs, for example, at RTB Bora is absolutely visible, I guess also at Petrochemy, to justify UPPR, then overestimate its revenues, underestimating its expenditures, making it as if it would be after a perfect company, so that not all creditors, and I mentioned here 68 billion dinars of claims against Petrochemia were reduced to one payment plan that can never be realised, as is the case with RTB Bora. For example, this is an example of overestimated asset value, not privatization. In privatisation, we have a reverse procedure, underestimating the value of the property so that the set party buyers can buy property below the price. It's an example of privatization of the robbery that the state went through where property was underestimated. It's only overrated where they have these interests. For example, the state makes fictitious UPPRs, where it wants to show that it did something right, and practically I just pushed that debt a little later, so it comes back to us, say, through laws like "Petrochemicals". Otherwise, Petrochemy has short-term obligations. It's up to 66 billion dinars a year in the 2015 financial report. I tried to bring order there in 2013. We started with a ID card, and it started, and it stopped, and it was stopped by the Prime Minister. Practically, all these losses we have since then, and that was January when I resigned due to the interruption of reforms to date, are due to irresponsibility. Because if we'd done the job back then, we wouldn't have these debts today. Let's also show how much your debts actually affect your entire budget. This is what pensioners and legal persons and all who pay taxes in Serbia should know. In 2016, for the first 11 months, the total budget cost, budget implementation, on behalf of the guarantee that the state must pay to public enterprises that cannot pay the debts it has taken and to which the state has provided guarantees, is 35 billion dinars. Again, the pensioners were kidnapped 20, in the first 11 months 35 billion. These 35 will include these 13 billion more for Petrochemy, which means a total of 48 billion dinars. In 2015, according to these 30 billion guarantees, in 2014 13 billion. So a total of three previous years of 95 billion dinars to this kind of order. Therefore, do not tell us to introduce order, when it is obvious from the budget that it is not done. The deficit is reduced solely by raising the tax on citizens and businesses, kidnapping pensioners, teachers, doctors, nurses, workers in municipal enterprises, who really work in the field, in order to support all of those office employees of party staff who do nothing and receive more salaries than they do. So the deficit comes from these things. Then it finally reached into the pockets of all citizens and businesses, nothing was done at the introduction of order, as we can see in this law on "Petrochemicals". Citizens are expected to believe this leads somewhere forward. Well, it leads, of course, only to maintain a party parasite system that is the central problem of Serbia, which is why we're actually failing. So this is 13 billion dinars that go to that and this UPPR that is practically inconclusive, like many other UPPRs, because property, or cash flows, is overrated. What would be correct if this "Petrochemicals" law were to go along with it is a list of "Petrochemicals", an estimate of the value of assets, business plans, a plan from that UPPR that we expect, what expenditure we expect, what profit is expected, that 66 billion dinars of debt will be returned, let's just say for short-term liabilities, and then as part of all that we can vote here and say, "Petrochemicals" should stand on our feet, we've done market analysis, we've done business plan, we have a systematization of jobs, we know exactly what we're doing, and this is the cost that will no longer be repeated. Of course, none of it does. All we have is a law that requires that we give another 13 billion dinars. A similar situation is with RTB Bor, a similar situation is with all other public enterprises. There's no responsibility for what's going on, and responsibility is easy to determine, the rules are known, they can be set. Why won't the government do it? Why isn't the Prime Minister doing that? Because he has no interest, because if he had any interest, he would. Since it is not there, it would have to remove parasites from the public sector, and these are parties that have moved and run incompetent personnel run by these public enterprises. That would cost him a lot. So he can't do that. As for the Law on Public Property, where things are also delayed, I am pleased to hear from the minister that it is finally a list of assets. But we'd like to see what's collected in the meantime, put it on the web somewhere, so we can see what the state has. You'll all admit, it's incomprehensible that in 2016, at the end of 2016, we don't have a list of state assets. This is one of the things why I resigned in January 2014. When we talk about evaluators, this is the new law, of course it is necessary to introduce order into that profession. The law itself speaks of the establishment of an appraiser association where, interestingly, the government determines membership fees, talks about how some such and similar things will be licensed and then says there will also be national standards, code of ethics and rules of professional behaviour of a licensed assessor. This was left to the expert committee and the Ministry to determine. So the essence of the law is out of the law. That is, I have a law that will take fees for exams, take fees for licenses, make the whole structure, and the essence, the heart of the law, which are national standards, it is not in front of MPs, and it is not in front of Serbian citizens. This should be brought by the minister, he says well – the expert board has nine members, two candidates from the Ministry, one from the National Bank, six from the competition, without any criteria. So, when people who meet the elimination criteria of the law come forward, how we're going to rank them further – that's not what the law says. That, in fact, is cancer, how we rank people after the elimination criteria meet. So, the minister brings standards, and the expert board proposes it. The Minister delivers both the programme and the way the exams are passed, the Expert Committee proposes. There's nothing about it in the law. The problem with the appraisers depends on the situation. Where someone wants to sell it cheaply, and it was typically privatisation, then they set up the liquidation value, so they're undervalued to the maximum, so 50% of it goes away practically for a reason. It is, for example, a matter of privatisation of almost everything that happened in Serbia, the robbery privatisation that was carried out. The stockholders of C Market, Luke Belgrade, know this very well. In these estimates, for example, building land, which is the most important part of the property, was estimated to be zero. Which means that practically the entire robbery privatisation has come down to grabs for construction land, and not in property, but for the right use that was estimated to be zero in the books. On the other hand, let's say, when those who privatized are stocking that property, they use the TNT method, and they blow the value, so they have to participate in that and corrupt people from banks who take percentages on these loans to accept these bloated values in order to give them big loans, they take their ractory percentage and then complete the privatisation. We have this as an example everywhere in Serbia, wherever privatisation is carried out. To repeat, what we're doing today is unacceptable, this is a continuation of also irresponsibility... that the government is not doing its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12705	Thank you for spending your time on the discussion. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12706	I want to believe deeply, the citizens of Serbia know that when my predecessor talks about robbery privatisations, it has absolutely nothing to do with this government and this time. This is the period before 2000, and these are, colleagues Radulovic, now your partners with whom you take pictures on the family photo as some single opposition. You are with them in the political front against this government, and we agree only in the assessment that they have conducted a robbery privatisation. You mentioned your resignation several times. It's an anthological resignation, because you resigned the moment Parliament was disbanded and we were in the elections. So I couldn't stick to that formulation, and I should, because you mentioned that time limit, you treated that certain timeline around Petrochemy. I have to say, from the moment you left the Department of Economy's head, Petrochemy hasn't even made a dinar of debt. I am not a man of idolatry to say that you are responsible for the debt dinar created in Petrochemy, but I am telling you that Petrochemy has not since made a dinar of debt. You mention and stress very much to the citizens of Serbia 105 million, so you underline that – 105 million. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia. The "Petrochemicals" debt to NIS is 254 million. With the ability of this government, we are not returning the 254 million, but we are returning 105 million because we were able, credible partners who knew this well and quality to negotiate in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The methodology for NIS, when it comes to Petrochemy, is 254m euros in debt or some 32 billion in debt, 105m euros in public debt in 2019. This year, 20% and five six months of war by 16%. So that's a good negotiation, too. It's a multi-year repayment period. The interest is written off, and the rest is converted into the company's capital. The same rules apply to other creditors, so that from this process "Petrochemicals" will not come out with some bloated UPPR, but Petrochemia will come out with one financial zero for those old, historical debts and with a new capital structure in which the Republic of Serbia, whether directly or through its public enterprises, will have between 70% and 75% ownership, while NIS will have 20% ownership and Lukoil as a trustee of about 4%. We're doing all this to keep one of the key segments of the Serbian economy off both feet on the ground. I have to mention, Serbian citizens need to know what we're talking about. We are talking about a company that will make revenue of 300m euros in 2016. I hope that the citizens of Serbia are better than some who, by nature, should understand things, understand how important 300m euros are for our overall economic policy and for our overall economy, on the one hand. If we consider the fact that 77% of their production goes into export, then it's clear how much it affects our overall blood count, our foreign trade balance. In 2015, Petrochemy gained a profit of 21m euros. In 2016, and here we are for a few more days, the projected profit, which is now an exact profit of 59m euros. The ‘Petrochemical’ currently has a serious amount of funds in its account. This amount of funding is our guarantee for the realisation of a serious investment policy that is necessary for this important factory, the important industry for Serbia to return to that state and those technological processes it had until 1999 when it was destroyed in the bombing and when it was damaged. I repeat, we are proud of what we are doing with Petrochemy because Petrochemy is capitalal for our overall economy and economy and because we are ironing other people's debts through this, but it is the seriousness and responsibility of the state to unbound for who made these debts, and to repay the debts. I must say, because of the citizens of Serbia, by 2006, that debt was 26m euros, 14m euros were made in 2007, 29m euros in 2008, 25m euros in 2009, etc. In 2012, it was a peak of 47m euros and the only year in which Petrochemy did not make a single dinar, euros or dollars in debt is this very government that is now coming out bravely with a single credible programme and accepts responsibility and pays the obligations and debts that have been made before us by generations. I know that we of the opposition can't get any applause or bravo, but we expect elemental correctness, at least from people who know what we're talking about here today, because there really is one big responsibility in front of all of us, to be serious about the citizens of Serbia who sent us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12707	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12708	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the largest number of discussions that have been heard today, means each of Please allow me to participate in the session. [[Saša Radulovic, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] I can't, she's throwing [[Saša Radulovic, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12709	That's why they're getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12710	That's why they're getting it. Here, I'll give you later, Mr. Radulovich, right on the line. Now let me present my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12711	You'll be kind, you'll be the one to lie, because the goal is not to expose you. I know, but it's their way of political struggle not to let anyone say anything. Okay. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) The largest number of discussions related to what the agenda was I'm sorry, I'll pay you back all the time. [[Saša Radulovic, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] I'm really going to ask for the compensation for the mental pain that you're causing me with your behavior. I'm under a lot of stress. [[(Saša Radulović, from the place: You are the only one looking, give me the replica. I'm entitled to a replica.]] So, for days I've been under a lot of stress, I really need to make up for it. Stop yelling, sit, no replica, 104, attitude 3, no replica, are you satisfied? [[Saša Radulović, from the place: Give me a replica.]] (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: Your explanations are of no interest to anyone. The minister has sincered my views. And you've brought out a series of incorrect data, you've been responsible... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: There is no reason to be afraid. I'm afraid of you, frankly, when you ask me. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: There is nothing to be afraid of. Ambassador Radulovich, I am truly afraid of you. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Respect the Rules of Procedure, there is no reason to be afraid. Give me your word. Forced? Do I have to? Do I have to? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Not by force, writes in the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) It says, item 104. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Written - misreads his presentation by the MP of the people to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. Okay. The only thing I can give you is a warning at this point. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You must give the word. You're brutally violating... You continue with your conduct. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Brutally you break the rules. Give me your word, I'm entitled to Article 104.) (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: This is the terror I have been suffering for three minutes from Mr Radulovic. I know. I'm sorry, you'll start from scratch, just to see how far this goes. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Give me your word. Follow the rules. You can't make me give a word. I'd like you to behave. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Follow the rules. ) (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Follow the rules, kick him out. No, I can't throw him out. Take it easy. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Equal therapy for everyone. I just want to show the MP to let me run the session, nothing else. Can I run a session? (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) You cannot obtain a replica under Article 104(3). (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The minister has sincered my views. You mentioned many, so they didn't come here to threaten me. Okay, MP, can I have a session or are you definitely not gonna let me do that? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Give me your word. I'll give you another warning now, because I really don't know how to talk to you. We'll try again. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the morning session of my former regime colleague, the opposition mostly spent about five minutes complaining that their session agenda was too large and they couldn't discuss it, and they managed to submit about 1450 amendments to the bill. In addition to the criticism of the agenda, it seems that they had no arguments on the bill itself, and then they began to present the truths and in the biggest, I will focus my discussion precisely on disseminating them, not only for the sake of the truth, but also for not being able to scare more citizens of Serbia with the laws that we are making. A few minutes ago we heard that the VAT Act increased VAT for some products, I carefully read the law, and in the VAT Act we don't have any increase, imagine, but we even have a reduction in VAT for certain types of goods. The most beautiful and easy thing to say is that the state takes something away from someone to gain a certain political point and it doesn't matter if the law is right or wrong and it doesn't matter if the citizens benefit from it. One of his fellow MPs even said about VAT that when the bill is passed, benefits will be lifted for families with children and did not read the previous member of the law. He did not want to read because of his demagogy and symptoms, was Cvorovic of the "Balkan spy" that the law is applied when a special law on family and children is passed. He didn't want to mention it. Disinforms Serbian citizens to take those bills they have preserved so far and simply toss them away. It doesn't matter what they suffer because they may have listened to him, it's important to attack the government and Alexander Vukic. We have the law, let's say we listened to the same thing when it comes to this VAT, so one parliamentary group keeps fighting, says why don't you introduce baby food to be burdened with a particularly tax rate. You just know what, at a rate of 20%, the general rate was not brought by this government, neither was the previous one, nor was the 2012 government in which Prime Minister Ivica Dacic was in, but was brought by those who are now seeking to cut that same tax. That's why I'm going back to that time machine story, it seems to me they're having a problem with after-smart. One of my fellow MPs even mentioned the Privatisation Act, as privatisation was done, I agree, privatisation was a complete robbery, but I can't stand to be told by those who took part in such privatisation. He insults me. We mentioned, it can't be an estimate of capital based on the book value of assets, which they did. Contrary to even international accounting standards, because we didn't introduce them at the time, but they did it by law and passed the law. The one who casts it, it is not the law that this gentleman passed, but the gentlemen you address. This means that an object that has a real market value, let's say, 500 thousand euros and is 20 years old, its accounting value is how much – zero. And as a zero, she entered the privatisation catalog. The explanation of then very government minister, from the first DOS government, Mr Vlahovic was – well, that will determine the market. So then Bubalo said the same thing when he was minister in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia. But now I don't know what the patriots are looking for with them, when they destroyed three countries -- Serbia, when Kosovo declared independence, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I don't hang out with people like that. I choose company. But it was important to enter parliament and spread lies about the results of the government of Alexander Vukic – agree as much as possible, blame him as much as possible, in order to have votes as possible. It's not a good policy. There was a discussion that even the problem of introducing a special excise on coffee was. They say – domestic coffee producers will be ruined. Let's go who the domestic coffee producers are - all favorites of the former regime. Are they defending themselves? And that, beware, is the craziest sentence possible – that the countries of the European Union grant subsidies to coffee producers. So does coffee grow in the European Union? Well, then there's an ex-minister in the image of the bankruptcy director and the MP. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What is this, convincing the entire course of the session now? Take it easy, take it easy. They say this - the biggest problem is Petrochemy and 105m euros in debt to be paid to Petrochemy. No one said the debt was created during the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: When you were in the government, it says here. ) Then he was the Union of Communists, don't get any more. That's when you learned to walk. And no one will say, apart from Minister Antić, that today's Petrochemy is due to make a profit between 40 billion and 50 billion dinars, perhaps even more. But it doesn't matter. It is important to say that something is being kidnapped from Serbian citizens. When we talked about RTB Bor, no one will say that the biggest debt RTB Bor has to the banks that are in bankruptcy and who, while they were running power through the Deposit Insurance Agency, tried every possible way to collect those debts that the state no longer exists to give to the same mining and artillery base. Then we come up with a story about partocratism. Now we're going to analyze it a little bit. An MP comes out and says – Mr Spaskovski is a man whom no one can do anything, he is the director of the Serbian Progressive Party. As far as I know, Mr. Spaskovski, who is fighting for the survival of RTB Bor, was also the director of previous governments. How is it that he, while you were in power, was good and you held him in power, and now it's no good? When I look at all these discussions and all this talk about these laws, here we are, going back to these ID cards and the companies in the restructuring, the character and the ex-minister's work... Madam Chairman, warn the People's MP, he keeps throwing it away! I don't know, I think it's the fifth block from here. So, these ID cards are mentioned, and you know what the objective of these ID cards was, it was nice to know the exact value of the property and, in particular, where that property is, but the problem is that the law was supposed to be implemented by that ex minister, today's bankruptcy director and MP. With the property he would have written as a minister, he would have the exact state of every company, with the intention of talking about the same companies, about Mr. Radulovic, who had to go bankrupt under the new Banking Act, which was to be led by a certain Mr. Borvoje Petrovic, a bankruptcy manager, who even paid fines for illegal bankruptcy management, through the chamber system, because the Agency would have abolished and the state's supervision over the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises. And the whole story about the fight for votes is that all these companies that are in restructuring are being put into bankruptcy. They don't care about the citizens. They don't care about pensioners. They don't care about government employees. A 20% commission and reward should be reached by the bankruptcy manager and the sale of property and sale of property that costs several billion euros. So they attack why the state is trying to preserve it, to preserve both those employees and their families, just for the reason that someone can say that there are party personnel. When you look at the biographies of those who most attack this law, I would like at least one bankruptcy procedure conducted by the ex-minister and now the bankruptcy director and the MP to end at least one bankruptcy by suspending bankruptcy and returning to the company the registration it had in the APR. No, I don't. All the bankruptcy he ran ended exclusively by liquidating, selling out assets. Now, imagine if you were Prime Minister today, we could also say goodbye to Petrochemy, with RTB Bor, we could also say goodbye to First Five, Sartid, we were able to privatise it, it can't go into bankruptcy, but that's why Trajal would send Trajal into bankruptcy, he would also send "Tiger", not the car part, into bankruptcy and not add up. So that's their policy. And now they hide the facts from the citizens, that we can only live on what we earn and that these measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are buying time until the economy is able to start working, to have more employment, to have more factories, not to criticise for criticism and to get some more votes. Some MPs even complain why the state wants to make roads. So they say, "Print the money, which you raise up your loans." They want us back in 1993, 1994. That's their goal. At the time, workers received two or three marks of pay. They offer such a future to Serbia. So I can only divide into those who have done enough damage so they shouldn't even deal with politics anymore, those who would print money and those who would make a bankruptcy enterprise out of Serbia. I have no other division for those who do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia. I could criticise everything that's been said and lies for hours. One of the lies is, which is constantly being passed, which is that subsidies given to businesses are exclusively for foreign investors. First, whoever has a good investment and a good programme will receive funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then they deal with the bills, so they say -- some job pays 5,000 euros, and he pays the worker 200, 250 euros. Well, he needs to, so figure out how many months it takes to get the state to recover those funds. My people, it's economical so much political ignorance that I can't believe it. Every penny you give to a subsidy and you open a new job is returned to the state in a number of ways. Those ignorant take away only the digitron and calculate, those who know. And what does the one who gets paid do? Put it in a straw? No, he's going to spend it. He also earned a salary for a merchant. And he's gonna take some of that money. I made a pay from the goods manufacturer because someone's been eating the goods. He's earned a salary for someone's pension, but they don't want to take it. So, four or five times that one dinar you invest in a new job goes back to the state. That's why we don't have any dilemmas about supporting a set of these laws as much as anyone doesn't like them. But since I have three minutes left, I will also read Mrs. Danica Marinkovic's biography for the sake of the truth, as she was severely attacked and accused. As a judge of the District Court in Pristina, she was elected on July 1st 1984, where by May 31st 1994, she worked as an investigative judge in carrying out investigations in all cases independent of the type of crime, as well as in cases involving the crime of terrorism in the territory of the entire AP Kosovo and Metohija. Among the several cases in which she conducted the investigation, we point out the case of an illegal MUP where an investigation was carried out against 112 people of Albanian nationality, and the indictment was brought against 88 people and a judicial verdict was brought. She also conducted an investigation against two Albanian groups for a crime of terrorism. The actions were carried out in the entire territory of the autonomous province, which included 15 people, and now faces are listed, the verdict has become legal. Furthermore, in her biography, she is said to have conducted procedures regardless of the nationality of those who committed terrorist acts and regardless of what nationality it was that committed terrorist acts. I think that such a person should be appointed and there is no reason to be ashamed of any part of his biography, because she was working on preserving the legal order, protecting everyone, regardless of their religious and nationality. And, to attack her work is the same as I said, a re-enactment of crime against innocent civilians and members of the MUP who did their job. Who can't understand that, I'm asking a question, how can he represent the citizens who vote for him? God forbid it happened elsewhere and those same citizens were victims. What would it feel like then?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12713	Thank you. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. I apologize to you, MP, we have the same technical problem again. On the left, someone's yelling, I can't define who he is. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. [[Saša Radulovic, from the place: Nothing, means of replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12714	Just give me the time, please, give it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12715	I have to shut you down again, because 11 seconds you've been denied speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12716	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I will use the time available to refer to the Public Service Act. By definition, public service should be a service, a media service for all citizens. Some predecessors have already talked about the political colour of the public service, so I do not want to say anything about it, but I will stress that Bosniaks in Serbia do not have the opportunity to feel that the media public service is RTS and their service. They don't get a chance to have shows in their native language. They have no opportunity to present their own culture and their own values at the service. One of the sources of evil among men, communities and nations is mutual ignorance. Therefore, it was of paramount importance and interest, stability and peace of state and society that public media services were actually opportunities where we would meet each other in full authenticity and originality, in order to bring down prejudice and our mutual ignorances. In addition to state and social protection mechanisms, common mechanisms, a key mechanism and the basis of reconciliation policy is actually mutual knowledge and cultural exchange. Therefore, it is of paramount importance that we legally specify the obligation to allow all ethnic communities access to this service and to the media within this service. Which is actually guaranteed by the Constitution as well as by the Minority Rights Act. Likewise, the Islamic Community as a traditional institution representing Islam and Muslims has no opportunity to be represented at public service. Although this service is available to one group and to the Islamic community, which at all costs wants to impose on other Muslims as the only legal and legitimate, and we all know that this is not the case, and that the result is that more than 90% of Muslims, mosques, imams and other factors in the Islamic community have no opportunity to be presented at public service. Apparently there are some structures, I call it the Parastate. Paralyzing is the greatest danger to both the state and society. These are the structures very often in the administrations of bodies and institutions that have their own employers, their mentors and which usually do not change the elections but remain, but very often have a stronger influence than the ministers themselves, their assistants and other political structures. That is why I call on the competent ministry and the RTS editorial office, but also on us as legislators to remove this injustice and enable members of the Islamic community to experience public service as their institution through which they will present themselves and introduce themselves to others, and in fact to enable those structures and those ethnic communities that so far or especially in the past difficult times have not had the opportunity to feel equal in this country, to provide them with such an ambience in which they will be able to feel equal to the legal citizens and to develop as individuals and as collectives, build this society and be useful members of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12717	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12718	There's a big problem with this session, both methodological and content. What happens again? It is reiterated that someone wants to humiliate this parliament, all MPs in this parliament, not only the opposition, that someone wants to humiliate both ministers and other associates by having a session scheduled for 24 hours, with 27 laws and decisions, some of which were adopted at the government on the same day that the session was scheduled, December 21st, on December 19th, and some later. That's not what you came up with. I don't doubt the present ministers and their associates. You didn't come up with it. Neither did colleagues from the government, MPs from the government. It was designed by someone who has a very big hatred for everything that happens normally in this country, and probably he also signed a proposal for this assembly. So it's totally rude for someone to schedule a session with important legal proposals so that they don't just ask MPs again, but Serbian citizens as well as the minimum opportunity to get acquainted with the material. We didn't get the agenda yesterday, we got the coward's egg. It's a setup to make parliament look like what it looks like today, which is a break-in of demagogy from different sides. What's in the agenda? Postponing. They say it's urgent. The deadlines expire on December 31st. And even four months ago, you knew that December 31st was the last day of the year and that it was written in those laws. Who's to blame? Is it my fault that your associates warned you that the deadline was running out, that someone had told you – wait, wait, wait, it doesn't matter. We'll push it into parliament when I think of it, and there are those of me who will vote as soon as someone presses the bell. It's a methodology and it's a humiliation to you, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry about that. I'm also sorry about your fellow workers who probably do their job well, but they can't do it because of the evil that stands over Serbia. What else do we get? Of course, new charges, excises, VAT, a debt of about 205-206 million, which is seen at first glance, says, and how much is behind it? We are getting big announcements again -- Petrochemy will be resolved. I know, that's what we heard about Sartide three years ago when it was that genius leadership of Slovak-American, so it turns out the debts were raised by a hundred and a few million. The healing is seen at the end, when you see that the patient has gotten out of bed, not by talking – we will treat him best in the world and he will be the best possible. The “Petrochemical” God Father cannot save, as many other companies exist, only so that huge people's money can be poured into private pockets, not by those people who work there, but by many tycoons, those or these authorities, however, who take through these corpses, launder money, take money. The most expensive purchases, the world's highest prices are when the Serbian government or some public enterprise or some failed takeover buys something. Look at the purchases. The best job in the world is working with a losing company. Look at what it says. Finally, fellow MPs from across the street, who vote on the bell, get away from it. You're not that kind of people. He who drives you to do so says, "What, my people, will vote on the bell immediately?" He says they're the ones who think Mortadele is the Italian president, and that the Paris Paris Paris Paris Paris Paris Paris museum. No, you're not like that. Show us the rebellion. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Bring the barrels. ) I have placed the same amendment on all these laws of yours, which is called – it is deleted, and I recommend that you read it for each member. Who needs the barrels, the barrels will find him, and I'm proud of everything I've done while I've been in your position, in the position of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12719	The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12720	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, so whoever is talking about how sessions are scheduled with an unprecedented number of points, how they connect incompatibly, obviously did not even look at the agenda. Today I said, probably some were not even present, that most of the laws passed the Finance Committee, and what was not practically related to finance, but as it seemed in 2009, 2010 and 2011, shows that over 18 sessions had over 20 agenda points, seven sessions over 30 agenda points, and even one session had 94 agenda points, 5 May 2011. That's what I'm telling you, Madam President, that you haven't actually been wrong to call such a session, because this session also talked about the Law on PIO, the Law on Telecommunications, and military co-operation with Germany and Montenegro, and the Law on the Variety of Agricultural Plants, and the Law on the Protection of Pets, and the Law on Refugees, and the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means, and many other agreements that do not really have a point of contact, so that this session today shows one seriousness, the ultimate responsibility of all Serbian citizens, and when it comes to debt, first of all, every one should be realistic here towards the citizens of Serbia, as far as it is about his actions or not in charge of Serbian citizens, by calling on whether someone to pay bills or not to pay bills. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12721	Dear MP, the MP said "Mr. President". I can't give you a replica because you're not Mrs. President. She talked to me the whole time. She said several times "I'm talking to you, Madam President". The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are those who didn't serve the army who know how to make a left round. It's that they didn't serve the army, but they had a little bit of an argument. We farmers don't have a problem on the agenda. To us farmers, especially winemakers and winemakers would now be winter protection of vineyards from freezing and low temperatures, but apparently my colleague is a farmer only trying. He didn't even know how to make wine, and to save time, I'm going to say two things that are safe, that there's no greater evil than an evil mind, and it's another, and that's for sure, that whoever can't rule over himself can never rule over others again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12723	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12724	Thank you, Chairman. I want to use a few more things to say about some of the points of the agenda and to repeat that it is completely false that the points are connected and that they are all related to finance, because the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency or the selection of members of the REM Council certainly has nothing to do with finance, and the question is also many of these laws in which they are linked to finance. It would be good if these financial-related laws had some positive results for Serbian citizens' finances, but unfortunately that's not the case. Thus, the proposal for a tax on extra value does not bring any relief or reduction of the tax rate, for example, for equipment or food for babies, but talks about the elimination of the only relief that has been introduced when the tax on baby equipment and baby food has been refunded. A relief was introduced, so the citizens, and then it was represented as a great idea and a great project, had to collect bills and then once a year to submit them to the tax administration and get a refund. Now, I see the government criticises, that is, the ruling majority MPs criticise this solution as impractical, forgetting that it was they, that is, this ruling majority who made that solution. The biggest problem with all this is that there is no alternative, which we do not see any measures, we see, I repeat the announcement of the Financial Support Act to families with children, a law that has not been changed since 2009 and the announcement of some one-time assistance instead of this fund-refunding measure. But the Financial Support Act for families with children is much wider and should include not only the help of the child's birth, but the help throughout the life of the child and his growing up, because there are reasons for the reduced number of newborns in Serbia each year and for the negative growth that is growing year by year. When combined with the outflow of the population, 58,000 people who, according to an OECD estimate from Serbia, went only in 2015 to OECD countries should start all the alarms in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but there is no such thing. If you had passed such a law today, and by this procedure, so urgent, for two days, without being able to get to know the laws, so I would have voted not to look at them, for a law that has such an intention to prevent the outflow of the population, to support families that plan children, but it's not here. All he has to worry about is the budget, like some supreme deity we all have to worship. The budget should be the place where all the policies the government plans to lead in one year and we talked about when the budget was debated. And I see that one is used, for me an absolutely incredible argument, to justify this speed of calling the session, says – well, what do you complain about if you have submitted 1,400 amendments? Well, what is the aim of the ruling majority, not to submit any amendments, not to be discussed in the Assembly? Is that your idea of democracy? Is this what you want to bring down Serbia's parliament, to a place where, without discussion and without discussion, everything that comes from the Serbian government will be adopted, proposals that do not comply with the Rules of Procedure? I made a little joke about the time machine here in the principle debate, because we have a proposal for a board that's totally messy, because someone doesn't know how to do their job. Instead of talking about what's the reason to make mistakes in the state administration, which is why there are rows, specifically for replacing health books, we get an answer – we have offered to have electronic people sign up. But that didn't make any sense. Rows still exist. It is the government's obligation to disappear that order, to find a way to make order go away, and eventually those books that people end up getting have any purpose. I don't know if you've seen those books or what people are doing with them today, the ones that have them. They've got a hand-painted cardboard number because the system's not working. The system's not working. What do we use these e-books if they can't be used and why are people harassing to stand in line to get them, if they can't achieve any quality based on what they're getting? That's the biggest problem of this government. You are talking about some of the obligations towards approaching the EU. Well, don't just fill in the form. Let's talk about the essence, let's talk about what measures are in these frameworks that exist can be taken. Why is food and baby equipment cheaper in all countries of the environment compared to Serbia, especially in those in the EU? Because they have more responsible governments there, governments that care about the future of their country. Here, no, here we're just talking about the budget and the fight, here, today I see the current fight against the gray economy. All that we've indicated here is that there is no and that the result of the increase in the grey economy, only now that the IMF tells you that the grey economy is increasing, is you're getting ready to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12725	Time. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12726	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, this is what I was talking about in my presentation. All he reads is what suits him and says that we're removing the protection that exists to families with children. I'll read Article 14 paragraph 2. – the provisions of Article 9 of this Act will apply from the date of application of the Financial Support Act for the Family with Children, which regulates the single payment of money in the name of the purchase of baby equipment. So it stays until a new law is passed. It doesn't matter what, say, the reduced tax rate on heating is to protect the environment. It doesn't matter, it's not tax relief. The biggest problem is health books. Now, if that's the biggest problem, let's talk about the problems they were having while they were running power. When they talk about VAT, as far as I know, Bozidar Djelic introduced VAT on food and baby equipment. She didn't introduce this government. Why didn't you exclude it from taxation then? You couldn't, because there's an abuse of that tax exemption, because commercial food will also be declared baby food. It's not true that it's so much cheaper. Don't make it up. You're making facts, arguments. From what I've seen, some fellow MPs have now been to the post office here. They say there are no lines, no one stands on the cold, but it's important to say that someone is standing, so indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12727	Thank you. You've got a line. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who is a proponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12728	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not talk about the arrangement of the courts. He suggested it. I see Marko Djurisic is a very nervous man today, I don't know what's wrong with him. For his information, I have proposed a law amending the Law on Registration of Courts, but I am also president of the Administrative Board and I am proud to say that I have proposed and signed myself as president of the Parliamentary Group that Ms. Danica Marinkovic be elected member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, so that, Mr. Djurisic, I can speak on one and another basis. You be as nervous as you want, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12729	Ambassador, speak to me. I've given you my word as an authorized promoter, who can call every second of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12730	Thank you. Here, the parliamentary group represented by Marko Djurisic and Marinika Tepic seems to have an internal problem. I, as I understand it, Mr Marko Djurisic advocates having as many children as possible in Serbia and that the Serbian government is taking measures and proposing measures to the National Assembly so that Serbia has more children than it has now. I agree with that. It's SNS policy. But on the other hand, I cannot understand the logic of sitting in the same parliamentary group with your colleague who said that the greatest sin of Danica Marinkovic was that in her biography, which she provided to the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, among other things, that she had been born on 2 April 1951, in the Bosnian Brod, Republika Srpska, by Father Kosta Drakulovski, to marry Stevan Marinkovic, both of whom she received two sons, were otherwise highly educated, Aleksandar Marinkovic and Milos Marinkovic. It is the greatest sin of Danica Marinkovic because, imagine, she delivered to the National Assembly a biography in which she had the courage to say where she was born, in Republika Srpska, to marry that year and that she had two sons with that man. Now it is not clear to me – is it a shame to have children or is it not a shame to have children? Should we have children in Serbia or should we not have children in Serbia? I understand the logic of Mrs. Tepic. Mrs. Tepic is someone who, while she was the regional secretary for youth and sport, singled out, now I'm going to tell you, singled out... I think so much about honesty, since we're constantly being respected here that we're criminals, some thugs, we're protecting some tycoons, we're robbing someone, we're robbing kids, we're robbing pensioners. You tell me now - what is it when Mrs. Marinika, then called Marinika Cobanu, in the meantime became Marinika Tepic, it doesn't matter, I guess the wife married, I congratulate her, she said for 2015, as the rural secretary for youth and sport, 2.5 million dinars for organisation, watch out, World Cup in Tomaševec. Do you know what sport? Banatian Shores. So in order for you to organize the Banat Shores in one village, Mrs Gojkovic, and call it the World Cup, to give it 2.5 million dinars... It is only one in a series of examples of how Vojvodina was robbed when those who are now giving us lessons about honesty, about morality, about fighting the tycoon, about having more children in power in Serbia, that is to say, were in power in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I'll tell you another reason why a colleague feels that the greatest sin of Danica Marinkovic is that she is married and that she has children. So, her greatest sin is because Mrs. Marinika, while she was the provincial secretary for youth and sport, along with Bojan Pajtic, in 2013 and 2014, introduced the subject of health education on reproductive health in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as a pilot project. Now I will also tell you in which schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that there will be no doubt, and from there you can see, honourable fellow Members of the people and respected citizens of Serbia, why such hatred for the family and why such hatred for the woman who has a husband and who has children. When I read to you, you ask yourself who should be ashamed. So, the subject was introduced in the schools in Zrenjanin, Sremski Karlovci, Novi Sad, Pancheva, Stari Pazova and the project included the "Nikola Tesla" secondary school in Vrsac, the economic and commercial school in Kikinda, Vienna and Alibunar, as well as the "Borislav Mihajlović Mihiz" secondary school in Irig. Now I'm going to tell you what it said in that textbook, so you're going to see... (Ana Stevanović, from Place: Theme. This is all about the subject. When the name Danica Marinkovic is called Račak and Klečko, and you can read in the newspaper that the sharps in Kosovo and Metohija want to build a monument to Walker who staged Račak, and today in the National Assembly, women, judges, a highly educated judge who had the courage in 1998 and 1999. Years in Kosovo and Metohija investigates crimes so-called The KLA only because, Mrs Gojkovic, in her biography, stated where she was born, in Republika Srpska, that she had married and had two sons. The greatest sin is Danica Marinkovic's standing in her biography. Of course, her greatest sin is that she didn't say -- she's right, Helena Ranta, the villains from the Yugoslav Army and the Serbian military killed innocent Albanian civilians. No, she had the courage to say -- no civilians were killed, these are KLA terrorists who changed into civilian suits. I'm saying this for the people and for the citizens of Serbia, to know that we from SNS are proud. I'm proud, I'm personally proud and my colleagues from the SNS are proud that I have signed that such a woman be elected to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Let's go back to why someone bothers when someone in the biography says he's married or married and has children. In this famous textbook that was promoted by Mrs. Marinika and Mr. Pajtic. I'll read it to you now. (Anna Stevanović, from the post: This is not a topic. Only you shout, slowly, we have time. On page 107 of this textbook, it says: “Family planning in a narrow sense – the right for people to have the desired number of children, in brackets, not more than four. ” So don't have more than four kids. That's what it says on page 107. I hope there's people in the department, so they can check to see if this is true. (Anna Stevanović, from the post: This is not a topic. ) He says: “Long - term studies and studies have concluded that homosexuality is a normal and positive variation of human sexuality, ” page 105. "There is no evidence that parents influence the sexual orientation of children, because there are examples of both homo and heterosexual children from homo and heterosexual marriages," page 105. Anna Stevanović, from the scene: This is a hate speech. ) On the question – since when homosexuality arises...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12731	Ambassador, we understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12732	Let me finish, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12733	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12734	I have an obligation. The opposition's emissaries resent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12735	Don't shout, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12736	I have an obligation. Just let them yell. I have an obligation to protect a woman whose greatest sin is that she... (Dusan Pavlovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12737	I ask the MP, the honourable Pavlovic, not to shout and not to give advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12738	... She was investigating a crime in Kleck, a crime in Rack, and she had the courage to make her biography say she was married and had two sons. Now let me explain the motivation of people who think this is the greatest sin of Danica Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12739	Ambassador, please don't read the books to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12740	Please. Citation allowed. If you're ashamed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12741	No, I can't let that happen. Ambassador, we understand. (Radoslav Milojic, from the scene: you should kick him out of the O.R. for this. I cannot allow a messenger to continue reading the portions of the textbook.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12742	I'm done. Just to remind this gentleman who's nervous, who gets me, who screams at you and me. Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic and then provincial secretary Marinika Kobanu Tepic promoted this textbook. So, don't have more than four children, everything is normal, everything is allowed, and the greatest sin of Danica Marinkovic is that she came on board and said I'm married and I have two sons. You should be ashamed, and thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12743	The word has the People's MP Marinika Tepic, replica I can't run a session. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: I have the right to replica.]] I can't give it to Marinika. I can't give it to anyone who's louder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12744	I'll try in two minutes to respond to what's in this salva, completely improvised, and totally amazing, idea tried to get through. The first biography of Danica Marinkovic is something available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As I said, very easily verifiable on Parliament's website, but half of her biography is about what her father, her mother, her husband, and so on. The problem is how she presents herself to the parliament who should choose her, not how we read what she wrote. As for all other charges, when it comes to the Banatian Shores, I'm just going to introduce you to the fact that your minister, Mr. Vanja Udovic, is one of the promoters and contractors of the Banatski Shore. He encouraged us to promote and support traditional sports. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Does that cost 2.5 million?) ) He spoke very clearly of it at sports fairs, and at public debates at the New Sad DIF and was very pleased that we cultivate traditional sports, which are recognised as a special sports branch. Just consult the Sport Act and the Resorial Rules. As for sexual education, or what was formally called the Health Education Project on reproductive health, there is no project that I am prouder of than this one. It is not true that it was implemented only in 10 schools in Vojvodina, but in 74 secondary schools, with coverage of over 80 territories of the AP Vojvodina. A unique, best project of this kind, not only in the country, but also in the region. Over 12,000 different high schools went through this program. The textbook doesn't exist, there's a book. It's a good thing it exists. There is a dictionary on reproductive health, it would be useful reading for all the MPs, and all those insinuations that you've instructed from homosexualism, which is precisely said to be a positive variation, that's because it's not negative, because it doesn't endanger people around it. You treat your fears elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12745	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12746	I have no fear of anyone. Everything I said was true, you confirmed it. Vanja Udovicic didn't tell you to give 2.5 million dinars to promote the Banatski Shore in Tomashevec. (Marinika Tepic, from the place: Yes, and so on. He didn't say. If he said so, show me the memo from the ministry that I see him, and that all of Serbia see him. Just something to say about this famous textbook of yours, which you're so proud of. (Ana Stevanović, from Place: Theme. That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12747	This is a replica. You don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12748	The theme is when Danica Marinkovic wrote in the biography I opposed the Shiptar terrorists, and you know I'm married and I have two sons. That's the darkness. It's dark for you. (Vladimir Đurić, from the place: For you it is, for us it is not. If that's the topic for you, then that's the subject for us. I'll read you just one sentence from this famous dictionary, textbook, lexicon, what is it, which was promoted by Mrs. Tepic. Do you know what they call prostitutes in that dictionary? Sex workers. Now I ask you who should be ashamed that he wrote something like this, taught children in Vojvodina, and promoted as an official policy of birth, reproductive health, etc. In what European country? In what mondialist system is someone who's a prostitute called a sex worker? That's what it says in that lexicon of theirs. This was promoted by Bojan Pajtic, DS, Nenad Canak, LSV and now they say we should be ashamed. They should be ashamed. Do you know how much this is paid? This has been paid hundreds of millions of euros, for individual depraved minds to put on paper something that is not learned in any European country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12749	Thank you. That's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12750	Thank you. I wish they were present here, or at least those on the other side who speak passed this program of sexual education. If you're not aware that we're all born as free-right sex beings to choose whether or not we're going to reproduce, that's the question of our choice. (Alexander Martinovic, from the site: But no more than four times. I won't help you, if you haven't figured it out by now, you'll never. With your performance and insults, you have not offended me, it is my fight and I will drive, I will not give up, even if you have tried to insult me as much as you can, but you have offended the government of the Republic of Serbia, you have offended Minister Brnabic, who is sitting here. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: You insult this society. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12751	Leave the minister alone. Don't speak to me personally, and leave the minister alone. Leave her alone with these replicas of yours. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] The word is Goran Kovacevic, and let Gordana Komic be prepared. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12753	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12754	You'd better sit down and talk in the microphone, then you'll hear from the noise, so very hard. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12755	It doesn't bother the noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12756	Go ahead. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12757	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12758	I'm not called a replica, I'm called Maya. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Give me a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12759	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, the end of the year is certainly the time when we are discussing the budget, and that is the widest version that can be defined, and that today's debate is certainly the debate that implies that we listen from opposition political parties to the broadest arguments. The budget is certainly the most significant economic and legal category that can work in one country, but we ended the budget debate long ago. In a country where transition takes over 25 years, it's just amazing that the system... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Six times he mentioned me. Don't I have the right to a replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12760	I'm going to be looking for an underprivileged internship just for you, Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Six times he mentioned me directly. Just say I don't have the right to a replica. I'm telling you that you have a warning, because you're really harassing all the MPs who want to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12761	So in a country where transition takes 25 years, system laws are the essence of change in one society. Systemic laws change the functioning of this society, and these system laws that we make actually concern the process of demonopolization of the society in which we live. We have passed laws concerning labour law, change and demonopolization of both products and services, as well as the demonopolization of the state apparatus. That's why in this time, in a difficult time, system laws are of crucial importance anyway. Today we are discussing a set of laws that are part and economic laws, laws concerning Serbia's economic rebirth. Today, when we discuss economic laws, we talk about road infrastructure, about continuing to build roads in Serbia, mostly highways like never in the last decade, we talk about the capital market that we are changing, but the essence of today's set of laws are laws concerning ordinary people. It's most interesting to me, the laws that regulate and repair the position of our ordinary citizens from different parts. Today, when we vote and discuss these laws, we are in fact discussing first of all the parents, the new young parents we are correcting, discussing small shareholders, discussing a set of ordinary big life issues that are important to a small man. Stop red tape, according to the minister, is actually the motto of these laws. These laws should allow greater justice and facilitate justice for all those who have accumulated problems regarding the functioning of the state administration. It is indisputable, and we heard it in principle, that these laws are, in fact, a first and foremost, a alignment with the fundamental economic laws that exist in the EU. These laws at the same time represent a alignment with the laws adopted by the Serbian Parliament during the previous period of time, which are in line. For me personally, a key member of this whole 27-law debate is in points 9, 10, 11, and 12 of Article 56b of the Value Added Tax Act. About eight months ago, we set out as the Serbian Government in a project that meant making it possible for new parents, so-called. the reporting of newborns in clinical centres. "E-baby" is something that was simply not supposed to work in Serbia eight months ago. Until then, young parents were confronted with a communication with a Serbian bureaucracy that seemed complicated. Simply, after eight months, today every young parent knows that he no longer has to go to the counter and wait, doesn't have to go to spend hours and collect the papers he needs to be able to exercise his rights, especially the basic, getting a health book and a copy born for his newborn child. What we're proposing today is, in fact, a sequel to this story. The system by which VAT is allowed to be returned to food for the newborn child to enable practical relaxation of the economic situation is what produced the results in the previous period of time. No one can say that in the conditions in which young couples living in Serbia receive children, this financial effect and incentive has not made it easier for them to survive, to function more easily in one of the happiest possible times they have, but it is clear that the policy of functioning and subsidisation is essential social policy and that this is not a policy concerning tax laws. And just moving the tax subsidies system into social security is perfectly normal. Of course, in the next period of time, we will allow the subsidies that come to families first and foremost to be at the same level, if not greater than today. Of course, this will mean that fiscal commitments in the budget are bigger, but that means that Serbia is more capable and willing to take more care of its most important members. What makes this law safe is that we, as SNS MPs, are convinced that we will vote for this law and that the Government has good intentions, is the fact that in Article 12b, we say that this law will not start to apply until the moment we do not have a clear mechanism to provide financial support to families. Until that moment, the VAT vomiting system will function. So, we're not going to have any financial damages that any of Serbia's citizens can suffer. Article 6 of the same law changes the tax rate relating to an entire branch and few Members today have spoken about it. Practically one branch goes to a lower tax rate than 20 to 10. This basically means that since New Year's, when the tax rate starts to apply, Serbian citizens will have pellets and briquettes, wood products at a rate that will be 10% lower or may not be lower. Maybe manufacturers will lower the price, but it certainly is a burden of 10% less than the fact that it should be transferred to the price. If that's not the case, the market will regulate it. What is important for the state of Serbia, is that these incentives have allowed a whole branch, which rarely happens in Serbian history, to practically promote. This is a good book example of how the state should intervene. The state has an interest, and that interest is very clear. He means you have an economic interest. Economic interest implies that you have a rural interest, that it is practically a branch whose raw materials are in non-central parts of Serbia, you have an environmental interest and it practically raises the wood industry and the whole branch. But not only that branch, but also the wood processing industry, the processing industry of secondary raw materials from wood and agricultural products, that is, the remains. If you have one library subsidy mechanism and help promote the functioning of this branch, and since it is a relatively young branch, then it is undeniable that besides other subsidies it can have a significant effect. We can discuss other laws today, and it's no problem for us to discuss almost everything individually, and they concern the little man. We can talk about amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, let's say – yes, it is a great pleasure. Of course, it is a great pleasure for all today who are transferring modes of operation, or control from the second-degree body, from local administrations to the ministry. Whatever you're saying today, we're essentially based on one fact. Serbia's assembly is there to bring the budget and it is the most important legal document that works, but the Serbian Parliament is there and to define the functioning of an ordinary small citizen. These laws today allow the functioning and change of living conditions, i.e. rules that function, to make it easier and accessible for all citizens of Serbia, and thus the Serbian Parliament, or the majority of the assembly, has no reason not to support these laws in the package.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12762	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12763	Thank you. Twenty-seven agenda points can be divided into at least four groups, one is completely uninteresting, these are agreements that come in line, so they come in. The other are the new laws I'm going to talk about, especially when it comes to the Capital Market Act, as a change and complement, and then these two other groups, one that extends the deadlines and most interesting about presenting Petrochemy and turning into a public debt. Minister Antić praised us Petrochemija for 2015 and 2016, 21 million profits 2016, 59 revenues, 300m euros in income, etc. I don't want trucks, millions, planes, I'd like to bring ourselves down to dialogue, if there's any way he can ever, the sooner the better, and that's where I'm going to mention the first group of laws where we're extending deadlines. There's no folklore, and there's no willingness to show myself better than I am who's going to save us from not solving our media service fee. We didn't. Dot. We misjudged how much time we needed. And it's not going to happen by itself. Such deadlines have been extended by several laws, since we haven't done our jobs in time. And that's what's going to happen to us. Well, for Petrochemy, we didn't do our jobs in time. To represent the transformation of the debt of Petrochemy into public debt is, of course, the right to political perception and propaganda, sight, me being smart, but then it's my duty to explain what it's really about. The thing is that there are 42 tenants in the building and one of the tenants made a debt, loves a man gambling, loves these hedge funds from the capital market, so, and comes the main one in the building and says – we'll all share his debt. Our 42 residents say – we have nothing to do with the cube, we have nothing to do with the hedge fund, we have nothing to do with this Antić, not Petrovic from the fifth floor, he has made the entire debt. No, no, that's what the whole building's gonna pay for. Now, that's a public debt. It doesn't take a lot of wisdom to figure it out, you know. In a moment of work, clean up all debts when you turn everything into a public debt, only then do we all have a problem because we all need to pay it back, because then it's less for social functions in the budgets. I don't blame you for that, all the governments did it, and the ones I supported and those I'm opposition to. None of them wanted a dialogue. None, because everyone's very smart and they come and they say now I'm saying this because I'm popular. It doesn't matter if I supported it or whether I was an opposition. Until we find out it's unwanted behavior until we get here, we'll have a political folklore, where with all the possible violations of the Rules of Procedure, we'll talk about what they want, and in two years we'll be back here, doing what? To extend the deadline for the media fee, so in a year and a half we'll come to do what, turn the other part with Petrochemy or someone new who doesn't need UPPR because he's got profits and profits, but there he is. That's not how you do it. I know there's no ears for what I'm saying, but unfortunately for me, it doesn't reduce the truth of what I share with you. There were no more years in this congregation without December extending deadlines for the laws where we had sworn and made a firm promise that it would be December 31st. It's a recipe for failure. We can fill it with whatever you want, it won't be removed, and we'll be having the same conversations in a year and two years from today, if we don't change our behavior. Something that will change the behaviour on the capital market is changes and additions to the Capital Market Act. Watch carefully, talk to the experts, when I first looked at the changes and the additions looked like me. What does it look like? It looks like what happened after 1999 on the world stock exchanges, gambling, credit betting, that's what it looks like to me. Then I wonder why, what do we need it for? We have the Capital Market Act, and we haven't applied it either. Why are we bringing this? What's gonna happen? I didn't find an answer. I have no doubt that the answer will be from the finance minister or anyone in charge, that it will be great, that it will be a great solution, and we will see everything in a year, and then we will see each other in a year and I will ask the same questions as for media taxes, and I will ask the same questions as for turning Petrochemy's debt into public debt. What are we proud of? There is no simpler solution than to turn some other debts into public debt, or money guaranteed by the budget. Whether they're gonna pay or not, I'm not getting into it, but that's how we do it. Then why do we expect to be successful? The questions stemming from this three brief comments on how to extend the deadlines for public services and taxes, that we are presenting Petrochemy as an exceptional business success of the government, and that it remains unclear what these amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act will remain, so all three issues are being translated into a better question – when the Minister of Culture, January, February, March, will come to the Assembly to discuss how we can solve the problem of taxis, and what we are delaying, when media services are concerned. It comes down to the fact that Ministers and Antic and Minister Knezevic, whoever, come to the Assembly, and let's talk about what else is a problem with the enterprises in restructuring. How many companies similar in Petrochemia, how much they're going to get from the budget, and let's talk about it by talking about facts, and we want to find a solution. It can go back to folklore, but we'll move significantly for a dialogue that didn't exist about important problems in this assembly. Not to mention the fact that the Assembly was offered a biography of Danica Marinkovic, which we have the right to comment on. It's the seat of the board of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Public place, public figures, public responsibility. If, on the two sides of a biography co-worker, Marinika Tepic reads, I do not have a single sentence recommended to fight corruption. Then I have to ask, what's the reason most people want that very candidate who's retired. There will be time, there are no other obligations can only be in the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. I accept, where I do not dispute the majority, they will choose who they want, but why you make a rule out of forms of biography that should not exist in a serious debate on a committee that seriously elects a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why do you think that's supposed to be a rule? Why don't you want to talk about what the biographies of the people who speak to us should look like? Let's make that move, and the political parties will again, to my great sadness, I don't have a bright political career, because I don't agree to political parties being the Supreme Judges of everything, but I'm asking that the ability of the people running be a criterion for everything. And I'm always surprised at people who say, "I can do it." How can you, man, no school, no experience, no knowledge, aman, how can you? She gave me a client. It's no good. How can I tell you, it's no good. So either we set up criteria for how the biographies of candidates who perform extremely important public functions must look or we will talk to another Danica Marinkovic sometime next time. That's what this session is about, most of the time repeating the same recipe for failure. That's what I'm in for, when it's gonna stop. The answer is – you don't know. And I'm telling you, it's time to sit down and figure out when that's gonna stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12764	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12765	I have to go around this "Petrochemia" and some of the terms that Mrs Comic, who, as a longtime parliamentarian, is extremely respected, which she used in her discussion, I must comment on. First of all, I'm really sorry that the very exact data I'm presenting here in the discussion is completely responsible and completely verifiable data that I'm standing behind, both human and political, and professionally, you call planes, trucks. It just kind of slipped under your level of a multi-year-old serious parliamentarian. I'll read you the official data. In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. Petrochemija achieved a revenue of 237m euros and a business profit of 21m euros; at the end of November 2016 1,433 employees, 262m euros and a business profit of 11 months 2016. I read you what the projection is nine days before the end of the year, that's 59 million euros and that's very exact data that are very confidential and I really wouldn't lose mine, to say, at least how much authority in your eyes. I've got another time to read this data that's not 100% accurate. I don't know what folklore is for you when this policy is at stake, but what we're doing is definitely not folklore, this is solving problems. In 2009, the Government of the Republic with NIS signed a protocol on strategic co-operation, which was created by August 31st 2009, to determine that it would partially pay, and also partially reprogramme because of the poor financial situation and the loss in the Petrochemy business, did not pay the dinar or reprogramme. It's a folklore, to promise and do nothing. In 2011, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Oil Industry, a.d., re-signed the Strategic Co-operation Agreement and those agreements, defined the quantities and prices of temporary gasoline to be delivered by NIS to Petrochem, and the debt which, according to the previous reprogramme, was not settled in part, and partly converted into capital. The determined amount has not been converted into either capital or the corresponding amount has been paid. It's folklore. Twice we did it in 2009 and 2011, we signed agreements and pushed the problem further under the carpet, further under the carpet, and the problem grew as a huge hill beneath the carpet to the current 254m euros with interest. You know, just because we were pretending to solve the problem didn't mean that the meter stopped knocking. We have 254m euros today, and I claim that this is the great success of this government which has decided that the hill has spread out and that it has negotiated well and of these 254m euros, 105m now we are taking over into debt, and the rest we have managed to write off and convert into ownership, and I repeat, not even this 105m that are really paying all the owners of the apartments, and I must say, if we are tenants now, we have not even created a dinar of debt, because I read to you when the debt came, precisely after years with the growth of that debt, that 105m we now, if you read the law carefully, we as a state can now convert into capital and increase our ownership structure in Petrochemia. I repeat, the government of the Republic of Serbia and public enterprises will have between 70% and 75% ownership. Don't make me tell you this information, I can't tell you exactly, because after the conversion of all claims it will be something that experts will do, but we will have between 70% and 75% in a company that will have zero debts and that will have a few dozen million euros in its account and the planned profits in 2017 of, again, about 40 or 50 million euros. We really now have every possibility that with the long-term contract that we have with the oil industry Serbia, which guarantees 10 years, the amount and price for four years that some planned investment period is in the line of polypropylene, we can really now ensure that it is either privatised or provided by a strategic partner, but not in a way that we will give to someone, but that someone will have to pay seriously, because this company is now truly with this "Ebid" and with pure finance has its value. This value is more than serious and we will all be witnessing together that in 2017 I believe we will have a very good business activity with Petrochemy and that we will have one serious game of serious players who will race to be partners with us in this and such "Petrochemicals". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12766	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12767	Thank you very much. Dear Members, there is no doubt that dialogue is the most favourable format for solving various open issues. However, I have failed to notice what your proposal would be to address this situation when it comes to taxes for the work of a public media service. Simply, calculations show that if we were to approach it, if we had approached it in another way, that tax should be roughly over 300 dinars. Of course, the issue has also been raised whether citizens would be willing to pay, whether economic indicators are such that they allow that amount of tax. This seems to be a practical and reasonable solution in this situation. The government was named half of August. Maybe it's missed, I don't know, I don't think so, but we'll certainly open a dialogue on that subject. I'm always in the mood for that kind of thing. I think it's a very important social issue. On the other hand, it would be very encouraging to hear this opportunity or other when it comes to what this concrete proposal is that we can talk about here and what it is that is being offered to citizens. This system that we extend to a year is valid in 2016. It has proved to be a reasonable system that allows for the relatively normal functioning of the Public Media Service, one and the other. So I don't see any drawback in the solution. If you call for a lack of dialogue on the subject, that's fine. There may be space in the next period anyway, but I think, as far as the very essence of what's been suggested to extend for a year, we haven't made a failure, because it's a solution that's practical and reasonable in the given circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12768	The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12769	Just now, Minister Antic was talking about pushing under the carpet. If it offends you that I'm saying millions, trucks, planes, sorry about the planes, but I'm saying it so I don't repeat millions of euros because it doesn't mean anything to people. So, paying an electric fee was and everyone here said, "It's no good," so he said otherwise, so he said it's no good either, so he returned the fee to the electric counter. Minister, or we will have a dialogue and say – Serbian citizens, RTS, public service media, we do not know how to do as you pay cable operators, and you pay your internet, we only know how to put a fee on your count and take off more deadlines, or we will say – we will introduce them the caste, or we will tell them – we will introduce a special service that will only do the subscription and it is a special dialogue of how much money the media public services need. This is not a question of agreement between the director and you, it is a question of the service that the media service provides with. It's costing and it hasn't happened yet. So, I have suggestions for you and that's why I'm talking about giving the amendment - two years and please adopt it. Here, write that I didn't sign it, because it's important here who writes, not what it says, because in a year we'll be here, the same laws in force, and we'll extend in a year. So, it's not my goal to prove that someone's stupid enough to make solutions. You can't hide that. You can see that. My goal is to be less stupid in the dialogue together, because that means we found a solution, if you'll be special. Are you wondering why people pay cable? They don't have a problem. How do cable operators take charge? Why can't media services do that? What's our problem? So let's go up to the count, and it's wrong for people because it's put on numbers that aren't useful and stuff. I'm talking about this kind of dialogue, and that's why my amendment is in two years, not a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12770	Minister Ana Brnabic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12771	Thank you. I should certainly say a few words about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, because somehow I do not think there are enough dialogues on the bill, so when they are mentioned already, it is certainly important for you, too, respected MPs and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to say a few words. The draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act is mainly aimed at reducing market abuse. In addition, again, it is one of those laws within our European pathway. So when we finished screening for Chapter IX - financial services, it was certainly concluded that the law was not in line with European directives of market abuse, so that was one reason. But in that context, it was also going to expand and introduce some other provisions that could make this law and only function on the capital market more transparent. In this regard, it seems important to me to mention that even an attempt to commit a criminal act as a punishable institution, or punishable institution, is being introduced closer to determining the concept of insider information and the time limit within which insider information can be published and that greater information is being given, or that there is certainly more guidance from the Commission on securities than value, in order to prevent manipulations. The same is true in order to provide for an obligation for the Securities Commission to inform the public of the supervisory measures expressed in respect of the infringement of the market abuse provisions. So it was intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12772	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12773	Thank you. I'd just like a little bit. In principle, I agree with you, it is a good topic for dialogue and it should be considered. I just wanted to point out one fact quite simple. It's not the same thing cable operators and the way they operate in relation to public service. Of course, cables don't go anywhere. These finesse, of course, which aren't really finesse, we know very well, so the thing for shade is two more complex, but in any case it's a subject that we need to talk about. Of course, it is a little deeper when viewing the type of cable broadcaster offer compared to the social and media role and function of public services. It's about some segments of more attractive programmes, especially the packaged offer, a series of other fines that point to the fact that it's not easy to identify how cable operators' subscription can be operated and collected, compared to a public media service fee. But it seems to me that we agree in principle that the topic of dialogue is very fruitful and that a solution can be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12774	Thank you. Maja Machužić has a word. Let Dusan Pavlovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12775	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we are facing today a set of financial laws that should provide and improve Serbia's financial stability. I must admit that in the debate so far, I have not heard any meaningful and fundamental remarks about the proposed legal solutions. Of course, I can't take seriously the fact that 27 points is a lot, and we still have 57 more proposals to expand the agenda. Of course, I also cannot take seriously any information that certain MPs feel that the construction of roads should be financed from the primary money emissions. These are really some suggestions I don't want to discuss anymore. I would also refer to some of the previous speakers who criticised these legal solutions, who were experts in building roads from meadows to meadows, and now criticise the completion of very serious projects, such as Corridor 10, such as the end of the highway from Obrenovac to Surcin, and the same ones who had 12 full years to pass the laws on property value evaluators. If they had brought it 12 years ago, they wouldn't have had that number, or thousands of failed privatisations. I'm going to give you some information on these particular privatisations they did. Since 2001, 2284 companies have been sold in the privatisation process. Every fourth company sold, privatisation was cancelled, and 80% of these companies ended up in bankruptcy and liquidation. Nearly 400,000 people were out of work during that period. Should I mention, for the sake of truth, that since 2012, 124,000 people have been employed here, that almost every month, a new factory has been opened on average? I don't think we can put these two sizes in comparison. If the gentlemen who had had this opportunity for 12 years had passed a law on evaluators of the value of immovableity, we would not have "Agrobank", "Vojvodina Development Bank" and other banks that have failed because of the poor estimates of the immovableity that have been placed in stock. In order not to allow us to get into such a situation again, the government, headed by Alexander Vukic, has submitted a bill on valuers, among other things, on the agenda today. He should bring professional competence, as well as the appropriate expertise and education of evaluators, their process of improvement, which does not exist at the moment. It should create a balanced and adequate system of assessment of the value of immovableity that will bring financial stability in terms of an objective and realistic basis for crediting the economy. The value-evaluators law should also provide reliable standards that will be in line with international standards. In addition to all of this, what is significant in this law, it is also the establishment of a system of control and control over the conduct of the assessor, as well as one of the most important measures adopted by this law, which is a policy of liability insurance, and that professional responsibility of the assessor, which should indeed reduce the number of unrealized estimates. Expecting that the adoption of these legal solutions before you today will contribute to the financial stability and quality of life of Serbia's citizens, I, fellow MPs, would urge you to give your vote in the day of voting for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12776	Thank you. The word has Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12777	Dear citizens of Serbia, we have a lot of laws here. If the viewers might think we're jumping off the subject all the time, it's not that. We have 27 laws under one item on the agenda. I only want to talk about one law. It's a public service cab, which we need to extend for another year. The first question that I would rhetorically ask myself – should the citizens of Serbia pay that tax for the Public Service? My answer is – should be. Public service needs to finance taxpayers' money. But what, then, do taxpayers have to get in return? It's a two-way process. All right, I'll pay for some favor to be well informed, in return I want to be exactly that, well informed. What can we see at the public service in the last, say, two years? We can see that all citizens are equally funded by public service, which by taxes, which through budget taxes, but we can see that in a political sense not all citizens are equally represented in public service. Let's just say, I can set an example. I belong to a political party that is the fourth strongest in this assembly. They repeat once again - the fourth in power in this assembly. Neither I nor anyone from my political organisation has been on any political information show since the April 2016 elections took place, and now it's December. Is that a public service? Is it fair to represent the political forces in Serbia that exist? Not once. By contrast, the prime minister, people in the ruling coalition, ministers, MPs from the ruling coalition, you can see every two minutes. If citizens all equally... This is, of course, not just a situation with my political organization, but with everyone from the opposition. Okay, someone comes here and there, but everyone in the opposition can't come. What could be seen in this public service if all citizens who finance public service were equally represented in it? For example, someone could say at that public service that in 2012, the prime minister announced a law on the origin of the property, so that he did not bring it, which he did in 2013, and 2014, and 2015, and 2016 and the law is still missing. There's no opposition to saying that on public service. Once a year, the prime minister says he will settle or 24 controversial privatisations are resolved. They haven't been solved. There's no one to say that at the public service. Do you think it's really a proper public service where someone can't say that? Say, what else would you hear at the public service? What's supposed to be heard at the public service, and you can't hear it? Pensioners were taken 20 billion dinars a year through pension cuts. So many pensioners have paid for the reforms of this government. Okay, pensioners may think it's good, maybe some don't, but it would be good if someone from the opposition who can't show up at the public service said that Smederjevska "Gelezara" in 2015, with the professional management, brought by the prime minister, announced it as a major turnaround, as a major success of Smederjev's "Streders", a year later, made a debt of 144m euros. So, 20 billion dinar pensioners were taken, which was about 180m euros in 2015 somewhere, and then irresponsible professional management made a loss of 140m euros. There is no one to tell pensioners that they actually financed the professional management at the Smederjevo Irons. The Prime Minister says he's not afraid of anyone, and he's going to enter a TV duel with everyone. He said during the election campaign that with five opposition presidents he would enter the TV duel at the same time. Where's that TV duel at the public service? Will the public service at least invite the prime minister and those five opposition leaders to make the TV duel, as the prime minister said he was not afraid of anyone. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Can I talk to you about the subject? Of course, you can. For example, private televisions don't have to act like this, they don't have to cover the entire political spectrum. They can cover, they can only advocate one party or favor one party, but public service can't do that. There's one more thing I want to say, and that's it. One day in 2015, he said, too, the prime minister – we will turn all schools around by summer next year, all schools will be cleaned and every toilet will be arranged and clean for our children, and not, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, not out of credit, nothing from credit, but from our budget. If the public service were a public service and allowed someone from the opposition to sometimes appear at a public service, someone might say it is not true, that it did not happen because we are giving money to a modern-day Iron or to various others, on Petrochemy, for example, to cover their debts and therefore there is no money for schools. That's why children still need to be in squatters in some schools, so there's no money to turn hospitals, schools and all that. The responsibility of this kind of public service is certainly not in the people who work there because people fear for their jobs. The responsibility is in the Serbian government, which has led them to such a situation that they have to create such a programme that does not reflect all the citizens and all the taxpayers who finance them. I think it would be good to consider that the main question is not whether public service should be financed. I do, but the public service needs to change its editorial policy and we need to talk about it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12778	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting my colleague, respecting a professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences, who turned his back on me right now and came out, I must advertise Article 107(1). - the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is most violated by falseness. You could all have heard the accusation that this government took 20 billion pensioners. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The government didn't take a white dinar from the PIO Fund. On the contrary, the government's budget amounted to 201 billion in the PIO Fund for pensions to be paid. So from real sources, the government touched 201 billion. Number two, the respected professor who came out, but this is already a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what the authorised representative of Tuborg from Smederjevska Palanka does, therefore, the other untrue, was a political party. With the full respect of Professor Pavlovic, he does not have a political party. The political party is founded by 10,000 people, and if the minority is founded by thousands of people. They're an association of citizens, an election list. I ask a professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences not to use the term political party and political organisation in the future, because they are not. The third great untruth that marred the dignity of the National Assembly is that the opposition is not on RTS, and I find it touching when members of the opposition, i.e. Professor Pavlovic, in a direct transfer to RTS, says it is not on RTS. So, I don't know what's wrong with my colleague, respected Professor Pavlovic, but I am obliged to draw attention to the voters. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12780	Dear MPs, I would like to inform you that today we will no longer be able to be in direct transmission from 17.55 minutes. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: When it is my turn, there is no transmission. It is. You're 100%. In a direct transfer to the Second RTS Programme for the transfer of water polo matches and the forgiveness of representatives Nikic and Gocic. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12781	Thank you. The Honorable President, honourable MPs, for example, I am not in direct transmission, and those who just said that there was no one on RTS, they were in direct transmission. I hope someone hears my voice, too. Maybe tonight when it's on tape. It's all normal, about two o'clock, maybe somebody's trying, and maybe I'll watch too. Some of the things that have been said I wanted to say, as someone who represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to say a few words. As for direct transmissions going to RTS two, that's all said. As for the rest of the editorial public service policy, do not expect the Serbian government to edit. There are clearly identified bodies and advices governing both public services under specific rules. What the Serbian government is doing, at this point, is that it has proposed amendments to the rules to allow for the smooth functioning of public services. I know you don't like this, but that's how it is. As for "Sartida" and the story of "Sartida", I think that once and for all, a point has been put on the subject. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: No. Wait, please, to tell her everything I think, since you obviously know everything I'm going to say. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: We know. I'm not that psychic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12782	Minister, please, you go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12783	I'm not as psychic as the others, but I'll try the facts to handle it. There are 5,000 people working there today, there are two ovens, there we have a Chinese investor called Hestil, who announced his new investment several days ago. It's facts and it can't be killed anymore. The third thing I want to say is, it wasn't at the Public Service, but it was on some other media, related to the Law establishing the origin of the property. It was yesterday. Minister Nela Kuburovic made it clear that a draft law establishing the origin of the property was made and will be brought about by public debate. So much so that no one does and that things are not being fulfilled that are being promised. Please, it's not just a public service place where you can learn timely information.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12784	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12785	Chairman, I'm advertising an article. 104, 106 and 107, and among other things 103. You had to warn the speaker to talk a little bit about the subject. But since he's already brought forth a series of lies, and there's really no point in lying to the people in that way, i.e. to lie to the entire parliament, because, it is a profound insult to the Assembly, I must say, as far as stretching to RTS, here, may God have stretched you as they stretch us. I would really like to ask the Serbian Radio-Television... (Saša Radulovic, from town: Bravo. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12786	Ambassador, you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12787	Among other things, you had to warn them because they brought up a series of lies. We, if we ever get called to RTS, are usually shows where you go as a shooting, because you have at least three against one. And that's how they do the show. In doing so, none of the editors, none of the journalists were touched when the government changed, and it was mainly the wives or girls of various opposition politicians. There's something else I need to say. I personally resent Serbia's Radio-Television because it protects the parliamentary group, for reasons it may not be calling them, because if it did, they would have dropped a lot of ratings. Thank you. (Saša Radulović, from the place: Come on, please. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12788	Ambassador, I couldn't have done so much damage to the Rules of Procedure in such a short time. Thank you. Aleksandra Tomic wants the word as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12789	I thank the chairman. Whenever we have presentations of individual parliamentary groups that represent movements, then they go according to each law, according to each agenda, the subject of the type – you took the citizens of Serbia, you put your hand in the pocket of the citizens, the partocrats, and at the time we did, in principle to work, it is the right way to heal Serbia's economy. Well, it's not the right way to close 5,000 jobs in Smederev and the Smederjev Ironworks, so come here to Parliament and say, you know, pensioners don't have 5,000 workers, so we fight pensioners and workers, but be responsible and say, yes, we took part in 24 privatisations as bankruptcy managers and we bear responsibility for robbery privatisations, and for today we need to be out of this parliament. It would also be fair to the citizens of Serbia, as well as to colleagues who run all political parties, regardless of whether they are an opposition or a position. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12790	You have no right to a replica. (Saša Radulovic, from town: incredible. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12791	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, sometimes I wonder if I haven't slept through about 12 years from 2000 to 2012, or was I somewhere in the Amazon, in some deep forest, or was I with the Pygmies? By listening to colleagues across the street and their discussions, I come to the conclusion that we lived in a regulated state until 2012, that it was a state of prosperity, everything has worked since 2012 until today – everything has been destroyed. Everything was destroyed by the Serbian Progressive Party. So much demagogy, insolence and ignorance - I haven't heard it in a long time, like today. In particular, we talked very little about the Public Sector Payments Act. And then there were so many tears, there were all kinds of stories. You forgot who brought us all here to receive the kind of pay we receive in the public sector, who allowed us to take concrete measures to settle public finances. Like, it fell out of the sky, someone did it all yesterday. We're talking about how we're postponing deadlines for the Public Property Act. They're perfectly normal to delay. For the first time in 2016, something concrete was done. It's normal that even local self-governments haven't done their job properly, but where you wanted to work, and specifically the local self-government I come from, Kraljevo, has done a lot of things, so thanks to these efforts, we've found that we have three thousand acres of agricultural land that someone's been working on for the past 20-30 years. So, it wasn't parked, it wasn't standing there on the side. Someone was using our resources. Someone used public property. We found 50 apartments no one knew about, and someone lived in those apartments owned by the Republic of Serbia and all of us, didn't pay any obligations. We're criticizing the bill, which is only six months from now, trying to get all those local self-governments that didn't do it forced, and definitely with the help of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, to bring this big deal to an end, to finally know what we have and what we have. What were you talking about? There was talk of an appointment time. Everyone criticized 10 minutes before 15 hours, and we managed to endure 1,400 amendments, probably meaningful, probably those amendments where they say they're being deleted. My colleagues used to talk here, try to talk about the Public Service Funding Act. I haven't heard a word of that proposal. We talked about 24 privatisations, we talked about everything and everything, about Jellyzara, which we didn't talk about, except that bill. If you do not want to participate in the discussion properly, make too many proposals, propose amendments, I am sure we will accept everything in place and improve the law. Criticism for criticism didn't do anyone any good. We are trying to do and we will work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all 27 proposals, which law, which human resources, which agreement, will certainly do well. And I'm sure next year we'll do a lot of good for our country and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12792	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. I'm sorry, Mr. Radoslav Milojic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12793	How hard it is to say, Mr. Arsic, that name and last name every time, but good. It is not clear to me, indeed, why the SNS is humiliating Parliament's dignity and why the SNS with its coalition partners, it is important to point out, with the SPS, which has been in power for 25 years, is humiliating the dignity of all citizens who voted for us. We here are currently not representing the DS Parliamentary Group, but 230,000 voters, citizens of Serbia, who were won in previous parliamentary elections. I'm interested in why we didn't get an explanation, i.e. the reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure law, when Article 167 of this Rules of Procedure, which you of the SNS do not respect, says – the law can be passed by an urgent procedure, and by an urgent procedure can be passed by law governing issues and dealings arising under circumstances which could not be foreseen. What are the circumstances that you couldn't predict? I hope you knew at least three months ago that the end of the year was December 31st. At least that's how much you SNS can be visionaries. Well, well, it's up to you. We have twenty-seven agendas in today's session, and we only got the agenda 24 hours before the session. The DS Group has 18 minutes of its time. We have a minute and 35 seconds under one law, which is extremely important and we don't argue. Why don't you allow better preparation? Why don't you let us have a better discussion? Is it because you have no arguments? Is it because it's easy for you from the ruling majority, from the SPS and the SNS, because the chairman presses the bells and you vote? You don't have to follow the course of the session at all, you don't have to know what the law says. You're responding to bells, which is a shame in 2016, but we can't educate you anymore. We've educated you and it took us 25 years to explain to you that the border of Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovica is not good, that it's not good to fight, that it's not good to have bombs falling on us, but I guess we'll educate you in this, too. As far as the charge for media public service is concerned, that's how much the prime minister speaks about the truth. The prime minister said, here is Mr. Aleksandar Vukic: "TV subscription, as I promised Serbian citizens, will be lifted. I don't belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks." Since you're saying he's always telling the truth, we're asking a question -- what's with all this stuff? What does DS suggest? The Democratic Party proposes that only 25% of citizens, i.e. those who voted for SNS pay TV subscription. Why? Because from the 23rd hour of the 23rd hour, you have Alexander Vukic, and the rest of the hour is reserved for the pets of Alexander Vukic, Mr Antic and others from other parliamentary groups who worship the character and work of Mr Alexander Vukic. So, we suggest that only SNS pays a subscription to RTS, because that's where only MPs or SNS listeners are. It is a shame there are no REM reports eight months after the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12794	Mr. Milojich, please on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12795	Well, I'm talking about REM, Mr. Arsic. I don't know if you heard me talking about REM. I'm saying the problem is that REM hasn't delivered an eight-month election activity report since April of this year. I'm going to point two, since we have very little time, so I can't keep enough time at one point. As regards the public sector wage law, you say - this law redefines the time limits governing salaries and other incomes of public authorities, police officers, professional military members and staff in bodies in which the work is security and intelligence business. As for the military, I'm sorry if I don't recognize anyone and I'm sorry Minister Djordjevic isn't here. I pointed out this problem three months ago, he laughed here like you're laughing right now. When we got an army on the street for the first time, then that's the problem. The Democratic Party does not support that. The Democratic Party wants to fight within the framework of institutions. We are not a movement or anything, but I just want to say that it is not normal to treat members of the Serbian Army, which there are about 40,000, this way. The Department of Defense already has some pay grade. The problem of paying classes is to announce whether guaranteed paying classes for persons who have acquired pay groups through past work are being abolished at the Ministry of Defence and thus will reduce their personal income, which is still low according to the professional preparation. This means that the highest officers of the Serbian Army will be stripped of up to 30%, which means that the top officers of the Serbian Army, who risked their lives defending us and our country, will lose 25 000 dinars, and as you raised their salary by 1,832 dinars. It's inadmissible to do it that way. As for Petrohemia, respected Minister Arsic, who I have nothing real against, said that all debts were incurred, and now the state is taking over 105m euros from Petrohemia, that these debts occurred in some evil government in 2009 and some disastrous government in 2011. Mr Arsic, then the Minister of Mining and Energy was Petar Skundric, a senior member of the SPS Board, so I ask you to take equal credit for what was good in that government, and you are only 25 years in power, please take bad credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12796	Mr. Milojic, I didn't say that. You're misquoting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12797	Antiquity, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12798	I didn't say that. Take a stenogram, so check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12799	I mean Mr. Antic. And to answer, it is good to return old foreign savings, but it is good to tell citizens that it is an old foreign exchange savings from the same 1999 Vucic-Dacic-Nikolic coalition, which destroyed Serbia. And today, Serbian citizens have the consequences of these and such bad decisions since 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12800	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, not Antic, you have violated a member, or a member of 104th and 107th, the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Milojicic talked about everything. It's just not about the agenda. As far as I know, Greater Serbia and the borders of Greater Serbia are not the subject of the agenda, but I don't mind, of course, talking about it. But if you're already talking, then you should've told the right person what the limits are. You yourself say you don't have enough time and how you're fast about it, so maybe that's why you said Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovitica, and that's Karlobag-Ogulin-Carlovac-Virovitica. I, right to tell you, Mr. Milojicic, expected Mr. Arsic to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12802	No personal address, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12803	... as an experienced radical who spent 20 years fighting for Greater Serbia, the first to interrupt you. Another thing, the dignity of the National Assembly. When you talk about what you've learned all these former radicals that you've pro-Europeanly transformed, that's the biggest problem, you've taught them everything you've done and they repeat everything you've done. That is the essence of the problem in which Serbia -- 15 years of the Continuity of the DOS regime -- is sixteen, and we are entering the 17th. So you're ideological clones. It wouldn't be a problem if they were what they used to be, but the problem is they took the worst...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12804	Comrade Sarovic, can you explain to me what this has to do with the 107th member you're advertising?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12805	With the dignity of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12806	Yes, with the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12807	I'm just looking back at my education... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12808	So, Mr. Sarovic, political views could endanger the dignity of the National Assembly? I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic, from the "Can I have a word?" No, no, no, According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12809	Ambassador Sarovic has mixed the members of the Rules of Procedure. That's where you were supposed to react first. Just about the agenda point, it's Article 106, it's neither 103 nor 107, but it doesn't matter. He said what he said, he just didn't say what you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 says that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point that we are trying to discuss today, those who have a good will and a desire to talk about the agenda. But, an MP from the DS, I can't remember exactly the name, you know who I meant, he talked about everything today, but he didn't talk about any agenda points. So you've had to react and help your fellow MP that now that we've moved away in this term, understand what the agenda is and what our duty is. First, so that viewers, or citizens of Serbia, understand what we are discussing. You know, if he could talk once about the agenda point, I'm convinced that Serbian TV and other television with national frequencies would definitely invite him to some thematic show, because he could talk about the essence of some topic. This way they can't call him because of the editorial policy, because those shows wouldn't be seen. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12810	Thank you. I completely agree with you, but he's young and he'll learn. Are you asking for the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12811	It's not your fault he doesn't know the agenda, so I can't blame you, but please warn him next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12812	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12813	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advertising Article 108. You had to mention the previous pay phone, which I can't remember, I'm sorry, last name and last name, because she was talking about what I was saying in my presentation. I was talking about the Public Sector Payments Act. I was talking about Petrochemia. I was talking about paying classes in the Serbian Army. I don't know what's wrong with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12814	Comrade Milojic, you've spent all your time with your MP group, just to tell you, and of the six or seven minutes you've been saying, you've only been talking for 45 seconds about the laws you've been listing, so I congratulate you on that. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, again based on the mention of the party. I agree here to say that you need to help your colleagues. It should be helped always, as it is said, and when it comes to this initiation of replicas again, maybe we should help again by sharing some wisdom, some conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, a little lizard when carried with a strong desire to become a crocodile should know that strong desire is not enough. It is also necessary to choose working conditions appropriately. You can't become a crocodile in a little bar that's getting smaller and smaller over time and drying more and more. This freely, Mr. Chairman, you take as my comment on the subject of the party. It may be a particular lesson. The recitation we heard memorized, spoken in breath with many mistakes along the way, but my God, it reminded me of what another man on the same side of the hall demonstrated, maybe a minute before that. You know what? On that anecdote when a student is about to answer the biology lesson, so learn the lesson - the worms, convinced that someone will ask him that question. Then he comes in front of the professor and he asks him what you know about the elephant. Well, then, the student sweats, sweats and says – an elephant is an animal that has big eyes, and with those big eyes he can see the glider and then he starts talking about the worm. When someone learns the same text here, one and the same song whatever is on the agenda and then just looks at how to find enough space to deliver that song – because it's just as interesting and wise as that student from that story. As far as the questions of shame are concerned, 2016. It's a shame that someone mentions anything military in this country, and they don't remember the military pensions they mutilated for 200 million. It's a shame that the same one doesn't know the difference between a TV taxi and a TV subscription, and as a national MP. And if we don't lie to each other, it's a disgrace to have anything to do with your face and the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12816	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. He's not here. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. I'm sorry, I didn't see, the word has Nedjo Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12817	I thank the chairman. It has been told by speakers on my right that among other MPs, the SPS and SPS are humiliating this parliament. I'm just asking that speaker what? Is this dedicated work today in terms of agenda points that are extremely significant and where we have to adopt a very significant set of laws. Is it because we're going to work on 1,400 amendments that I'm not sure are meaningful enough or pointless or meaningful, but are mostly over 90% by the opposition. Is it even fair and moral to talk about a man who was a minister of energy, and a speaker who talks about him doesn't even know that man, so it's a shame to talk about him that way. I'd like to ask you if you know who the minister was before that minister was the Minister of Energy? Do you know who the Minister of Energy was in 2000? Do you know who led this ministry and who led the ministry that passed and proposed the Privatisation Act that generated the economic cemetery in which Serbia today lives? Does that ring a bell? Do you know that the SPS gave you an oxygen bottle to stay in political life from 2008 to 2012? Does that ring a bell? If you know that, it's at least fair and moral to talk about the SPS this way. Please, the chairman, I did not advertise the Rules of Procedure even though I could in future sanction such political discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12818	The party's words are now being mentioned by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12819	So it's logical that you give me a replica for mentioning DS. My colleague Milojic mentioned, because, as a provoked replica of the 2009 Energy Minister, the current minister was part of the government and Milojic gave one logical suggestion that you were talking with responsibility and about the period during which you were wearing part of the responsibility in the government. It's quite human and normal and it's not in any way offensive, because we've listened to constant arguments here, what in the previous period, and the previous government. This government had a previous government that accounted for 90% of exactly this current government, and the previous government had a previous government that also accounted for 90% of the previous government. Three governments exchanged. Constantly referring to the responsibility of some previous governments, we can return to the period that Milojic was talking about, and he talked about the old foreign savings. Do you think that the then government, the SPS and the coalition that it had done a good thing for Serbia in 1991, 1992, with the declaration of old foreign savings and with damage and with public debt which until now, by 2016, Serbia should pay and realise. Are you proud of that period? At this period of 4.2 billion, which has been renovated by the new law since 2002, are you proud of the periods that have exhausted us as a country, where we treat all these consequences all these years. So, go from your own responsibility, and I think that coalition that you were talking about, the coalition that didn't leave in DS or saved, as you said before, is something that the DS took on by building a partnership. I think she was building a proper partnership on her part, and she would never talk about that period and her partners that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12820	Right on the line, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12821	I thank the chairman. The Socialist Party of Serbia has gone through numerous temptations and challenges as one of the oldest parties on Serbia's political scene, catharsis and many other things and has remained on its feet and today is where it is unlike the DS that is where it is. As for our period as he was, I just need to draw your attention to one fact that you can't question. The Socialist Party of Serbia in 2008 had the right to vote and in that election it was defined to save you. That's what she did, unfortunately. Unfortunately, today, when viewed from this angle, from the aspect of the position in which the SPS is aware that it is wrong, it is also aware that in power it survives where it belongs and where the European path thanks to the contribution of the SPS will be faster. Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12822	You no longer have the right to a replica, Mr. Ciric. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12823	Mr. Milojicic tried to make me look like someone's pet. Mr. Milojich, as far as I can tell, you're a pet here. You got your geography lesson, you got your biology lesson, so I see you're a pet here. On all sides, they love and respect and train you very much. Now joking aside, I must say that indeed my colleague Milojicic, in my opinion, tried in a very incorrect way to politically paint some of my discussions which were primarily answers to the question or comments of the MPs who tried in one way to honor as a burden to this government 105m euros that are returning through the Public Debt Act. Without any politicalization, without any characterization of the previous governments, I was obliged to do so both for this home and for the government I am sitting in and for the public to specify the exact period in which the debt occurred. I did not say that a government was disastrous, nor that it worked disastrously, but I did not give to the government in which I was sitting from the point of view of making a debt in Petrochem, because I very precisely stated in which years the debt was created and very precisely stated that in the term of this government there was not a dinar of debt and that in the mandate of this government these same "Petrochemia" under the new conditions of work that we dictated, it achieved positive business and "Ebid" and they were really for respect, and I expect you to comment on that too. When you make me enter that policy when I talk about Petrochemy, I run away from politics when it comes to Petrochemy, because this is too important a question for us to politicise it and to push it into the daily-political dust, because I repeat, this is 300m euros in annual business of which 250m goes to export and it is really capitalal for this country's economy. I must say, with the great respect of Professor Skundric, he was not in charge of Petrochemy. "Petrochemicals" is not part of the energy sector, but is an economic activity, and I am engaged in "Petrochemicals" because on this issue I have been empowered by the Prime Minister to conduct negotiations with the NIS regarding, repeat, write-off, interest, conversion of the share of the claim into the capital of Petrochemy and the provision of a 10-year contract under favourable conditions and favourable circumstances, so that if I were to enter into that if I were afraid that anyone was responsible or not, Professor Škundric is definitely not that because, I repeat, it was not in his respective jurisdiction. Indeed, I am trying to choose words and, on such important issues, not to enter into that squawk of political bickering, but if you attack the government in which I am sitting because of the 105 million, I will always and every 100 times and a thousand times repeat it very precisely in the dinar or euro at which time the debt was created and repeat that this government is leading a responsible economic policy when this country is concerned and that we are paying back the debts that occurred in the previous period and that this is our obligation for the future and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12824	Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12825	Mr. Minister, neither me nor the Democratic Party is taught by anyone. The Democratic Party has had a clear path for 27 years, a direction, a goal. She may have made mistakes, but there's not a single decision that should make DS ashamed. No DS decision has made us bombed, no lives are lost, our country is not destroyed. That's the difference between DS and other parties here. It's not fair. Is it politically profitable? Yes, it is. And, yes, everything takes over DS which was bad from 2008 to 2012, for nothing the SPS was guilty of, but you didn't rehabilitate us then, as the previous speaker said, or saved us. Let me remind you, the DS then received 39% in the election, so there was no one to save DS. We can speak politically further, I just don't think it's correct. I repeat once again to the Democratic Party, no one ever in these 27 years and no one will teach lessons in the future, because DS is either the first in power and all the burden of good and bad moves is taking over on itself or is the first, as it is today, in opposition and never agrees and has ever agreed to be a leg mat for any prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12826	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12827	I don't remember anything about that time of serious DS and serious people sitting in that party, and I have to tell you, I have to admit. And I have to say, while you're up to this point a little bit and insolent towards me, and I didn't get into the political arena with you here, I'm talking about "Petrochemicals"... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Not you, but your colleagues. I know, but you were talking to me. My friend Milojic, focus a little on what you're doing. I have to say, I don't see these serious people in the DS right now when you're making me talk about it. The Socialist Party of Serbia is indeed an ugly thing to say that it has caused the bombing by its decisions. It was part of this country's policy, one sad episode in our history, and it's time for historians, not those who weren't even part of political life when those decisions were made. Although I must recall some episodes from that sad period during which some have looked forward to this bombing and may have called upon it a little bit, but it is part of a policy and a time when the court gives little voter, and first of all it should give history, and not you and me in our region, which may be a little bit emotional at this point. I have to say that the SPS never hid behind the DS, because you really weren't the umbrella under which the SPS and that idea she represented could ever stand, like we're not hiding right now. We have our political path, our political life, our political strength which was also very great, was also very modest, but it is us and we are fighting for our ideas and believe me that this idea will be much stronger in the time that comes from the one you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12828	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12829	I think that, Mr. Chairman, here I am speaking to you, it is truly inappropriate for the minister to speak to us in this way as MPs and DS – you are giving lessons and you are talking about unworthy people you don't see here, sitting in the benches of the DS Parliament Club. I don't think anyone in this room is allowed to share that kind of qualifications with anyone in the O.R. To you, and to all ministers, we treat ministers and all our fellow Members politely, and we will continue to do so. Nor will we qualify anyone in the future in this way that you qualified people like you here right now. What you just said about the DS people who at some point called the bombing in 1999 is an insult we can't get past. You have to testify to your personal lives, each of us. Here, I'll testify to you with my life. The Democratic Party was the bravest when it fought for peace in the 1990s and when it spoke of peace. At the time, it was most dangerous to talk about peace, but when we were attacked in 1999, I was the chairman of the DS City Committee in Nis, I put on a uniform and was on missile units in Kosovo and Metohija. I can't get past such insults. This is a personal insult. I want you to apologize for that. I think it's a turn, because no one in this room could ever wish for, as many were accused, to put their children's locators under their pillows, and we went through it. No one in their right mind wants to do that to their child, to their relatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12830	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12831	... his brothers and sisters, his citizens in all of Serbia. And this is really inappropriate. I demand an apology, a sincere apology for this. You'll never experience this kind of thing from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12832	Since I have been called in one piece, Mr. Kiric, as chairman, as chairman, I will answer you. I let the minister say so because his colleague Milojic accused him of being responsible for the bombing of Serbia. So you can't have double standards. Minister Alexander Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12833	First of all, in front of this high house, I must perhaps agree that I have come out of the minister's discussion, in relation to the members of parliament, and, above all, to the MPs in that section, I apologize. Mr. Milojicic spoke to me himself. He wasn't talking to the SPS. If he had spoken to the SPS, he would have taken a detour with his colleague Jovanovic. He addressed Minister Antic, with very heavy and very specific accusations, which I, I'm sorry, and as a political being, had to answer. I apologize to you, my colleague, personally, because I highly appreciate you, and I know you're a great patriot.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12834	In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a two-minute break to calm down a little passion. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with our work. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12836	Thank you, Chairman. I'm just asking you first to give me conditions for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12837	I ask my colleagues to allow Mr Filipovic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12838	Either we do what's right, or we just don't have to work. I think the National Assembly deserves us all to treat it together with much more respect than some fellow MPs do. But by spending time outside the bench and making small talk and smiling at each other, they might hear something, maybe learn something. At first, I want to welcome the ministers who are with us today, Madam Minister, to say that I will support all the laws that are proposed here and, of course, look back at what I want to discuss today. It's a public media service fee. This is all that is said today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the topic of editing the editorial policy of RTS, RTTV, media freedom, media presence and how some see the media image, the media scene in the Republic of Serbia. As some who have spoken about the media see media and public service, it is precisely those who today have criticised what we say that they do not want to listen. But Serbia's citizens will hear in a delayed transmission, i.e. The tape. Some people say today, they ask a question -- what do we need a public media service tax anyway? Well, when such a question arises and we strive to be a normal, civilized, European-developed society, then we must also strive for those values, those things that serve these developed European societies. In the UK, for example, the subscription is a basic source of BBC funding, by subscribed annually, to the UK to raise slightly more than 1.2 billion pounds, which accounts for about 70% of the BBC budget. In Germany, there is also a subscription that citizens pay for public media services. In France, too, the subscription is the main source of funding for a public media service. We can also go to the region where our country is. In Albania, for example, a tax on TV possession and radio receivers has been charged since 1998 on here, in Croatia we heard today, in Slovenia, Macedonia, Bosnia, Montenegro, everywhere. So, if this is something that is practice in 90%, I feel free to say, the state of Europe, I don't see why Serbia should be an exception. If we want to have media that are offering us something, if we want to have a public service with educational programs, shows, movies, that's worth something, someone has to pay. The fact is that RTS alone cannot collect complete money. That's why we as citizens have to help, and that's a symbolic sum of 150 dinars per month, to help our public media service. Some said they weren't even present at the public media service, that they weren't anywhere. You know what, if you and those would show up a little more often in public media service, on shows, not just in the Assembly, I don't think they'd even have enough percentages to meet in the Serbian Parliament. So it's also a good thing citizens don't have a chance, as they say, and I think they have a chance to show up on shows, have a chance to hear in direct transmissions the session of the Assembly of Citizens, see what politics is, what ideas, what programs are, and in this way perhaps the best grades that work. It is through the opportunity for citizens to see direct transfers of the Serbian Parliament, where laws are explained, to hear some other ideas and suggestions, that is why people went to the elections, gave super-partial support, over 50% of the list led and led by Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. There are things absolutely clear. There's no dilemma. When it comes to economics, I will return to the public media service again, and that nothing is right, when we talk about financial laws today, and that nothing has been done in the previous four years, much has been done. Some said they didn't physically kill anyone during their government. It may not have been such an event, but that's why they buried Serbia economically, which is why they destroyed our country, so they destroyed our businesses, which is why they're in charge of public enterprises, so they're in charge of Serbia up to their necks. So much for those economic experts. What did the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do with Alexander Vukic by the end of 2016? For example, unemployment in 2012, according to official statistics, was over 26%, perhaps even higher. At the end of 2016, according to official statistics available to the Republic of Serbia, and I guess we trust the official institutions of our country, if we are parties fighting and arguing that we have institutions that are independent, responsible for citizens, unemployment today in the Republic of Serbia is 16%, and the goal of this government, as we heard when it was formed, is that unemployment falls below 10% at the end of the government's term, led by Aleksandar Vucic. Furthermore, 2012 growth was negative, minus 3.6. Today it's 2.8% growth, and maybe there'll be 3% at the end of this year. We expect growth to go over 3% from next year and up to 4% from next year. We can also talk about employment. The factories from 2014 to 2016 opened in Serbia over 40 new factories, private factories, private jobs, where citizens of the Republic of Serbia work. Those who were out of work from 2000 to 2012, of course, that was before. We can also talk about the latest positive results of this government. This is what concerns Serbia's Modernised Army, which has received six new planes, which introduces new modern, modern weapons, so that it can have safe skies, so that it can ensure the future...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12839	Mr Filipovic, let's talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12840	Of course, it's all about finance. Roads. More roads are now being built than ever in Serbia's history. As the SNS, as some said, keeps the media under control and keeps the public media service under control, it is seen during election campaigns, and it is seen every day when you have the least news or key news where SNS representatives come out and speak, especially the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. Of course, some complain there's no law on the origin of the property. I left it on purpose for the end. I can't wait for that law to come because then we'll know where that money that went missing through the privatisations, through the robbery, through the kidnapping from 2000 to today, until 2012. Where's the money? For some, it is better that this law is not called upon because then, I believe, it will run out of much of what it is today, with expensive cars, villas, houses, etc., which are held in its possessions. Don't even invoke the law on the origin of the property. Don't run to public media service. The more you chase into the media, the less you get. You'd better hide somewhere in a mouse hole so the citizens don't see you and don't look at you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12841	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. There's no more time for a parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, I can have a partial understanding, given the extensive and exhausted agenda, that it is difficult to control when a speaker comes out of the context of what is the subject of the debate, or agenda. One of the previous speakers, and without confusion, I mean the previous speaker who was recognized in Orlic's anecdotes around lizards and worms, has gone too far today. It is obvious that he, the previous speaker, saw this session today as a means for who to know which way again to make a false accusation, again disagrees on the account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the expense of the SNS, of course, for some insult, but we have already gotten used to it, we have Googled it, so we will not particularly resent it. I think that speaker is the last person in the Assembly who has the right, moral, and everything else, to honor this government and the SNS. I think he's absolutely the last person. Why would I think that? Because in the period when he managed his municipality, and it was Smederevska Palanka, he made a debt of three billion dinars. I'm glad Mrs. Brnabic is with us today, because she was in Smederjevska Palanca a few days ago and she announced the fraternizing data. So, I will read a media report – Smederjevska Palanka and Prokuplje as if they were in bankruptcy, which is the title. The Smederovska Palanka, with about 50,000 inhabitants, had 820 municipalities, and three billion dinars were in charge, which is an inherited situation that is now being resolved, which hopefully we will be able to resuscitate after his government. They have 19 public utility companies and they're all blocked. Schools, hospitals, drugstores, it's all blocked. So, a paralyzed city, a blocked city, a city in bankruptcy, a city in bankruptcy. When one public utility goes bankrupt, they open another and they reach number 19. It must be put on the road, said the minister who is with us today, therefore, Mrs. Brnabic. I would say one more sentence, the same opportunity was when she visited the municipality as minister, a very difficult financial situation in Smederjevska Palanca. The first thing he has to prepare is a consolidation plan. There is serious and urgent rationalisation, debt reprogramme and work to increase the municipality's income. The assistance of the Serbian government is possible, but only after preparing a recovery plan that we will work on together with the municipality, and I will add to the new municipal administration. What we managed to inherit from the previous speaker is huge debts, it's bankruptcy, it's a bottomless hole. Three billion dinars, then. I will give an example of how, without the public procurement procedure implemented, they took over obligations and paid for services without any written contract of 24 million, more than 24 million dinars. So imagine the situation that the municipality for a job, to perform some work, without any contract, without a tender assigned a job to a company, I just don't know how, probably verbally, because there's no written clue, no contract, over 24 million dinars. It's obvious, it's an eclectic example of how things worked while running the Smederian Palanca in the previous speaker and he's trying to challenge the government's results today. We've heard all sorts of attempts here to show some guilt about some condition in something. We're talking about public finances, so there's never been a better situation in public finances. We've never had a cleaner state of public finances than we've had lately. Shall we talk about employment? There was never a lower rate and a lower unemployment rate, between 15% and 16% is the state of unemployment in Serbia, and there was, what, 26%. Do we want to talk about taxes? It's a record tax charge. It's never been this tax collection lately. Are we talking investment? Well, only in this year is over 1.4 billion euros of foreign direct investment. Only this year. And they're facts, they're facts. I know it hurts both the previous speaker and some others present, but these are facts and these are the results of this government that you cannot challenge. You absolutely have no argument for that. And what's obvious, Mr. Chairman, if you've carefully followed his discussion, is one of the only objections that has been made here today, and that's a large agenda, and that's what we've combined 27 points of the agenda, so that's the only regret he's had here today. And in their time, I will refer to what Mrs. Tomic said today, so only in May 2010, at one session united 94 points and to the joy of the previous speaker, one of those 94 points was the bill of beer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12843	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12844	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today is a very important set of financial laws ahead of us, and I would like to ask my colleague, simply to continue. Today, a very important set of financial laws and colleagues is ahead of us, and before me they talked a lot about, first of all because they were made and proposed very good solutions for all citizens of Serbia, especially for sensitive categories of our society, as we have heard about children, mothers with children, then persons with disabilities, where through customs law increases the scope of protection and assistance, tax relief for heating is reduced, and we will probably hear a lot more about it from speakers who will talk after me. I would refer to two bill proposals that, in my opinion, are so unwarranted today. Namely, it is the draft laws, i.e. the Agreement and the Loan Treaty for the Continuing Construction of Parts of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. I am sorry that there has been very little talk today, although we all know that these corridors, that is, parts of highways passing through our country, which are parts of these corridors, the drivers of our economic development, the drivers of the development of our economy, the social development and everything we expect to be good in our country. I am sorry that today these two laws have been spoken by individual opposition MPs in the sense that these are very unwarranted borrowings of our country. In some ways, I think it's a real shame that we have to talk about this again today and that we have to borrow this money, but those who have had a chance to build these corridors, and who have had a chance to invest all that huge money they've received from privatisation in these infrastructure projects, they've invested in regular costs, patching holes, and today they're saying why these corridors haven't finished. Just since this government led by Alexander Vukic has taken over these affairs these corridors are ending and we will finally have a pan-European corridor through our country, we will have the construction of highways and we will be connected both within our Serbia and the world. Let me remind you what this is all about. So we have an agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with our Republic of Serbia, which approved two types of loans. So one is an investment loan that is the one for reconstruction, i.e. to continue the construction of Corridor 10, i.e. part of a 35m-euro highway, and another is a programme loan, which is very important, which is the support of our budget and where money will be provided through this loan to help create a good business investment where the goal is to develop the private sector, to disburse state institutions and to be employed. What is very important to mention is that we have received all the praise from the World Bank's chiefs for how our country is progressing, so let's not forget that this year we have found ourselves very high, for us unexpected, 47 places, and that the Chief of the World Bank predicted that in two, three years we are certainly among the first 20 countries, which is truly amazing at this moment, but we believe that it will be realistic by this work, diligence and this kind of results so far. It's very important to mention that they know what it means. The moment we get as much on this scale as possible, when we're among the first 20 countries on the World Duming Business List, it's going to mean that we're going to be much more attractive to investors, that we're going to be much more attractive to trade, to transit, to tourism, and to all that brings the development of a country. So, this loan agreement was signed in 2009 and they signed what they said today about why you borrow money, and of course it wasn't built, the money was not used properly, so in 2016 it proved to be withdrawn, that it meant the used loan was around 82%. The fact is, there were delays and there were problems. They mostly manifested themselves by 2012, I admit there were some reasons he couldn't control man, such as weather conditions, such as geomorphological characteristics of that field, and there must also be a change of course, but in any case the most human negligence, impedience, opening up a variety of businesses, public, moving balls from one to another responsibility so that today we are lucky enough to talk that Corridor 10 is finished and that Serbia doesn't have to take this 35 million loan, but it takes it just because experts said that someone didn't well predict how much money it would take, how much money it would take to build this Corridor so that these 35 million is necessary. What's very important is that this money is being spent very transparently, that this money can't be withdrawn at once, as the opposition MP said, so that someone spends just so they don't know where the money went and that someone else comes back. It's not that kind of loan. So this is where the World Bank, i.e. the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, asks for Serbia to deliver exact conditions, to give regular reports, means to prevent corruption, it involves regular and projects, project reports and financial reports, and, of course, regular audits, so that corruption is reduced to the least possible measure. What this Corridor will provide us with is to meet at the centre of the Trans-European Corridor, which connects seven countries from Austria to Greece and what is very important is that Serbia, which has been surrounded for many years, and I often like to point out, when once the road is routed, even if it has been longer, somehow people go through that path. It will take a long time for everyone in the region to get used to going through Serbia, and it is Corridor 10 that will lead to this. According to budgets, about hundreds of millions of euros will remain only from tolls and what foreigners in our country will leave through transit, which will increase, of course, and improve tourism. I'd like to say a quick word about this other contract. It is a loan to continue, i.e. to build a section of the Surcin-Obrenovac road, which just belongs to the stock, a complete road, from the highway from Belgrade to Preljina. We're witnessing that this part that's recently been opened from LJg to Preljina has been very well brought to life. I'm a witness and I'm someone who uses it every day. So how much does that 40 kilometers mean, and especially I have to say that everyone who goes that way has agreed to become aware of it, and of security, and of safety, and of the relief of the road, the moment we shut off from it on the highway, only then do we see how much it actually seems to you on the highway that it's empty, and when you turn off on the highway you realize how important it is. We are all looking forward to having this part of the highway put into full operation soon, so from Belgrade to Preljina. I want to support all these loans, and I'm sure all my SNS colleagues agree. First of all, because all highways in our country are profitable, they represent a profitable branch of the economy and not just highways, but all traffic. So these loans are justifiable and full support for all the laws, and especially for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12845	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12846	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I will dedicate my exposure exclusively to candidates for members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. According to the Law on Electronic Media and the Statute of this allegedly independent body, candidates in this regulatory body must be independent and these must be people known in media professions. We have four candidates to choose from this time. By accurate insight into their biographies, we can see that three out of four do not meet these criteria, that they are not experts who are recognized in the media, nor are they people who have ever dealt with the media. I wouldn't name some here, because I don't think it's right now, but I'm going to ask all of you publicly, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to ask ourselves, what does a man who was once the director of the city's traffic company with the media have to do with it? When we talked to the candidates, we saw that none of the candidates had ever dealt with the media the way this regulatory body prescribed it. What is particularly dangerous and what is a safe introduction in four years of absolute media darkness is a potential choice, and I believe that, unfortunately, this man will choose the potential election of Goran Petrovic, who is the current deputy president of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Which is why I'm saying that four years of darkness will follow us in case this man is elected, and unfortunately I believe he will be elected? He has, in fact, been in this body since 2011, and since then has been able to prevent the full media ink he has been ruling in our media since 2012. He didn't do it. In fact, since 2012, we have had an unremembered abuse of media for political purposes. We have the influence of the most primitive, the most ground-based and devastating media content, which and how it affects all of our country's citizens. In order to prove that this body is not independent, as are the members of this regulatory body, I would have to mention and illustrate it by just one example. Namely, the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media was under obligation, according to its statute, which is not their statute, but uses the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which was abolished two years ago, so that this body still does not have the statute under which it operates, but under the Law on Electronic Media REM was obliged to supervise and control the work of media service providers during the media campaign. Of course, respecting media laws and respecting media ethics. What does it matter? To see which political actors at which percentage were represented in the information shows of all televisions. They were obliged to publish the report, to see that there were no abuses of current political functions, to see which parties were the most represented and who abused its current political function during the election campaign. It's December now, the election was April 24th, and we still don't have that report. The report is needed to see that during the pre-election campaign there has been a flagrant violation of all possible media and all possible reporting rules. When I asked candidate Goran Petrovic on the Culture Committee what was going on with the report, he tried to deceive me and other board members, saying REM had submitted a report on advertising during the election campaign. The advertising report during the election campaign is not the same as the report on broadcaster surveillance. So I also asked him what's going on with the report? We have reliable information that this report is over. He claimed that they were not really obliged to deliver that report. In that case, Goran Petrovic, as the current deputy president of the Board of Regulators, or has violated the statutes of the Regulatory Body, or the Republic Broadcasting Agency, given that his statutes are being used, or have disobeyed the statutes since their work is public, or has violated the Law on Electronic Media which requires them to control the work of the broadcaster. What's also a tragic thing about REM, that you don't think that I'm just dealing with their political work, that's to say, I have to mention that they were obliged to protect minors from any destructive media content that, according to the Law on Electronic Media, refers to any content that could endanger a moral, spiritual or physical minor. By 2013, they had not published a report where we would see the devastating influence of the media on children. Regarding this report, I would only return to the broadcast report once more, if for the first time since 2003 that report had not been published. With that, back to the point, REM is a deeply controlled body. We don't have an independent body to control the media. In the situation where next year's elections are coming to us, this situation is very devastating and terribly dangerous. So, I propose to my fellow Members of Parliament that we refrain from voting or vote against the proposed candidates. Because in case we choose them, we have a secure media dark, we have secure media control, and REM is exactly the body that keeps the current government in power, because it allows maximum abuse of political and financial control of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12847	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister Antic, since I was denied the right to answer the last time you spoke about my presentation, I will now take the opportunity. You communists have always had that wing – statistics on our dick, whatever you want, that picture. You were talking about the price of electricity, so as an example of how good we really are in Serbia, how low the price is, you said it was in Denmark 30 cents. That's not true either, they have 29 cents, but there's another problem. The problem is that their average salary is 5,000 euros. In Serbia, too, if citizens had an average salary of 5,000 euros, they would run to pay one kilowatt of electricity of 29 cents. I'm surprised you didn't mention Norway, there's a cheaper current there, but there's an average salary of over 6,000 euros, about 6300 euros. So don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. If you compare something, then compare the right things. Secondly, the methodology for calculating electricity prices. In Denmark, they have not heard of what you call a busy force. Indeed, you in Denmark would not have known what a busy force was to try to explain to someone. One more thing, in Denmark, they do not punish those who spend more electricity, so that they may say if you spend more than 700 kilowatts or 1000 kilowatts, then your kilowatt will be three times more expensive. Electricity is as much a commodity as any other and indeed this economic logic to punish one who spends more, I think it's really some rest we need to get rid of as soon as possible. But to go back to the laws that there really are plenty. One more thing, so I wouldn't forget it, since you're an RTS agent, so you talked about how they have hours and hours of programs, days and months, you know, the best citizens of Serbia know what it is and how bad the RTS programme is. If we're talking about a cultural and educational program, you remember the shows that were on RTS programs when we grew up, you and I, and compare with what it has today, or what it doesn't have today. Maybe it is a "Better Life" good show, a nice show, and "The Truckers" are a nice show, but that doesn't mean we have to watch those shows forever. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, you are making changes to the law that entered into force on 7 January 2016. It says in the best possible way how professional you are and how much you are able, or how unable you are to overlook anything. Why is this law an emergency procedure? What are the circumstances you couldn't predict? Of course, there are no circumstances, it's just a flossula you're using, you put in an emergency procedure and we move on. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, and that is another delay in the deadline that has expired. I will remind you that this law came into force in 2011 and that the deadline for the application was five years. In the beginning, a broad deadline, perhaps too wide. I think that's one of the reasons why nothing was done. They say, five years, oh, too long, someone else will do it. If you had set a deadline of a year or two, then eventually extended it for another year or two, this job would probably have been done. The question is why do you think in a year those who have failed in five years will do the job, why will they succeed next year? Most of the SNS personnel are headed by these local self-governments. They say they want more money, they need more money, and apparently they can't even care about what they've been given. And another issue that shows the indifference and incompetence in the first order of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The deadline you're extending is up. It expired on 6 October 2016. How is the right extension of the expiry date? You had to put this on the Assembly's agenda three months ago, then extend it. Now you're doing something that's retroactive, but it's really not a problem either. And, here, seeing as Mrs. Brnabic listens to me carefully except for moments, I think this would be a good time to do a little experiment with your honesty, see if you agree and if you, you're a lawyer, because that's how it is? You didn't? Economist? It doesn't matter, I guess you're a man with common sense. Will you stand by the emergency procedure of this law? If the deadline started in 2011, it expired on 6 October 2016, is that a circumstance that could not be overlooked? Did that surprise you? Be honest and say no, or don't be, drive and you as well as the ruling majority wouldn't surprise us either. Then he says, the bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, whether or not believed, by emergency procedure. Here you are saying that you have been harmonising with the EU Council Directive since 21 June 2011. The directive was passed five and a half years ago and it is also an unforeseen circumstance. I'm really surprised that any of you government is coming home, if you're absolutely not able to predict anything. How do you cross the street? How do you avoid cars? How come you don't fall down the stairs? When it comes to the state administration, you can't do anything, and you're saying that you're the best government in the world, and again and again, you're coordinating with the EU, and you're saying that there has to be a 90-euro excise charge per 1,000 pieces of cigarettes, or 1.8 euros per pack of cigarettes. But again, we are in trouble that Serbia is far from the European standard, really far away. It can't be the same excise. It can't, because if income is 10 or 15 times higher, and excise is the same, then the excise duty is actually five or 10, or 15 times higher in Serbia. I am a former smoker and an opponent of smoking, but I'm really not into economic terror over smokers, and it can't be the only way to get the nations out of smoking by raising your excise duty. This is actually about one goal, and you admit it in the reasons for the adoption of the law, and it's actually a budget charge and nothing else, and here, just tell me, of course, but when you prove, of course, you from the ruling coalition. It just shows your haughtiness and passion, which you no longer hide how boastful you are and how much ossion you are. Answer nicely, have political courage, so instead of throwing like cowards, you answer, and then say that about the pay phone. So you're saying, the reasons for passing this law by an urgent procedure is that you need to secure additional revenues in the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget by increasing excise duties on cigarettes and creating, and these coffee excises, and now I'm asking you -- what is it that you couldn't predict here, and why do you desperately need new revenues if you convince us that the budget is stable, if you convince us that you have a surplus? Let's see where this surplus is finally at, what are you spending it on, why are you taking from the pensioners, why are you taking from other endangered categories if the state of the country and the Republic of Serbia is so good? You have this problem that the hour state is idyllic. We have just heard from the ruling coalition MPs that the state of public finances has never been cleaner, it has never been better. The only thing we can't see is the final bill, it's so clean that there's no final bill. And it's so good that the Republic of Serbia has never been more in charge than it is today. Yesterday, Serbia's public debt was slightly over 3,100 billion dinars, over 3,100 billion. Here, Mr. Krasic follows it every day. I suppose you'll raise the total today, and we'll hear about it later and how much. Then you continue to talk, i.e. the next proposal is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Believe it or not, this law is an emergency procedure. All legal proposals go according to emergency procedures. You couldn't have predicted this would be necessary either. It doesn't take a forecast of five years or three years or two or a year, 15 days was enough for a regular procedure and you weren't able to write what you wrote on December 19th and then go into a regular procedure. And, you say, the National Assembly is not good enough, the laws don't pass fast enough, the problem of living badly in the country is the opposition. What was certainly most discussed was the abolition of this VAT vomit to buy food and baby equipment. I know that you will immediately say that a second solution is now proposed, that it should not deal with social donations of the VAT Act and so on, that you will solve it in another way by making it a one-time giving. But there's something else, and it's political responsibility. You are all gentlemen, I am also talking about the ruling parties and the opposition, and in 2012 before the parliamentary elections, you have all, except for the SRS, deceived the citizens of Serbia that you will not cut down, not allow a refund of the part of the unpaid VAT, but that you will abolish VAT for equipment and food for babies. Is that what happened? That's what happened. How'd it go? You deceived the citizens of Serbia. When the elections went through, you said and signed a public petition, it was days in the media, citizens remember that. When the elections passed, you said – yes, but that is not possible by law, although it is not true that it is not possible, because it is possible. What I think is even more important is that argument, it's impossible to abuse baby equipment. It is impossible to abuse baby food by you Aptimil or any other baby milk artificially liberating the VAT. How can that be misused? What anyone can do by buying, I don't know how many. He can't do anything. And you owe us one more thing, if you're already talking about amending this law. I think you're obliged to tell us what the effects of the law you've been implementing for the past four years were. There was a possibility of a VAT refund. Come on, we've even been warned when that law was passed, Mr. Arsic yours is not to disturb me, it's yours to warn these others who are distracting me, and I ask you not to speak to the ministers. So, the ministers know there's no need for you to educate them. They know, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12849	But you don't know, so let me help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12850	I'd like to talk about the subject, but you're bothering me. You're disturbing the ministers, too, but they're embarrassed to tell you. Here, they're looking at me, they're making a significant climate, and now they're saying, "Yes, let's just shut up." Now, let's see what the effects of law enforcement are over the past four years. Let's see how many people, how many families have achieved VAT refunds compared to the number of babies born in Serbia, to see what the amount of VAT returned is on average. I guarantee that's far below what you promised. And it once again shows your insecureness and shows that when you promise, when you go to elections, you count briefly on the memory of Serbian citizens. The next law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Again, you will be surprised, and this law is under emergency procedure. Now, let's see what it was that was in this law that you couldn't predict. Special, let me say, the problem with all these laws is the completely pointless reasoning that you write. The problem is that you in the material write to us the name of most of these laws in English and that you are unable to... You have that reminder that says what to put in. When there's nothing, you have to throw it out. You, instead, in a large number of laws, leave that reminder, synopsis, draft, sketch, whatever you want, and then load the National Assembly. What do you predict with this law? Among other things, you're saying why law-making is the best way to solve a problem. He says: “The regulation of this matter makes a contribution to legal certainty and provides transparency in the conduct of tax policy. ” This has absolutely nothing to do with it. Then you teach us and say: The law is a general legal act which is revealed. Imagine, the law is a general legal act to be published? You found a hole in the pothole. Well done. This is what I think so far no one has known, unlike probably from other laws that are not being published. And he says: He creates equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same tax and legal situation, thus achieving transparency in application. What does that have to do with transparency? But you were attacked by the disease, as DOS's regime for a time, and they all used the term "transparent", "transparent", "transparent", "transparent", "transparent", "transparent". Well, you're transparent and transparent. There's another bigger nonsense. You have proposed amendments to the responsibility for resolution in the second degree and you say – thus the responsibility is prescribed for the second-degree body in the Ministry of Finance as an independent resolution authority in the second-degree tax procedure. An independent body at the Ministry of Finance? Imagine that nonsense? Come on, please, since you're experts, find in the Constitution where there's an independent body in the Ministry of Finance. It doesn't exist. (Verica Radeta, from town: In room 3.) Here, in room 3, says the squirrel. But really, some things have to be derised, because you always want someone to be independent. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, all ministries have been created and they exist, based on the principle of co-ordination. What black independence? Imagine, independent? From who? From the Prime Minister, the thunder of the sky? From the minister? Who are they independent of? Who are they independent of? Do they have independent editorial policies, like RTS, as Mr Antic says? Of course, the reasons for the emergency procedure, the right reasons, are neither here nor here, as there is no assessment of the financial resources needed to implement this law. I'm gonna have to speed up a little bit, 'cause we don't have much time. Here is point 11) “Petrochemicals. ” You are taking on another debt, another debt -- 105m euros or 13 billion dinars. I'll remind you that what you take on an annual level, be careful, on an annual level, is 20 billion pensioners. You take that too when you kidnap you say – it's a savings, but you have 13 billion for Petrochemy. What's the bigger problem? The problem is, you've boasted yourself that there's no similar facility within a thousand kilometers. If not, how could you ruin it, all of you together who have been in power for years and who jump from party to party? One more thing, who's gonna answer? The total debt of Petrochemija is 256m euros. You say you wrote something off. You couldn't from some of the foreign creditors, you could have been from public enterprises, but that still falls on the burden of Serbian citizens. Next law, the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the SRJ, and it's an emergency procedure. The main reason for the adoption of the law is that in November 2013, the Constitutional Court made a decision, so you must act on it and that the European Court of Human Rights published a decision on 16 July 2014 and you, after an emergency procedure, after more than two years, act on that decision of the European Court of Justice. So this isn't the circumstance that could surprise you. What's even more interesting, there's not even an estimate of financial resources here. She's gone. You say it will be provided, or here you say, that the obligations laid down by the basic law of 2002 are reduced, and you don't say an assessment of the financial resources needed to enforce the law. That's two different things. The draft public debt regulation law based on unpaid foreign savings was laid down by banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, their branches, etc., I can't even read everything. Although it is quite clear that certain funds will be needed, there is no estimate of the amount of financial resources and, more interestingly, you did not have enough emergency procedure here, you are asking that the law do not enter as usual, in accordance with the Constitution, on the eighth day of the day of publication, but the next day. In order for you gentlemen to do so, there must be particularly justified conditions which are particularly determined by law and these particularly justified conditions, it can be a higher force, it can be the interests of defence, the security of the country, and you are not and are not able to state it. The next law is the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the Surcin-Obrenovac highway. New assignment. Is the country in charge happy? We in every session of the National Assembly five, six, ten dots, but in each, new duties. $200 million in debt, not full, something small is missing. Two hundred million dollars is $23.7 billion of new dinars. With the 13, that's 40. That's already a double amount of what you took from the pensioners, and that's the price we pay to tell you that your government is successful and that you're building a lot of miles of highways, and you're not building citizens, citizens whose money this is, because they're going to pay these bills of what you're doing right now. The following law is a proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement. Again, a new 35m-euro debt, 4.34 billion dinars, and again so that you can be successful, so that you can build. It's nice to build, but there's something you need to provide. You can't do it all out of duty. You say - it's necessary. Yes, but how is it possible that only the pension money, and the pensions earned, for acquired rights that cannot be usurped, that it is possible that only it does not have to in Serbia and everything else has to. The next proposal is the loan agreement. Indebted 89.8m euros. That's another 11 billion euros and change. When we see for the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic how much we owe ourselves to build highways, then moreover, every reasonable observer has to wonder how it is possible that Zorana Mihajlovic is not receiving the salary, that she gave up the salaries. Well, she's got the 88-90 grand she'd take as a minister enough for one lunch. We saw that the ministry's lunch card paid a thousand euros a lunch in Belgrade, not New York. We also saw that she left several thousand euros in department stores in one place.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12851	A colleague of Sarovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12852	This is completely legitimate, Mr Anticu.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12853	It's about the responsibility for the corridors, not the cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12854	A completely legitimate question – why does the minister who flips billions not want a salary and lives a debauchery life? It's a question for every normal citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12855	Well, you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12856	How is it possible that the minister... Well, I know, they published all the media, and you should know. How is it possible that the minister doesn't live on his salary? What does he live on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12857	Mr. Sarovic, Mrs. Mihajlovic is not here, so ask her a question when she's here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12858	Mr. Arsic, don't waste my time. Mr. Arsic, I don't care about that. Let's move on. Next proposal, Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of the Expropriation Act. What you are doing is an authentic interpretation to prevent the protection of the rights of Serbian citizens. What rights? His own rights. You here say nicely in an explanation, and everywhere in the world is the property of sacredness. That you have received a request from Serbia's Elektro Network, and the EPS distribution, that multiple disputes have been initiated against them, against the EPS of 6m euros, against the Epower Network, there is no idea how much, and that the courts have begun to judge for the benefit of the citizens whose power lines have usurped their assets, their private property. And then you say how to prevent it - we'll bring authentic interpretation. Is that how you think you can stop justice? And is this legal certainty, when at the request of a public firm, it's done? If they do not charge their citizens for the damage they suffer and suffer damage through the Expropriation Act, they will be charged according to the general provisions and the principles of the right to compensation for damages. It's something you absolutely cannot take away from them. I've got a little more time. The next law is again an authentic interpretation of the provisions of the law on enforcement and security that has been in place for more than five years since it entered into force. However, again, instead of making changes and additions to the law, you practically, what should be a legislative and legislative function, you change by authentic interpretation. After that, Mrs Violeta Vukmirovic's discharge from the public prosecutor's post at the Trieste General Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik. This is a point that couldn't be found on the agenda, because it's not a bill and it certainly can't be a circumstance that will lead to it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12859	You're bringing the end, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12860	Here, I'm done. Which will lead to damage and adverse consequences to people's lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12861	The word is first made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12862	I see that colleague Brnabic has prepared to respond to a number of your remarks. I'll just have a couple. First, I may not know how to predict it, but for five years I was the president of the City Assembly, and Mr. Sarovic was the head of the opposition then, so sometimes it was easy to predict him from my corner. So, I have, Mr. Sarovic, Eurostat data, statistics on the price of electricity for all European countries. The price of electricity in Denmark is 30.9 Eurocents, so don't fix me, please, because I'm not talking in my head. So, in Denmark, 30.9. When I talked about electricity prices, I, of course, don't live on another planet, I live in Serbia, in Belgrade. I know the economic situation here, and I just said -- I'm not gonna measure it against Denmark where it's 30.9 or Germany where it's 29.7, but we stick to the region. That's exactly what I was talking about. Montenegro 9.6, Macedonia 8.2, Albania 8.2, BiH 8.3, Moldova 9.6 and Serbia 6.4. I repeat, the average electricity price in Serbia is the cheapest in Europe. When compared to the region, where wages are about the same level, it is seen how favourable the price of electricity is in Serbia for citizens, taking into account their payment option. I was talking about us taking care of it strictly. You can't just look at what the standard is and what the salary is and what the price of electricity is because the electricity price has its own manufacturing price and we have to take care of it and we can't take our energy companies in the direction of debacles. When it comes to petrochemicals, I have to re-correct what Mr. Sarovic was talking about. Thus, the debt of Petrochemis towards NIS is 254 million. It started in the period, I said, "Who?" So this government didn't even make a dinar debt. When we talk about this debt, we have succeeded in good negotiations on those 254 million to bring down to 105, with nearly 70m and severalm euros in interest being written off, and the rest of the difference between 105, interest, up to 254 will be converted into property. And that 105, I repeat, we're taking public debt, we're going to pay it back in the next four years by the model that you have in front of you, so 20% this year and then five six months of war by 16%, with our possibility that we will, of course, use it because we opened it by law, that we, as the Republic of Serbia, are converting into the property of Petrochemy. This will increase state ownership in Petrochem, which directly, through public enterprises, will rise to almost 75%. I repeat, this company is now at zero. She doesn't have any debts. He's got a serious amount of funds in his account. This year, it will have a profit of 59m euros, some of which has been paid by these old debts and liabilities. So there's almost 50 million euros in the account. With a long-term contract with NIS, it is now a very stable company that will either make profits and make dividends in our budget or we will find that company, find a strategic partner, sell part of the shares, and I believe, I cannot look that far now, but I believe that this 105m euros through this one activity will go back to Serbia's budget and leave behind a serious company. When it comes to borrowing, Anna will probably talk a little bit more about it, we talked about it a lot when she adopted the budget. We will end this year with 2.7-2.8% of GDP growth. That's some kind of novelty. We have the newly created value of GDP. One part of that newly created value we use to repay certain debts, to iron certain things about profits and pensions, and part for new investments. We cannot predict and plan a new growth of our social product without investment, but these are investments that we have earned this year through the growth rate and they do not affect the growth of our debt relative to GDP. You know all that well. Mr. Krasic, who you called, knows better. So I am not explaining this to you, but to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12863	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12864	Thank you very much. I'll answer some of the questions I've asked, as far as I can and as much as I've written. There was a lot of criticism, and it seemed to me, it was going really hard, but then, in the second part of the exposure, there was a little bit of an argument. This first part was a lot harder for me, and I have to say, at one point, I got scared. After that, I was relieved. You see, I've obviously been out of politics for a long time, and I don't know a lot of things, I'm learning. But here, today, I learned, let's say, that this set of 27 is nothing compared to what was done. We had sessions with 89 points, what was urgent and an emergency procedure in previous sessions is to tell the story why this was an emergency procedure. There are reasons why some of these laws are an emergency procedure. If we are talking about excise duties, then it is clear that it is because of the excise calendar which expires in 2016 and in 2017 it should be done. Whether excise duties are raised on cigarettes, tobacco products, they are certainly the lowest in Europe and that an additional inflow into the budget of two billion dinars can be used for something else, in terms of health care and support to the health system, to treat all the consequences that occur as a result of smoking tobacco smoke, but perhaps better explained by the health minister. As for the Capital Market Act, an excellent attempt, to adopt it in 2016 and immediately change it, was adopted in 2011. There was a small change in January 2016, so it doesn't say that in 2016 we brought it in and that it then came into force and now we're changing it. The law is from 2011. When it comes to baby equipment, I think we've explained enough. It seems to me that what we're proposing is a easier and more correct way for all the parents of newborn babies to exercise their right. Whether or not to cancel VAT on baby food and equipment, you see, that's a rather complex economic issue and what might come as malfeasance, but, again, I have to remind that there is also baby equipment that is not in the social category. There are wheelchairs for babies that are 600, 700, 800 euros. Why cancel the VAT on baby equipment that's in that category? I don't think there's any economic viability. This way, in any case, every parent of every newborn child will get what is on average spent at this point on baby VAT. Public property - 100% agree with you, absolutely and incredibly frustrating, five years are not over and I say always and always underline the parallel with the problem of my resistor, the parent books have not been completed for seven years. We said we'd no longer extend the deadline and we'd finish it by the end of this year. I promise you that as soon as we finish these parent books, we will devote ourselves to full control and support of local self-government to end this public property. That's inadmissible. It's unacceptable to have five, six, seven years without something ending, but that changes too. As for the observation of which the Independent Ministry of Finance is excellent, it's also good, but you probably understood that he thought he was independent of the second-degree organ. So, I don't know how it can be? For the first time, we're introducing something that's not a cadiya suing you, a cadiya judging you, but we're going to a first-degree organ and a second-degree organ independent of a first-degree organ, but it sounds good, too, so it's legitimate to use it in a congregation debate. As far as borrowing is concerned, the public debt of Surcin, Obrenovac, is not a new borrowing, was approved by the 2016 Assembly, $250m. What's actually going on is that it's withdrawing less, 198 million, or, as you say, 200, but at least 50 less than what's originally approved. The authentic interpretation of expropriation is very interesting to me. I agree with the right of property, I think it's one of the basic rights and it certainly should be. But, you see, it's two things. First, we're talking about power lines here, if we're still talking about high-voltage power lines, then we're talking about power lines that are set at 20 meters and more. Right property, if I have my own plot and then at 20 or 30 meters above it passes the water, is that still my plot up at 30 meters? Or 100 kilometers? And to the galaxy it's all my plot... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It should be paid because it cannot be used. ) At 30 meters above can be used. But then it remains open to compensation, but not according to the law of expropriation, because the courts are going to introduce a practical expropriation that doesn't exist. So, it's not taken away by the Expropriation Act, so it can't be tried under the Expropriation Act, but it's to be granted compensation under the Bond Relations Act and any bonds laws, it's to be proven damage and compensation is made. But, like this, to be tried, only against the state, because against the state, it's easy to judge... So let's just get as far away from the courts as possible and then people from 30, 40, 50, who have been working their country unhinderedly, and now that one court has just decided on an imaginary term of practical expropriation, well, then everybody goes and the courts just go. It really seems to me that we all need to stand up for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-23-0.u12865	This concludes today's work and continues Monday at 10:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 20.00 hours]]
