ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-24-0.u51299	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 150 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We're going to make a decision on the agenda points of this session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – I would like to put the draft law on public enterprises in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, not a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 154 MPs for - three, against - one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of Chapter I, the title of Section 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the title above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has not voted in favour of – five against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 2 of the amendment, four MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned who has not voted in favour of—seven against— 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned who has not voted in favour of—seven against— 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 149 MPs for – five, against – one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of Chapter II, the title of Section 1 and Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 145 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of - three against - 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - four against - 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for – two against – 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against them. 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov and the MP group Boris Tadic SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 14th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 14th amendment in the same text, the DS parliamentary group and the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 15th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstention - who has not voted for 15l of the People's Messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 16th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 150 MPs for - three against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who is four against them. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who is four against them. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for five, there is no one who has ever voted with one hundred and sixty-six people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 148 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 19th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for four, and there is no one who has ever voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the LSV parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for five, there is no one who has ever voted with one hundred and sixty-six people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 20th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of - three against - 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 145 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by the LSV parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for four, and there is no one who has ever voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 22nd amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – there is no vote of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for four, and there is no one who has ever voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 23rd amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov and the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for four, and there is no one who has ever voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 24th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 151 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 151 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democratic League of the Duchy of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the title above the members and the 27th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 151 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 147. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 30th Amendments in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 151 for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nejko Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 34a be added after article 34a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – no one with abstention – 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – no one with abstention – 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – no one with abstention – 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two and no one with a vote of 157 of the People's Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned who has not voted in favour of—seven against— 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned who has not voted in favour of—seven against— 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them; there is no vote of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them; there is no vote of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above the members and members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for—seven against—there is no one who has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above the members and members of the 52nd Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia -- submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-24-0.u51300	Members of the 53rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above the members and members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and six MPs of the LSV group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 out of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 159 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 out of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 158 out of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the title above the members and the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted a name above the members and members of the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted a name above the members and members of the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, put together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted a name above the members and members of the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the amendment to the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the title above members and Article 75 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted a name above the members and members of the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Chapter III, the name above the members and the 78th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter IV and the 79th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the title of the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the title of the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title of the 80th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 82nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 84th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 85th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 86th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public enterprises in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – four abstentions, 15 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on public enterprises. We move to item 2 of the agenda – I would like to put to the vote the proposal for a law on metrology, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Glava I, the name of the member and member of the 1st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 2nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 3rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 4th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava II, the name of the member and member of the 6th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 7th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names Glava III and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava IV and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava V and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VI, the name of the member and member of the 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VII and Article 18 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VIII and Article 19 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names Glava IX and Article 20 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 24th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava X and Article 25 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 26th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 27th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava XI and Article 33 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of head XII and member of the 34th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter XIII and Article 38 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter XIV, the name of the member and member of the 39th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head of the XV and Member of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title of Chapter XVI and Article 53 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of head XVII and member of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the M.E. bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on metrology. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of Laws on the Control of Subjects by DRAFT METALS I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's Proposal in principle, and given that no amendments to the Law have been submitted to the National Assembly will be adopted in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the control of items of precious metals, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the law on the control of items of precious metals. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Property in the Land, Objects and Waters of the Industrial Society for Production and Processing of Steels of Smederovo D.O.O. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel by Željzar Smederevo d.o.o. Brown, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted eight of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The name of the amendment law has been filed by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS, submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 15 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 12 MPs from the DS group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of publication. Considering that Article 14. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels of Želizara Smederevo D.O.O. Brown, in general. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 12 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and waters of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels of Želizara Smederevo D.O.O. Brown. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – I would like to put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on PUBLIC PARTNERS AND CONCESSIONS to the vote of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and 12 MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by the 12 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PPP and concessions in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-24-0.u51301	We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration I place the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 158 MPs present. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milan Petric, MP Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS and five MPs of the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted with 158 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Freedom Homen submitted to the 1st Amendment. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 151, did not vote by the seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted with 158 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted against the 159-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 9th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 11th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 12th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 10/1J/IR13. 40 - 13.50 The 13th Amendment was submitted by Boris Tadic – SDS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP group DS submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Boris Tadic – SDS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five DS parliamentary groups submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 17th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 18th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for Article 15(2) of this Law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry of Article 15(2) of this Law within eight days of the day of publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 13 MPs for – 147. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 151, no nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 152. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on international road traffic, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 153, no eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on the Amendments and Supplements of Articles 1/, 14/1 and 14/3/b of the European Agreement of 30 September 1957 on the international transport of dangerous goods (ADR) in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 152. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of intellectual property during bilateral military-technical co-operation with the correction on 23 February 2016, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 151, no one, ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am moving to the 13th agenda – I am putting the proposal for a Public Health Law on Public Health to vote in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 154, no one, eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 3 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. On behalf of Chapter III and Article 4 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. On behalf of Section 1 and Article 6 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 7 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. On behalf of Section 3 and Article 8 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. 11/1VS/VK13. 50 – 14.00 On behalf of Section 4 and Article 9 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5 and Article 10 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 6 and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter IV and Article 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 1 and Article 13 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter V and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VI and Article 17 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 1 and Article 18 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 19 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 3 and Article 20 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4 and Article 21 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5 and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter VII and Article 24 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter VIII and Article 26 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head of the IH and Member of the 27th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the draft public health law in general to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted, not nine Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public health. I put the draft law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 152. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-24-0.u51302	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160, out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 4 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 158, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Jankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter III and Article 9 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12/1DJ/BM14. 00 – 14.10 The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter IV and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 1 and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 17 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 18th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 24th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 26th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one has voted for – no one, against – the abstentions, 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of members and members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13/1BD/MJ14. 10 – 14.20 National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the amendment to Article 52. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4, the name of the member and member of the 54th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members and members of the 56th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava V, and Article 66 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 68th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 70th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VI, Article 73 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VII, Article 77 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 85th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VIII, and Article 86 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14/1TJ/IP 14.20-14.25 Since we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I'm putting a vote on a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted eight of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the protection of the population against infectious diseases. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 22 February 2016, at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 86. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 February 2016, at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 22 February 2016, at 14 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to an injury. 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 23 February 2016, at 19 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 23 February 2016, at 22 hours and 8 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – two abstentions – has voted 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 24 February 2016, at 00 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against one abstention, voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 24 February 2016, at 01:00 and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 24 February 2016, at 02 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 139 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I thank all the MPs.
