ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2791	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, the theme of the election of REM members was the topic of a more session of the Committee on Culture and Information which I attended as a member of this committee in front of the parliamentary group, along with my colleague Ana Stevanovic, who spoke about the subject yesterday. On these boards, we've had the opportunity to get acquainted with the whole election procedure, with the procedure, with the biography of the members. We've had our chance to speak directly to the candidates for the REM Council. What I think is very important to say is that during this whole process, in this whole story for all of this time, and even in our discussion yesterday that lasted all day, it was more than obvious that the selection of REM members was reduced exclusively to the political story of political interests, political influences, pressures, etc. I think what's worse is that the whole story remains completely neglected what should be the very essence and purpose and purpose of the existence of REM, which is to improve the quality of the programme. We all know the program is bad. I think that almost everyone can agree on that, because even in this discussion, I haven't heard any words of praise at all about the work of REM or the quality of the programme. Anyway, about the quality of the program, even less. In that sense, I find it very unusual that REM members were not asked to present their vision at all, some vision of what they should be doing and how they should deal with it, because when you apply for any job, and this is, I think we can agree on it, a very serious job, usually being asked by candidates to bring out some of their visions and to bring out their work plan and programme and what it should look like they're going to do the work they're doing. That's why I took the opportunity to ask the candidates exactly what they think about what our program looks like and what they think it should look like? I have to say, some candidates even thanked me for that question. In fact, I think it's very clear to the candidates who, on this occasion, some of them with less or more enthusiasm, have talked about what and how they could do very clearly, that although REM should be an independent and independent body, their work is very limited in many ways. I will note, however, that candidates Vosarevic and Pekovic both said they believe there is no censorship in the media. Candidate Vozarevic even said he thought the programme was good or in the sense that it is as it is, which I understood as a message that he thinks he can't be much better. I'm talking, of course, about candidates who are likely to be elected today, and that's why I think this is important. However, candidate Pekovic pointed out during this conversation, when we talked about the penalties that REM was granting or trying to implement, another problem, which is that the penalties that should have been implemented were not actually implemented. I think that this reminds us once again of the great problem of the judiciary and that it is certain that nothing in this country can function properly until the judiciary works properly. In view of all the above, our DJB parliamentary group feels that the choice of candidates should look completely different. The whole election process should certainly not be managed by political issues but by purely professional issues and therefore we are against this kind of election and this work of REM in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2792	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Let Alexandera Belacic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2793	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, in the selection of members in the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, it is very important that elected members of this Council work in addition to meeting the conditions for working in the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, their qualifications and achievements work to improve and professionalise Serbia's media space. I have no doubt that in the voting day we will support exactly such candidates. Candidates who will perform their duties responsibly and safely and who will work primarily to improve the quality and diversity of services and contribute to the preservation, protection and freedom of opinion in Serbia. I would also like to mention that almost daily talk about censorship in the media. But only a fleeting view of electronic, primarily printed media and social networks testifys that diversity exists despite continued attacks on the current government to perform some terrible censorship and dictatorship. What particularly falls into the eyes is that part of the media that has openly shown support to some opposition parties since 2012 has led an organised and brutal campaign against the current government, and above all against the SNS. The main target is Mr. Alexander Vukic, as well as his close associates. Their primary task is to give Mr. Vukic a domestic and foreign public performance as a brutal censor who shuts down shows, knocks down portals, replaces editors, prohibits texts. The source of these attacks is one negative obsession, primarily with Mr. Vucic and SNS. There is a tendency to silence the results of the authorities, and any negative or error is exaggerated. For months now, we have had the opportunity to witness daily the media link of individual members of the government, as well as close co-workers of the RS prime minister. They're not forgiven for being part of a winning team headed by the best. All good is forgotten, and the accent often throws away some unimportant things and sometimes unwittingly spoken words. On this occasion, I would also refer to the recently opened exhibition "Uncensored Lies" which is open in the town of Kruševec from which I come, until October 22nd. The exhibition is the best indicator of this and the answer to the question whether in Serbia there is or is still a government of freedom of the media, which is very often being misused. I would particularly point out that the exhibition did not aim to call the media eventually either offensively or to show that the media is insultingly writing about both the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic and other actors, but based solely on facts and examples of the public has shown what journalism in Serbia looks like from 2014 to today. Finally, I sincerely hope that the newly elected members of the REM Council for Electronic Media will have an impact on objective reporting, that future places of hate speech will be banned, and that the accent will be thrown at everything that is well done, and so when it comes to the city from which I come, more places will be about what has been done in the previous four years, and less places will be for insulting local and state officials, for dealing with their families, and very often with underage children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2794	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Belačić. Get Dragana Kostic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2795	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today is the agenda for the selection of members of the Board of Regulatory Body for the Control of Electronic Media. We received and carefully ordered the biographies of all six proposed candidates, three of whom should be elected members of the Council. We studied not only their biographies, which were delivered to us by the National Assembly, but everything we could find about them from other sources. It is clear that all the proposed candidates are actually party personnel, who have declined from the ranks of the former regime's parties -- the Democratic Party, the League of Social Democrats, G17 plus and who have now bowed to the Serbian Progressive Party for some of their own personal benefits. Since party personnel transferred from party to party depending on regime change, it is clear to us that they are persons who are unable to carry out their work independently and objectively. You had the opportunity to hear the detailed presentation of MP Vojislav Seselj about each of the proposed candidates and on this basis you could conclude that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party would not vote for any of the proposed candidates. Of course, we do not dispute the ruling majority's MPs with the right to support the candidates they consider to be the best for this function. However, the outcome of the vote is already known in advance and we all here know which candidates will be voted and which place will remain vacant. So, a member who has been proposed before the Committee on Culture and Information, and at the proposal of the Association of Electronic Media Issuers and Journalists' Association in Serbia, Goran Pekovic will be voted. As a proposal from the committee responsible for culture and information, the AP Vojvodina will be voted on by Djordje Bozarevic. A member elected on the proposal of the Association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children will not be elected because he will not have enough votes for Milan Antonijevic, nor for Snezana Stojanović Plasic. So that's the information we have. We'll see after the vote is made whether our information is correct. In any case, since we cannot influence the outcome of the vote, we will no longer deal with individual biographies of candidates. What I want to talk about and what my remark today is about is just the functioning of a regulatory body, the question of justification of the existence of such a body. Therefore, the Electronic Media Act is defined as an independent, independent regulatory organisation with the capacity of a legal person who exercises public authority in order to implement an effective policy in the field of media services in the Republic of Serbia, and to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services and to contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression. The question arises whether the regulatory body is carrying out all the above-mentioned duties? We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that is not the case, and now I will explain why. Therefore, the regulatory body, i.e. REM, has been most often advertised because of incidents that occurred in reality on commercial televisions. So, whether it's a national-based fight or a national-based insult or something. It was announced that a binding guide would be given to the broadcasters to show reality programs only in the evening, so after 23.00 hours. Such instruction was expected to be quickly delivered. However, it turns out there will be no instructions. In the fight between reality and the protection of public morals, reality shows and interests of commercial television stations have been defeated. The regulatory body, founded in 2003, has failed to adopt a regulation to protect minors from the scene of violence, dangerous and rude behavior, verbal aggression and various types of vulgarity. This is particularly absurd when it comes to the question that one of the three members elected today as members of the REM Council is elected at the proposal of the Children's Protection Association. The president of the REM Council, meaning, from several months ago, Goran Karadzic said that adopting such a instruction would be contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission and the Council of Europe, since the European Commission and the Council of Europe regulate that it can be censored, that it can only regulate and control content that has already been broadcast and that media content can not be aprioried. This is contrary to the powers of regulators to exercise public authority in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services. In order for the European Commission and the Council of Europe's media experts to fully understand the seriousness of the problem, they would need to be provided with emissions from Serbian reality and with translation. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party believes that it should not limit the editorial political commercial television stations owned, but not because it is a recommendation from the European Commission and the Council of Europe, but because it would represent a certain type of censorship. The owners of television stations on their private-owned television stations have the right to broadcast everything that is not illegal, and if we want to cultivate public morality, encourage positive values and become a nation that primarily looks at reality shows to become a nation that sees scientific and cultural and historical programs, then we need to offer such content to all citizens of Serbia. The bans don't accomplish anything. REM needs to be involved in checking the quality of the software content of those TVs financed from the budget, which are Serbia's Radio-Television and Vojvodina Radio-Television. In 2003, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic made the following promise, I quote -- "TV subscription as I promised Serbian citizens will be abolished, because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks. Removing a TV subscription is our obligation not to give up. “ What kind of people do Alexander Vukic belong to you to judge it yourself, but the fact is that the television subscription is not cancelled, it is only renamed in a fee paid through an electricity bill. It brings up 150 dinars, 120 dinars for Serbia's Radio Television and 30 dinars for Vojvodina's Radio Television. The amount of 150 dinars really isn't a big sum, and anyone can factor it out, but two things are controversial. The first thing is that citizens who do not want to watch Radio Television Serbia or Radio Television Vojvodina do not have the possibility to have these channels removed and excluded from the TV subscription. When you charge someone the good they don't want to use and don't use it, it's a robbery. The second issue is that citizens single out this really minimal amount, but the question is -- what do they get for the money they spend on Radio Television Serbia? So, Serbian Radio Director Dragan Vujosevic, according to the Agency's Anti-Corruption Site, has been paying 255,000 dinars since June of the year. Media reported in January this year that his salary is 284,000 dinars. I don't know if the Anti-Corruption Agency has incorrect information, or if they haven't updated his salary and what it's about. In any case, the salary is too high for what Radio Television of Serbia offers Serbian citizens. Serbia's Radio Television Director announced that RTS will broadcast 12,000 minutes of a new programme this year, mainly from the Olympic Games and World and European Championships and other competitions that our athletes participate in. The Serbian Radio Television is actually the Public Services of European Serbia, which is why Europeans are not clear to us. Serbia is not an EU member and as it stands, things will not become soon. However, the name Public Service itself says that this television has an obligation to Serbian citizens to report on all relevant, external and internal developments primarily in the domain of politics without censorship. Serbia's radio television does not meet this obligation, and the regulatory body is not responding. Thus, the existence of the Regulatory Body for the Control of Electronic Media has been questioned. I know Serbian Progressive Party MPs recognize this problem. When they were in opposition in 2011, they staged a protest outside the Serbian Radio Television Building. Aleksandar Vucic, at the time of the party's deputy president, said a monstrous and brutal campaign was being conducted in Serbia against Progressive leader Tomislav Nikolic, who at the time striked hunger. Whether Tomislav Nikolic strike hunger or not strike hunger, we don't know that. I trust Mr. Martinovic who claimed he didn't. In any case, Aleksandar Vukic said one smart and accurate thing at the time -- everyone pays a subscription to RTS, but they must know that Serbian citizens who are against the regime, Boris Tadic. That's absolutely true. However, what they ignore both the government and REM is the fact that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including those who are against Alexander Vukic, are paying this tax now. If RTS led a brutal and monstrous campaign against Tomislav Nikolic in 2011, then the same TV today leads an even more brutal and monstrous campaign against the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, and the campaign led by it is based on a full media censorship. In 2014, the Council adopted The RTS fully boycotted the SRS after the vote was declared, although they had a legal obligation to issue contributions to SRS activities in the journal for the same duration as the contributions from other parties. We in the SRS each day sent correspondence to the regulator's address informing them of the minute the other parties received in the electoral bloc and did not receive the SRS. The regulator ignored all of our memos, but he published parallels on a site of similar character sent by other parties. It was only when the election process ended that we were informed that we were right and that we were not represented enough media during the election campaign. However, no sanctions have been issued to RTS. On November 12th, it will be two years since Vojislav Seselj returned to Serbia. During that time, he made various statements for many world televisions, and CNN, BBC, Rasa Tudej, Croatia's HRTL, multiple stations with national frequencies in France, Italy, Macedonia, etc. However, he never got a chance to visit the Serbian public service. The excuse for not having Serbian radicals on RTS until recently was that we are not a parliamentary party. However, the fact is that Serbian radicals were not only boycotted in the policy domain, but other news related to the SRS was boycotted and not closely related to politics. For example, RTS fully boycotted the promotion of the book "Serbian people must free Kosovo and Metohija", which was held in front of a crowded Sava centre. After the election was called and after the SRS handed over the electoral list and collected the signatures, RTS received the obligation to broadcast our contributions in the same minute as the contributions of the other parties. But of course it wasn't the case and we didn't all have the same show time in the election block. Also, there was another irregularity, which is that RTS broadcasts in the election block on the activities of all those parties that announced participation in the elections, including those that did not hand over the electoral list at that time. Each political party becomes a participant in the election process when it collects signatures and submits the list, not when it announces candidacy. Of course, the Regulatory Body did not report back then and did not give the RTS warning measure. The Serbian Radical Party passed the censorship after the election, so the argument is no longer valid today at public service because we are not a parliamentary party. Boycott, of course, continues to run, our statements are not being broadcast, information from our press conferences, our meetings, or anything we have to tell Serbian citizens as the second largest party in Serbia. The regulator, of course, does not react to all these irregularities. The SNS colleagues were right when they said that the Vojvodine Television had put up a whole anti-Serbian agent for a very long time, who was very unobstructively reporting everything that was going on. The problem, however, is not resolved when leadership was changed on TV, as RTS also has anti-Serbian structures headed by Dragan Bujosevic, which implement pro-European politics and deliberately censor the voice of all those who are against the NATO pact and against the EU. The censorship problem in Serbia was not resolved the moment the SNS stopped being censored. The president of the Council for the Control of Electronic Media receives a salary of three average monthly net earnings in Serbia, and members of the Council receive a salary of two average net earnings. Thus, we believe that they are overpaid for a job that is obviously not adequately carried out and we believe that such a body should be disbanded, and that in all previous meetings, the previous members of REM should be prosecuted, not only for censorship, but also for the many other failures of which there were words yesterday, as regards the assignment of frequencies and manipulations with the assignments of advertising space on foreign television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2796	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2797	Thank you. Well, I can agree with the good part, not the good part, but let's just get going... By the way, I'm using the time of an authorized promoter, since I've got more, but whatever. Let's start with this reality...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2798	No, you can't, you can only replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2799	All right. In short, if we start with reality, I don't mind, otherwise I don't look at this nonsense and it's really ridiculous nonsense about these programs, but we here have politicians going into reality programs to get popularity, aware deep down that the people are watching it. So let's not be hypocritical now. Then say, "Don't let the politicians go there to get popular." What's most amazing is that we here have the greatest criticism on reality programs by these politicians, and otherwise you all know all the heroes in these reality programs, and here you have criticism of these programs. After all, if you're so human, then open up your television, so all those shows you'd be playing, you're doing it so freely, but don't complain to a private television owner who makes money that way. It's business, people. The reality program started somewhere else in 2005, 2006 and then some of your party presidents made big money. On the other hand, on RTS, here, I'll tell you, the scandal is that Vojislav Seselj can't be on RTS. I'm telling you this openly. They even censor us. We have major objections to the work of RTS, but it's still proof of some democracy. We don't interfere with their editorial policy at all. We think she's extremely bad, but we don't have the right to interfere. Therefore, I believe that each of the parliamentary representatives should be on RTS and the scandal is not to be on RTS. Of course, in line with the percentage representation in parliament. So, here's the thing, with a common appeal if we can get to them -- people, call, let's make it more polemic. We don't mind, we think it's a feature of democracy and we want it to be so in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2800	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2801	Only in the end if I can, if you'll allow me, about the subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2802	I can't let you, one sentence, maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2803	Okay, then I'll go on the next call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2804	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. No, you have no right. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I am mentioned by name. Did he tell you his name? (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Yes. Then you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not a matter of realising programs in itself, but of what sometimes happens there and what they can't control. Of course commercial televisions go after their interest, and their interest is not general social interest, but private. But when we Serbian radicals say reality programs, for us, the worst reality program that's being broadcast in the morning on Copernicus television, I guess every day, is a show by Juke Moller. We've never heard anything more rude in other reality programs than what's heard there. Such attacks, such mutilation of people, such plantings, a miracle unseen. I was once persuaded to look at it by accident, and I was startled. Is it in the country of Serbia? That didn't even exist in Dossmanian time. We need to get RTS to be public television. Public means state. Let those of the West tell you whatever they want, in the legal theory public means state, and that state be available to all under the same conditions and that no monopoly can happen. When it comes to the reality of the program at Juke Mogul, we turn the channel, pull the plug, and solve the problem quickly. That problem is easily solved when you have a lot of TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2806	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go. First the replica, he called it the previous speaker, and then I'll give you my word. Please don't yell, when you're president, you're in charge of the session. Just two minutes, no one dies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2807	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like my time back. I accept that I'm also a molar and that's for real, that's not the problem. The problem is, at least I'm not hypocritical, I'm talking to the people. Whether it's polite or rude, ratings viewers and turns the channel. It's a private television that has the right to broadcast the program she wants. The problem here is hypocrisy, which someone attacks reality programs and then goes to hang out with the Ship Dragon and win the popularity. That's the problem. And when someone who thinks of themselves as a top intellectual goes down to that level to get a vote, well, that's the biggest problem. I didn't attack you, I even respected you and I want you to come to RTS and it would be very nice for you to be on RTS. I don't know why you reacted like this. There's something else I have to say about the subscription and the Serbian Radio-Television. Dear friends, we only have to choose one thing – whether we want to shut down RTS or we want to have RTS. If we want to have RTS, there are two ways -- either to fund it, or to finance it from the budget. The third thing doesn't exist. And yet, if it's from the budget, it's funded by the citizens. So choose. If you want to shut down RTS, say it publicly, so people know, and on the other hand, if you don't, she has to have some funding, a source of funding, and these are the only two ways, unfortunately for me. Sometimes I feel bad about having to pay that subscription, too, but, what do I do, I have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2808	I've got to give the Rules of Procedure an injury. You'll get your word right away. Look how much I'm being criticized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2809	Madam President, in the previous case of replica, I believe that a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which clearly defines when the People's MP is entitled to a replica. So, if the MP directly mentions the name, last name or function in his address, he misreads the presentation or refers in an offensive way to another MP. In his first address, Mr Djukanovic was not insulting to anyone, and I really don't know what basis it was given to the previous MP of replicas? There are probably elements for replica now, but whether it is a friendly relationship between the two parliamentary groups, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Serbian Radical Party basis, I don't know. Other MPs are not allowed in such cases of replicas, so I don't think there were really any elements for replication. As far as reality goes, everyone went to reality, and Alexander Vukic went to Kursadzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2810	You want to say something about reality? He can't. I'm not gonna turn this into a stupid discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2811	But how could Mr. Seselj before me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2812	Because he was mentioned to have been involved in reality. You're not listening well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2813	No, I'm not friends with the Serbian Progressive Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2814	Please don't. Let me tell you something, MP. You don't know the MPs very well here, and I know them all very well, most of them, out of 250 I know 230 and I know when it's good for Parliament. So, in a sense, you're right. But on the other hand, he has that position – the president or the chairman decides on it. And I know when to let someone say something, not to have a story here after they've never finished. If you understand me. It's a little complicated – says the Verse of Radeta. As for friendships and hostilities between MPs, I don't think there's any enemies here, just political inexorables. And if we all have that in our heads, then this Parliament will work nicely. Because no one here hates anyone, I hope. That's the kind of emotion we need to put away and deal with politics only. So, we're political inexperiences. Everybody here together. By groups, of course, and somewhere within groups there's the same thing, we witness every day that some groups are getting smaller and smaller. Vojislav Seselj is now entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2815	I will now use my right only to give a brief explanation, so that there will be no confusion in the public. I don't mind moths. Being a moller, it's an honorable, honest profession, if you're doing your job professionally and you don't charge too much for someone you're doing a favor to. That's not the problem. I will not insult Vladimir Djukanovic when I say "Juka Moller". It's not because of the molar profession, but because Vladimir Djukanovic was caught opening Serbia's People's Lottery after midnight, he reportedly starts. When they caught him going in there with someone, then he made a statement to the newspaper that they were painting. That's the point. And I thought everyone here understood that. When, all of a sudden, they turn that on Djukanovic like I'm attacking the moths. No, I don't. It's an honor to all the mollers who do their job honorably. But that this molar is not being performed after midnight in the People's Lottery of Serbia, especially when we know what terrible financial affairs were going on there, and they haven't been cleared up yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2816	Thank you. First, there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2817	Thank you. Article 103(3) This is the second time. You just did it with a representative of the Dvora, before Mr. Seselj was exposed to me. So, according to Rule 3, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure go before the replica, not later. So, when an MP says he has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to give the MP your word first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2818	Thank you for warning me. I have to give Alexander Martinovic a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Radulovic distracted me, and he's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic did not mention anyone by name, nor Vojislav Seselj, nor any SRS MP. Here, give him a stenogram, so let him read, you're right, the chairman, and as far as these expressions are concerned, Juka Moller and so on, I think they're expressions that are absolutely inappropriate to the National Assembly. I want to know where Vojislav Seselj caught Vladimir Djukanovic painting, where he saw it, what Vladimir Djukanovic was doing in front of Vojislav Seselj's eyes when he can speak so publicly in front of all Serbian citizens -- Djukanovic Moller. So Vladimir Djukanovic had a reasoned discussion on the agenda point and did not mention anyone. I was mentioned by Miss or Mrs. Aleksandra Belačić, I have no idea for what reason, probably by some political pleasure, Vladimir Djukanovic is called Djukanovic Moller and so on. If we're going to adopt that vocabulary, and we're going to use that dictionary, it's not controversial, so can we. Then I don't think this assembly is going to be a good vote. So I ask you, Madam President, to keep in mind that SNS MPs have so far tried to speak with argument, to speak in principle, to give our views in principle regarding the problem of REM and in general the problem of the media in Serbia, and we have not mentioned anyone by name or by name, nor have we presented any details of private life, absolutely, any national MP, or any candidate proposed for the REM Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2820	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That'll explain it to you, Natasha. It doesn't matter what he mentioned. I'd like the services to give me a stenogram to read the discussion. Please, even though your president of the parliamentary group has asked me to conduct this session more strictly in the Rules of Procedure, then I am asking you to understand. Thank you very much. I also ask that you have understanding and that you stick to what the head of your parliamentary group has been looking for, which is not to mention the name of anyone. You can replicate, and now I allow you, strictly two minutes, and we're moving on to the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2821	The Honorable Chairman, as far as that nickname is concerned, I am very proud of him. I designed it for a reason to protect those people that were there that night, and it was just preventing the worst crime that was going on there. If I told you something, yes, I'm a Duke Moller, I designed that nickname myself, and I don't have any problem with it, and my heart would play if the prosecution called me. I can't wait for them to call me, if they ever want to solve that case, and if, of course, there's that possibility, I could say anything there. Some people wouldn't be so good about that molecule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2822	Thank you. Moller is certainly an honorable profession and no one here has used it in a pervasive sense. Dragana Kostic has a word, and let Aleksandra Jerkov be prepared. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, no one has mentioned you. Can't now that someone tells you their name, you say I'm talking. He can't. He said the most beautiful thing about you, believe me. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I will not replicate to him. Slow down, there's no persuasion, I've decided there isn't. The word is Dragana Kostic, then Aleksandra Jerkov. If anyone doesn't, they don't have to. You have a word, you have to fight for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2823	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, Serbian citizens deserve much more objective, independent, highly professional and on the principles of journalistic ethics than the media house. That is why we are here, through the members of the REM Council, to make it possible for our citizens, and certainly REM members for what they do receive and compensation that amounts to two average net earnings at the level of the Republic. I believe that the report of the Committee on Culture and Information has best seen it and that there are people who are from the profession, so we will vote on their recommendation and vote for those members. However, I would also refer here to the issue of informing, or media houses at a local level, where, specifically, in the municipality where I come from, and this is Sokobanja, where the executive power of the DS was conducted three months ago, has affected how the funds will be allocated from the budget for co-financing of projects at the competition that the media houses have reported. Thus, the local media house, which received 3,600,000 last year, because it did not want to support DS policy, in this year, since it was an election year, received 50% less from the budget, i.e. only 1,800,000, while the rest of the funds was allocated, meaning that 1,800,000 were given to some other media houses that defiled the SNS in the pre-election campaign and which did not carry out their work according to the principles on which they should, but were knowingly breaking those rules of the game. These commissions, which are also from independent associations at the level of the locals, and from the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina, the Association of Journalists of Serbia, the Media Research Centre and other associations, those most speak of the fact that these associations are independent have proved on the case of my municipality that they are not independent and are usually chosen according to the recommendation of certain parties. In order for this to stop happening, I think it's best that there are some sanctions, and it's the best sanctions, because it turns out when you take someone out of your pocket that he'll just get smart, that there are certain procedures against those members of the commission because they're paid for it and they're paid by the citizens of this country. I hope that we will vote safely today and that the best, what is in our power, we will propose and select REM members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2824	Alexander Jerkov has the word, and let him prepare the Vesna Raconjac. There's no mention of DS. There's nothing ugly about it. Alexandra, please just take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2825	Thank you, President. I think it was a basis for replication, but now it's not a subject. Today is what we need to talk about very simply – what our citizens are watching TV, what it is that they can see on TV and whether the people we should vote on will contribute to our citizens watching quality TV programs. Today is not a topic of what any of us thinks about how many minutes he's won on an RTS show, there's no talking about imaginary attacks on the prime minister and his family, there's no talking about exhibitions, there's no talking about how much money he's getting from the budget, which, by the way, maybe isn't the way the SNS should go because it's better that we don't talk about it. Today we need to talk about what our citizens are watching on television, and what they're watching on TV, believe me, it's not even a little great. They watch reality programs, I won't be the first to mention them and talk about everything in these programs, they watch shows where a woman who suffers violence and her husband beats her and then face a little attitudes, see who's right, whether she deserves to get beat up, whether she hasn't been beaten, they watch as the owner of one television for years is dealt with by individuals, organisations, media and states who are in any way on the way, his business combinations, watch special shows dedicated to coups, watch as three televisions with national frequencies pass the party's birthdays to power and watch REM each of these times declared unsuspective, as it says he can't react or that the law isn't broken. It's very scary what we've heard several times in this debate, that the owner of private television can broadcast on that TV whatever he wants. That's not true. Private television uses a national frequency that is public good. The owner applied for some kind of competition when he applied to get a national frequency and received a national frequency on use based on some conditions he was supposed to meet. That's why he's so worried when REM says in its report that none or five commercial televisions have fulfilled their obligations under the Electronic Media Act and done nothing. That's why it's very scary when REM finds that 58.42% of reality is broadcast on Happy TV in the total time in which the TV broadcasts the program and does nothing about it. So I think that no one who was a REM member should be a REM member again because these people in the previous period have shown that they are not doing their job well. I believe you know that, too. Then the question arises why in all ways did you try to get Goran Pekovic into REM at all costs. First, through NGOs, you tried to knock down the vote, manipulate the Quorum of the Committee on Culture, look for authentic interpretations, now you push it as a representative of media associations, etc. The answer I think lies in one news that has passed quite undetected, which is that as many as six REM members in one session of the 52 candidates for the RTS Management Board and 22 candidates for the RTS Management Board have rounded up identical names. So obviously that REM doesn't do exactly the things that need to be done right, but that's why some things do exactly right, and that's exactly what you want, and that's why some people have to be in REM, and that's what I'm going to believe and show for it, or you're going to show it. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2826	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2827	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's the thing about TV shows, I can agree that they're more or less bad. I admit I don't even watch television, which is tragic, I don't really see it, but if we're talking about scandalous shows where someone's facing, so one of the leaders on Twitter today is your most active agitator, she's leading on one of the televisions that you're most spittin' on today's same "Pinku" scandalous show was called "The Moment of Truth" in 2009, where we could hear every nasty thing we could hear. Well, then there wasn't a REM that was your party outpost, and neither did you ever say anything against such a show. So it's a little bit hypocritical to talk to someone about what we watch on TV, because then what we could see and even hear, we were all disgusted. So where was your ethics then, and where was your RRA and Gordan Suša and all sorts of others? It wasn't anywhere, because they were good for you and because they were good for you. So don't talk about what we're watching on TV today, I agree that REM has to work much better, even if some codes are far more respected since they're obviously not respected today, but it's hypocritical that we listen to it from you, especially from the leaders who ran such shows. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2828	Marko Djurisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2829	The Honorable Chairman, the previous speaker was given your decision the right to reply, although if we read Article 104, there was absolutely no basis for giving a replica. In fact, Article 2, that may be the closest, says that if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, that is, a political party whose MPs belong to that political group. There was no mention of the party represented by Mr Djukanovic in the assembly today. And this is where the constant double arches are applied. So when someone from SNS wants to get a replica, he raises his hand without a problem. On that side when the biggest insults to mention parties so-called. "the former regime", the easy-to-be chairman gives the answer – you do not have the right to reply, that is my decision. I invite you to have the same archaic towards everyone. If anyone thinks and wants to get a replica, then give it to everyone, not just members of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2830	Sir, you might be right, but can you please tell me when I didn't give you the right to a replica even when the former regime was mentioned? (Marco Djurisic, from the post: I cannot watch who is chairing, chairing... ( ) Each of us has its own threshold of tolerance, the right to replica is a discretionary right that belongs to the chairman. Some colleagues have a stricter criterion, I think I have a lighter one, and I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. ) Apropo thus, Miss Jerkov does not have the right to reply, and since you are not an authorised proposing representative, but your parliamentary group does if she wants to exercise that right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2831	We have heard again from an authorised representative who has a number of offensive words to the DS as well as some independent journalists who have a serious career, and I think that should be respected, showed how he treats the people of that professional life with another big remark. Change the way of the presidency and to show once again when my colleague Balša Bozovic appeared for the replica he did not get, although DS was mentioned in the most offensive way, we saw it now and as a reaction to Ms Jerkov's exposure. I think it's very important in this sense that you provide a civilized behavior in this room with no offense, but also with the opportunity for us from the DS and the entire opposition to react to the salva of the insults we often hear in this room. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2832	Well, you just proved Mr. Ciric that I am running this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that I treat all MPs equally. There's never been a mention of DS... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Yes. )......................................................................................................... but I thought Mr Djukanovic was talking to your MP group and that's why you got the right to reply. (Goran Djiric, from the post: But Balsa Bozovic did not get that right, you are aware of that too. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm only responsible for my actions. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 27. Mr. Arsic, Mr. Ciric is an authorised representative, or president of the DS parliamentary group, and I don't mind if he defends the DS if someone attacked the DS. But he's not an authorized representative of this reporter or that journalist, so he gets a line, because someone mentioned the name of a journalist who ran a reality program. So I can't understand that. On the other hand, if someone suffers an insult, the SNS parliamentary group suffers. A little, little bit, some of the MPs from different parliamentary groups say about one of the proposed candidates for the REM Council, and this one's from the SNS, and you're pushing from the SNS of this, and you're pushing that one, and you're pushing through this association, and you're pushing through that association, and so on. Have you heard from one of us that we're going to vote for this candidate or that candidate? Have you heard, after all, one ugly word about any candidate who has been proposed? People are proposed by institutions authorised to propose. Whom we will vote for, or we will not vote, is our right, but it is your right. It's the right of every MP to vote or not to vote for any of the proposed candidates, but I can't understand that DS has a monopoly on replica whenever a journalist is mentioned, some show, some candidate without us from the SNS having one word to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2834	Mr. Martinovic, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken by the provisions you quoted. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted. On the contrary, I believe that journalists are also public figures, that they have the right to deal with politics even as they deal with journalism, I would just like them to identify themselves on whose political option they are so that citizens know that they appreciate the truthfulness of their investigative journalism. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. ) Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2835	Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. So, we're talking about selecting REM members, we're talking about independent media, and you as chairman are now asking journalists to make a political commitment to know how to treat who. This endangers the dignity of this home that decides on a single regulatory body that needs to ensure the freedom of the media and citizens of the programme they deserve. You just did, not to break the Rules of Procedure, but obviously you came into trouble with the ethics of you as chairman when you mentioned that professional journalists working on public service must be politically determined to know how to treat them, whether we believe them or not. Now, that's the kind of Serbia we're talking about today, and that's the kind of Serbia we want to change. I'm sure you know you've violated the Rules of Procedure yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2836	Mr. Bozovic, what I don't like most is someone putting words in my mouth that I didn't say. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: Maybe it's gone off. I didn't even get out. I know exactly what I said. Check the stenogram. I say what I think, and what you hear, it's a different story, and it has nothing to do with what I thought and said. And you've just denied yourself in everything you've done so far, and I've just given support to journalist independence, if you haven't noticed. They have the right to their political stance and their political opinion. According to the Rules of Procedure, one more time, Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2837	Article 106. So if you really didn't mean it, I apologize. But only the situation to this extent is serious and so sensitive that any outburst can be misread. I apologize if you really didn't mean it, and I don't know you as one. But the fact is that it was said, so I reacted for that reason. It often happens to me to say something I don't mean, but, look, I'm here to be as correct as possible to you as the chairman. Once again, I'm sorry if you didn't mean it, there's absolutely no problem. Journalists are free and, of course, they can do what their job is, professionally, according to their profession. Absolutely none of them have to plead politically to do professional work. It's freedom in Serbia and it's a democracy that we all fight for. I know we're fighting, you and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2838	I accept the apology. I don't know how you understood me. I know exactly what I said. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2839	Article 108, Mr. Arsic. I now have to take you for protection because you are as vice president of the National Assembly to attack for no reason whatsoever. You said it was every journalist's right to be politically defined. I totally agree with that. It is the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what the problem is that the vice president of the National Assembly says that every journalist in Serbia, every employee in any media, has the right to be politically defined. After all, they are already politically defined, even if Mr. Arsic did not say so, and that is their right. But we don't choose journalists here, we choose members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for the Electronic Media. So, for electronic media, not for written media, but for electronic media. So, Mr. Arsic, here, let me protect the institution of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and therefore the National Assembly from attacks that are completely irrelevant, because what you said is absolutely true. Journalists have the right to be politically defined. Everywhere in the world, they're politically defined. Politically defined in Serbia, but the fact that journalists have the right to be politically defined is not an attack on journalists. It's an affirmation of their political freedom. After all, this is not the agenda point. We don't choose journalists, we don't choose members of some news society or the organs of a journalist's association, the Association of Journalists of Serbia, the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, the Independent Association of Journalists of Vojvodina, etc. We choose members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2840	Thank you. Right on the replica of Vladimir Djukanovic and I ask that we finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2841	I'd just ask if I didn't get something in my mouth I didn't say, it really doesn't make any sense. First of all, I think she's a great professional. Even that show she used to do, she was doing extremely professionally what was required of her. I'm talking about their hypocrisy here, because then these shows didn't bother them, not one reality program. Why? Because some party presidents later made a lot of money from commercials on these reality programs. That was really good for them back then. Today he suddenly cried out for the programs. In doing so, this host was then working on television that is today the most under attack. Now, that's hypocrisy. By the way, the manager herself, I think she is, no matter how politically I disagree with her, but I think she's a great professional. Even some of her shows I'm happy to watch today, and there's no problem with that. Just don't put anything in my mouth I didn't say. I'm just talking about your hypocrite here, which you see today something you didn't want to see in your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2842	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2843	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I believe today's topic is very serious and mine, let's say, speech will differ from any of the above. I'm not going to do five stories, or who bought it, or who paid as much as the media. The media has tremendous power. They form the opinion of every citizen, as well as the public opinion of the entire state. On this basis, the regulatory body also has a huge responsibility to respect the legislation, each item of legislation, and not to wait for citizens to appeal to the mistakes and violations that individual media services are making, but to closely monitor what is happening on our TV screens and what is available to both children and young people, as well as to all other citizens. First of all, I'm going to look back at one general hoax, and it's absolutely my domain of action. It's health care. We have in the general public some advertising content for children's products. I want this opportunity to ask the future REM members to pay attention to that sphere as well. Under the law of the general public, the following medicines should not be advertised: those that are issued on a prescription, most are issued on a prescription, on a burden of health insurance for tuberculosis, diseases carried on a full basis, infectious diseases, chronic insomnia, diabetes and other metabolic disorders. You're aware of how much such advertising there is and how tempting they are. Also, it's forbidden to advertise drugs without permission, and these are drugs that have expired or are not listed in the register. Medicinal products that lead to delusions, i.e. the conclusion that the safety and efficacy of the drug is ensured by its natural origin, which describes the disease and the successes of the treatment by citing self-healing, as well as the medicine, or medical means, in an inadequate and sensational way about their successes in treating and displaying images. The team concludes that the medicine belongs to food, cosmetics or other general uses. In order to encourage regulation and issue, i.e. selling drugs, giving and promising financial, material and other benefits, that is, Article 5. It's a rule book. What I can tell you about health care, and it's forbidden, is that by processing Article 61. The Law on advertising "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 79/2005 prescribed that advertising of the name, business name, name, seat and founder of a health institution, i.e. the second form of health care and working time is in accordance with the Health Care Act, so we have which members, last in 2014, who, in Article 71, says that advertising, i.e. advertising of health services, professional medical procedures and health care methods, including health services, methods and procedures of traditional medicine, alternative, homeopathic and other complementary medicine performed in a medical institution. You may find it strange why I say this, but in this way you have allowed certain medical institutions to be inappropriately advertised. They can advertise, but they know how, in what way. You have brought into an unfair position a state health institution which is financed from the budget of local self-government and which does not have the means to simply present its work in an adequate manner and to successfully mate to the private sector. What I'm trying to say still applies to the so-called. Realize the programs, so we got them and imported them after the petoctobar revolution, like the fluid of freedom of the media. It's no problem to reality the show. The problem is what time he's being broadcast. The problem is whether it is available to minors and the consequences of their mental health. That's what the problem is, and while the government of the Republic of Serbia is fighting for every job, for a new investment, we are here discussing something that doesn't matter at all at this point. If we hire Serbia, if we hire our citizens, so who will watch the real program at five o'clock in the morning or, I don't know, 12 to 15 o'clock in the afternoon, but will be at their workplace. Therefore, we should perform so selectively and simply give our children quality programs and perform as parents control of what they see. What I want to go back to, and that's one abuse we talked about yesterday. Who gave someone the right to give birth data, which they gave birth to these days, to have propaganda material coming to their home? They didn't break anything, they wrote in propaganda material that promotion of breastfeeding is number one, but it's abuse of personal data. We had statements from the president of the association that none of these mothers signed consent. It's very dangerous. It is dangerous when we advertise children's supplements doctors are not informed whether the patient is using them and can have serious health consequences and should not be surprised why youngsters 15, 16, 18, 20 years of age are suffering from severe cardiac death. It's precisely because of the abuse of children's products that are abnormally advertised and are given a large space in the media. This is what we should pay attention to and suggest to future elected REM members how to pay particular attention to the health and mental health of our nation, so that we can become a serious state that will deal with serious matters, and above all with employment, investment, and then these problems will disappear slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2844	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far the statements on REM's business have referred to an assessment of what the body was doing, what it didn't do, what it should do and what it shouldn't do. In my presentation, I will look at the financial effects of REM’s business with a special reference to the cost side, i.e. expenditure. According to the report on the implementation of the REM financial plan, it achieved a total expenditure of 280m dinars in 2015, i.e. 2.3m euros. Serbian citizens should know that REM's business last year cost them so much. In the structure of such expenditures, earnings and remuneration to employees are moving at the level of 177m dinars, i.e. 1.47m euros, while the same profits are 162m dinars, i.e. 1.35m euros. According to the report, 85 workers were employed in REM last year. The average gross earnings per employee were 165 000 dinars, i.e. 1.367 euros and net earnings of 92,500 dinars, i.e. 766 euros. The net earnings of REM Council members ranged from 150 000 dinars, i.e. 1.220 euros to 175,000 dinars and 1,425 euros respectively. According to Article 5. The Law on Electronic Media, REM shall exercise public authority in order to implement an effective policy in the field of providing media services, improving the quality and diversity of electronic media services and, in particular, contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect public interest in the fields of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services. I ask – did REM do that? That's what he was supposed to do, and that's the main question that is the basis of today's discussion. Instead of focusing its work on realising the pre-mentioned powers, we face a daily collapse in the quality of the public information system. Serbia's media space has become strictly controlled by the executive authority. There has been a sudden drop in quality and influencing of all kinds of inappropriate content. This has been increasingly voiced by reports from authorised institutions, both in the country and abroad. For this reason, I want to point out to the citizens of Serbia a big gap between the spending of REM funds and its impact. I suggest reviewing the results of his work, as well as the work of all other agencies, offices, administrations, funds and similar budget users, with a view to reducing the unnecessary and uncontrollable disposal of budget funds, as well as raising the level and quality of their activities in accordance with the legal powers given to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2846	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2847	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this second day of our debate on the election of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, I must ask the ruling majority, first of all, of Mr Martinovic and the MPs of the SNS, how it did not occur to you to ask yourself that there have been no supervisory board reports in Serbia for 16 years and that you were the first session in the new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to begin with that agenda point. I'm asking you, because it's not Mrs. Gojkovic, as president of the Parliament, here. That's quite scandalous, because I have here a report from REM in 2015. Members of the REM Council have been elected after a year, and we have not discussed how the election process for the early parliamentary elections and for the local elections in Serbia has been implemented. If you expect REM that in its report any media, in any way, even declaratively, will sanction for non-compliance with the procedure, then you are mistaken. First, because of the fact that there are people sitting there who are not properly engaged in what is their legal right, and on the other hand, the senselessness of the existence of such a body, from the beginning, from the establishment of the RRA to today, is seen in who is running them and who are members of the Council, and even those who propose candidates, because they are known in advance, as counterpart Belačić said, who will be elected, and that is your free will. Let's come to what is the basic role of this body, and when we don't already have the Assembly's Supervisory Board, that it provides independently, professionally and in the right way and represents rules concerning monitoring the work of electronic media in Serbia. Another key element for selecting these members who are proposed is that they are fully independent in the process of running as experts in a particular profession and that the condition for their choice is that they have proven themselves professionally, as people who understand each segment in the work of the media. I am truly sorry again that there is no Mrs Gojkovic, who chaired the Information Committee, where these potential candidates came to the so-called. briefing. It was this Gjorge Bokarevic, just like all the other candidates. To avoid confusion, he is not in close contact with Goran Karadzic, who is bright and dressed in REM, who determines how the RTS Management Board will be elected, the RTS Management Board, because under the Law on Electronic Media and by the Law establishing this body, the Council, or the regulator, will call a public competition for the appointment of members of the board of directors, six months before the term of office of the members of the RTS Management Board. We come to how Mr. Karadzic uses his power and influence, political influence, means in no sense is he independent, nor was he a candidate, nor was he presently in the position of the president, nor was he any of those who force and push, and above all Bozarevic, who is his godfather and who is at the question of Mrs. Gojkovic at the meeting of the competent assembly committee, when they represented this professional engagement, as well as the past, as they recommend, on her direct question – which laws she will use in her work, he said - there are some laws. What are you going to do as a member of the REM Council? Mr. Bokarevic said – well, here, I'll do whatever needs to be done. So he did not read the law, but therefore he knows very well that through the association he and Mr. Karadzic, among other things, the independent association of some entrepreneurs, lobby in a way that is only known to them, how they will appoint members of the board of directors in public service. That so-called. The public service also mentioned the MPs of the SRS, and how they were kidnapped by the people. The people are being kidnapped for subscription, now to the soul, in this reduced amount, and we have a situation that several hundred thousand Serbian citizens do not want at all, in various ways, through various forums, petitions, initiatives, appeals sent by "Electroprivred Serbia" said they did not want to follow the programme. On the other hand, we have a situation where people who are so-called. weekenders, people who do not have a place of residence in those facilities, where they are also required to pay for yellow RTS and Vujosevic's editorial programme, which is everything but not objective and which does not represent the right picture of the people. In addition to this, the said retrospectives of campaign follow-up events, the uninvited president of the main opposition party, which is the SRS on the show, are not calling participants from the ranks of the main opposition party on shows where journalists, like the one announced for tomorrow night, are they, Mrs Radeta? They all worked out on that show, and here tomorrow it's aired at 9:00, so I don't advertise it, but there are no Serbian radicals on topics that are crucial to the state, and that's the question of the survival of KIM. The question now arises for you who are the protectors of the state and national interests, since the law was changed in 2014, and you were in power when there were no Serbian radicals, and not to forget, we voted against the establishment of the RRA and against REM and the amendments to the law and the adoption of such a Law on Electronic Media, there is no provision under which the ninth member of the council chosen by candidates who live and work on KIM. Do you think that Gordan Suš, who has stopped his mandate and you know as a journalist, what are the definitions and attitudes he has, or Karadzic, or any other, concerned with what conditions and how the KIM journalists, the only media that can come up with the truth about the persecution and suffering of our countrymen, is, say, the TV "Most"? You heard the statement of the editor of this television, Mrs. Ljiljana, I forgot her last name at this time, in what way their reporters, with which risk of their own life go to record the situation of a new attempt at kidnapping exudus "Trepce", the protest of our countrymen, what is taken from our country of Serbia, after your signing the Brussels Agreement? Of course, there's never been a reaction from these people from this regulatory body. We would be here in the Serbian Parliament, if you want to do this seriously, but no, this is all just a farce and just an illusion of some democracy, to start a serious story about the structure and ownership of the media, not to enter, of course, those who are private, but to those who are under the apparent administration, they really are not, as the RTS mentioned. And that we have a normal situation and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, that the government, as founder of this public service, has taken over, there in accordance with democratic principles and principles, such as in many other countries, the control role over Serbia's Television, then, as some call it, the yellow Bujke, the director of Serbia's television with so much pay and with the staffed journalists who pay 200-300,000 dinars, who do nothing for the sake of public service, could not do what they do. The second thing and that's the last segment I want to look back on in this debate is the role of REM in the election campaign. How capable the ruling coalition gentlemen were, says the fact that only 10 days before the end of the election silence came to an end and called for a return-in because the owners of private media in Serbia, many of them, told me personally to come to an assembly in the House of Unions, where they would be presented according to Karadzic's instructions to whom the mandate had already expired, was instructed from June last year or before, in which way they should follow the media campaign in Serbia. You think the state television of Serbia respected that? And by the statistics and by the program that was broadcast, of course not. Since you haven't asked yourself, you haven't rebelled, because it doesn't bother you, I guess we have so many private televisions where we can show up, in local self-governments where our own are in power, so we don't care if we represent the parties for the election in Serbia, that's probably going to be the case with presidential candidates, as long as Bujosevic is there, he's doing the Second Program and in some terms that are absolutely, people from marketing would say uncommercial, meaning the terms that don't look at citizens. The very fact that on Saturday nights, let's say, the presentation of a party that draws it out of 9:00 p.m., looks only at the national sher, barely 3% or 4% of the total audience in Serbia? Isn't it a top priority that if it's a public service, that party representation is now being held by candidates in the election? However, as things stand, Bujosevic, who is under protection and how, the US ambassador and all those who do not want Serbia well, if soon and if you manage to shake him off and get rid of him, will be replaced by the information I have, precisely by the one that is bright about the dress in REM, which is Goran Karadzic. This certainly is not a good solution to the media service and to the overall picture of the state of the media in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2848	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2849	I agree with you, Mrs. Jovanovic, there are a lot of problems, when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2850	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2851	I didn't say anything ugly, so I agree with the good part of Mrs Jovanovic's exposure, there are a lot of problems in REM, there are a lot of problems in the media. I don't only agree with the the thesis that REM is the one that provides you with victory in the election. The election is won by the people and there is no REM in the world that can guarantee you an election victory. A school example of this is your SNS. No one in this room can say that SNS controls RTS or controls tv. I will later present to you the factographic data of how many negative media advances against Alexander Vukic from 2014 to 2016, and despite that, the SNS won the elections convincingly. The people recognize what a real policy is, what a policy that can produce results, and what a policy that is promoted to promote a political party's order. So, you can put in the RATS Council of geniuses, you can bring in the best journalist in Serbia for RTS director, and you're always on RTS, and you're not stripping off RTS for 24 hours, if the people won't be able to guarantee you victory in the election. You have one problem here, all of you who are now criticizing the SNS for the media situation. It's not your fault that you're not in power, it's your fault, because you were in power, so you ruled badly. So, you've ruled badly. And those of you who would like to rule...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2852	Time for my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2853	... You have to change the policy so the people recognize that your policy is real, because the people recognized your policy as unrealistic and therefore did not give you enough votes in the elections and there is no REM that can change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2854	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Maja Machužic. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. Let Martinovic plead. Did you mention me? ) (Alexander Martinović, from the place: Yes. I didn't say anything ugly. ) Right to replication, MP Vojislav Seselj, to the praise of Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2855	I'm just talking about what Mr. Martinovic said, and it was about the SRS. There are various classifications of political parties. One of the possible classifications is political parties that adapt to public opinion at the moment to come to power and political parties that are the primary of their ideology and their programme and seek to teach, inform, raise public opinion, or citizens of a state to bring their ideas closer to them and thus create conditions for these parties to come to power. So there are parties that are more important principles, ideologies, that are sacrificed in that sense. They are ready for their members and their officials to sacrifice themselves for these principles, to sacrifice their lives if necessary, and there are parties that constantly weigh what the public thinks, constantly investigate and thus adapt. It's an easier way to come to power, but much more risky, you'll see for yourself, and they'll see for themselves the bloats. That's what the socialists of the '90s did. A year. They adapted to the current public opinion, which was greatly anointed by instrumentalised media, came to power and spectacularly flew out of power. So far, you've only come to power. When you fly spectacularly, you still don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2856	You're bringing the end of Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2857	But as far as we're concerned, we never have to come to power, but we won't give up our ideas. For us ideas and ideology are more important than power, of personal interest, of material wealth and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2858	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so Mr. Seselj, if not one party has been courting public opinion, then the SNS has not been courting. So tell me if it was popular, was it a public opinion advocacy and tell the people – people, we have to limit employment in the public sector, people, we have to cut down one part of our pensions, otherwise our country will go bankrupt, we have to tighten the belt so our kids don't live better. Here we are, on this subject of Kosovo and Metohija. So can we, you're no bigger Serbs than we are. We can now hit the talambas and say, "You're chasing, everyone in Kosovo, we're defending the world's Serbian country, etc., but somebody else is going to Kosovo, and we're sitting in Belgrade and saying we're big Serbs." No, we're running a rational, reasonable, wise policy, because we want to keep the lives of Serbian heads alive. Because we want to keep the Serbian economy from going down. Well, we'd be more popular. That popularity you're talking about. I understood what you were going to say. This popularity is coming very quickly, but very quickly it is lost, but the policy we are promoting is a policy that gives results in the long term. At the time that one part of the pension was reduced, when the salaries were limited, when we limited employment in the public sector, the majority of the people welcomed it to the knife, but people quickly realized that it was the only way to consolidate in the fiscal sense of the state and go through economic recovery. So don't transfer us to public opinion. If we were to do what you're talking about, and we would win not 50 but 80% of the votes in the election, but the question is what would happen to the state of Serbia, and it's not a matter of whether we, Mr. Seselj, will one day leave power or not, it's in the nature of every democratic system that the party in power, one day it won't be, but I'm sure that you won't win the SNS either...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2860	I'm sorry. I'm the one who talked. I'm sorry. You've been over a lot for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2861	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2862	No, no. Two minutes and 30 seconds. It's a lot of real. I'm way out of line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2863	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2864	No more replicas. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. We've gone... Well, it's not simple. The President of Parliament determines when it is over. It's taking so long. I'm sorry. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: You have not seen. You weren't there. I saw it. I'm here all the time. Ambassador, I'm here all the time. Trust me. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is oppression. It's not oppression. I'm the messengers to oppress, just the work. Please don't. I think we're oppressing Maja Machužic, that it would be a pleasure to listen to her discussion about REM. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Let me replicate. I can't right now. I'm sure someone will mention you again. I feel the atmosphere that it will. I gave it to you then, no one mentioned you personally... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes, it is. Everyone attacked me. I gave you my word this morning. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: said... Don't. No, they're not. It's not in the stenogram. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Martinovic confirms. I'm calling myself today. I'm ringing myself. Vojislav Seselj throws. He spoke best of you. Mayo, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2865	I would like to thank the President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are choosing members of the REM Council, people who should contribute to improving media content in Serbia through their qualifications, knowledge, experience and integrity. In front of future members, and now the candidates of the Council as one of the main objectives should also be the aim of REM, which is to contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect public interest in the field of electronic media. Dear gentlemen, does freedom of opinion mean the publication of lies and degradation and the mutilation of our investors and projects such as "Jura", "Mitrossa", "Begrada na Voda"? Is this spinning and creating media pressure on potential investors certain spin masters are trying to drive potential investors away and destroy the reputation of the RS government? Don't get your hands on that. Those spin masters are really well paid. Don't ever forget that. Those who tell their lies, the public's lies get fat rewards. They became marketing experts, advisers, consultants, owners of marketing agencies, in one word the rulers of Serbian media and the creators of a fake picture of Serbia in public. I'll give you more examples of violations and abuse of that freedom of the media they're talking about. After an official statement from the King's police administration that the village of Zica will be carrying out planned shootings in the area designated for it, on a military range, on a portal, a disturbing title appears – In this Serbian town is expected to shoot, do not go to the parts of the city because you can die. Imagine what it's like to intimidate the people. I could give you a dozen more examples, hundreds, spins and fakes, but I'm asking you, has anyone ever been responsible for that? Was anyone responsible for spreading lies about corpses swimming in Obrenovac during an emergency situation in the country, when certain media lied to themselves to create panic among people? Of course not. In Serbia not only there is freedom of opinion, but this freedom is seriously abused, in such a way that it can be spoken without any sanctions, responsibilities and consequences. In Serbia, anyone can write whatever his will, no matter how many lies he makes and insults they can violate his reputation, not only Serbia and not just such public opinion. I hope, honourable MPs, that the elected members of the Council in the future will pay much more attention to the real protection of freedom of the media, that they will sanction abuse and irresponsible use of it. In the voting day, I will only give my vote to such candidates, who will in future protect us from irresponsible and faceless media non-protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2866	The word has Balša Bozovic, and be prepared by Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2867	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, the election of members of the Council and the debate that we have held today certainly concerns the opposition, and I believe a large part of Serbia's citizens, for the simple reason that the atmosphere in which REM has persistently allowed the main and responsible editor of all the media in Serbia to be just one man. This is what we have on several occasions today had the opportunity to discuss when representatives of the regime say – private media with national frequency, which is public good, can do whatever they want. The private media in Serbia cannot do what they want, it is the essence and that is the point. The private media cannot, through the editor-in-chief of all the media in Serbia, when in financial problems, receive political loans for their work. Only those selected, private televisions that have a national frequency, which is public good, can do that. This publicly belongs to Serbian citizens, does not belong to one political party, does not belong to one political definition or vision. Annual reports by the European Commission, reports by the OSCE, the Council of Europe, say there is no media freedom in Serbia. It's the reports. That's what this Europe is talking about, which you're advocating. What does that mean? This means that an atmosphere has been created that there is no single pillar in the media of the national frequency, not a single second or a minute when we can discuss what is being signed in Brussels when it comes to Kosovo, whether it is agreed that Trepca belongs to the Kosovo government. The media in Serbia is silent about it. That is what silence is about today in Serbia. What kind of programme do Serbian citizens watch today? What do the media expect with a national frequency? Does culture or spine and ham prevail? Do educational character programs prevail, or do hate, violence, debauchery, chauvinism, prosacuity prevail? I think the citizens of Serbia know that best. What system of values today offers a TV program, or television with a national frequency? Do those who are users of national frequencies today promote debate, promote diversity of opinion, or just promote only one - mindedness? It often happens that when it comes to private television, which has all the rights and no obligations in this country, which is prone to the regime, to sow hate, to sow fear and panic among Serbian citizens. Often we hear here that there is an emergency that the Serbian prime minister has not heard of, and that no one is responding, that REM does not fulfil, no warnings, no punishment. In such a country, we cannot count on the freedoms that require, above all, the citizens of Serbia. I think it's a particular question of everything about cross-border channels and that smuggling that a colleague from the opposite camp was talking about. Tens of millions of euros remain unpaid. I asked Minister Vujovic on several occasions, and he did not want to give a concrete answer. Tens of millions of euros are smuggled in such a way as to allow someone to advertise without paying taxes to Serbia. I'm done. I still get my impressions every week. At the end of every week, I get my impression, no one can take that away from me, and in the end, I'm used to it. The impression this week is the silence of taking Trepce by the Kosovo government that is ruling in the media in Serbia, and so much courage of the regulatory body and so much courage of the media with the national frequency, which is public good, not to report for one single second, not a single minute, that no one can ask a question without anyone wanting to answer. It's a Serbia that doesn't know freedom and that kind of Serbia we're going to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2868	The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2869	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the debate that has been going on for the second day, we have realized that this point is very important, a point on the agenda. The debate that marked these days was again by who knows which time contained some things that simply had no place here. They've heard each other again, for who knows which time, various arguments or half-arguments that don't have much to do with the truth, but if you ask me, they don't have much to do with logic or common sense. The most talk was about the state of the media, the quality of the media, censorships, reality programs and the like. Then the question arises, and who negotiates? Really, who's talking to us? The ones who set the RTS on fire? Is it those who set fire to the RTS building after they set fire to the National Assembly building? Do they object to us, to come to power, to execute the coup, so that we can with the phantoms and the rifles come in and take the property? They love these little boys by the way. Do they complain about censorship? What censorship? The previous speaker tried, insinuated that some organisations were involved in censorship in Serbia. Never any relevant organization. No official organisation has ever found that censorship exists in Serbia, never one. Don't make it up. The only censorship, the real censorship I know, was at the time of "Sablje", she was in a state of emergency. There was a genius who praised “Sablja” yesterday, who praised the state of emergency and “Sablje” liquids, and is not ashamed. That's when you arrested people, chased people, locked people up, closed the media. How many men have you arrested in Sabre? How much is released? How many convictions were there? How many media have you closed down in "Sabre"? There were no congregation transfers from March to September of that year, just to remind you, Madam President. Primitiveism, estradisation, vulgarization of media space, reality programs, so these are your products, so that's what happened in your time, so these are your products. In a completely irrational way, you are trying to put us in charge today of what your hands are doing. In your time, reality programs and everything else, the consequences of which we all suffer today, I agree, but it's your product. As in your day, it was just the scariest censorship, the real censorship, the media darkness, in the true sense of that word. Media dark spins, these are your products. There was no such thing in Serbia before. Spinning as a notion didn't exist until Gilas introduced him. Party TV, and that's your product. Well, you made party television. A Serbian Progressive Party or another opposition party could not appear on Study B for one second at the time. It's totally unacceptable for me, Madam Chairman, that they resent us today and honor us with some lessons about some kind of censorship. It's those who, every day, in every place, launch the most monstrous accusations and the most disgusting lies about Alexander Vukic and the members of his family, every day, in every place and never lacked hair from their heads because of it. No one ever touched them because of it, and every day they lie, in every place. I read all the daily newspapers. I know very well how much representation is being given by the parties in "Blica" and "News" and "Politica" and "Today" and in other media. Status in the media. The situation in the media isn't perfect, of course it's not perfect. I'm not happy with the state of the media either. I have a grudge, too. I would rather have some media deal with some, as they say, investigative journalism, to ask the question of how is it that only one or two media maybe in the country has launched, or dared to ask the question – where did Bozovic get the money to winter in the Maldives? We have a bright example of the media that was the only one able to ask – Balsha, where do you, masters, have money to winter in the Maldives for 1,500 euros? The only medium asked that. To see the media ask a question as far as the Hetherledn case is concerned. Is anyone else involved in this? Except Pajtic avoids showing up at the hearing, escapes when the hearing is held. Let's see who took money for children with developmental disorders, who stole money from children. Should we remind you what that looked like? Should we remind you that the renovation of Hetherland has been done? That's what the media needs more to do. These are my objections to the state of the media, therefore. To see how the pastures were built on the Sorceress.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2870	Ambassador, if you'll just give me one second. Here you are, Branislav Mihajlović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2871	Let me just finish in one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2872	Branislav Mihajlović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am the first. No, you're not the first, I see. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I am the head of the parliamentary group. Where does that say? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branislav Mihajlovic. Find me where he says when the head of the parliamentary group raises the second, third Rules of Procedure, he has the advantage? Here you go, Branislav Mihajlović. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the post: The boss answered. You're not the chairman. So, you're raising the Rules of Procedure, and you have no serious intention of talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I want him to know the public to raise ten MPs on the left, the Rules of Procedure, as some kind of choreography, have no serious intention of saying anything about hurting the Rules of Procedure. When I call an MP who keeps raising the Rules of Procedure, they look and say, "boss." The term of office belongs to an MP, doesn't belong to the boss, I guess that's how much we know. So I won't give it to you now because this is a performance of our Parliament's work and a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So this isn't choreography. I can offer you to participate in a festival or something, but don't be silly. This doesn't make sense. (Saša Radulović, from place: Article 103(3)) I apologize to the MP for interrupting him. Would you like to continue the discussion? I'm sorry. So we don't want to make a circus, and it's a bad circus from parliament. You can't do that. Here you go. You're not in the system. Try the second unit. I apologize to you, but I had to do this because it really doesn't make sense. We're devising a breach of the Rules of Procedure that's a very serious matter, and it's not a stupid thing to do here. Don't throw it away, this is parliament. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How do you throw? I can't throw. Don't be rude. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You interrupt the MP. That's right. I'm interrupting to show what an MP group is doing for camera purposes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You cannot, according to the Rules of Procedure, have no home education. I can, I can. And for your home education, talk to my mother. A little respect that you have against the parents of all of us. Here you go. Ambassador, I will give a word to the other MP, and I will give it to you because I personally have made it impossible for you to discuss. I apologize to the SNS parliamentary group. So you won't. Will you or won't you? You will. Here you go. But somehow, how do I explain to you, you have to sign in. I have a lot of patience. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2873	Thank you, Chairman. I sign up all the time, and you don't give me a word. All the time, the speaker's been hurting a member of the 106. Rules of Procedure 1 that the speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Also, you, as chairman, are in violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 103(3), which says – the President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to a violation of the position of the 1st member immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2874	Don't yell, you're the first one to raise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2875	I wanted to give priority to my president of the parliamentary group, and you wouldn't let me do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2876	You can't give an advantage to anyone. I'll just wait for the ovations to stop. You can't give an advantage and a word to anyone, you know, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Branislav Mihajlović, from the city: Advantage is given by the Rules of Procedure, not by me! Don't yell, really, I'll interrupt the session. I have the impression that someone would like a break, and I won't, and I want to work because we need to understand that there are MPs who want us to take a break, that we don't choose anyone, and then they're going to say that we're obstructing REM's choice. And this question is a year old, as far as I can tell, only someone has a selective memory, and someone doesn't, relative to the Rules of Procedure. So all the MPs today were talking about the state of the media. No one was talking about the candidates. Now let me ask the MPs exactly what the candidates are called and what it says in their biographies, I don't know if they'd interrupt or not interrupt the session. Therefore, speakers from your parliamentary group have not said a word. Come on, you said the word. And others said the word. Others said REM, so they talked about something else. I don't know why you're even responding to Mr Markovic's SNS MPs' discussion. Where'd you guys meet here? So he's been talking about the subject that's been going on for two days, and if you want someone here to have a strict teacher, so he can say, "He can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, don't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, don't, don't, can't, won't. Well, choose, it's no problem. You want to vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure? (Branislav Mihajlović, from town: Yes. ) (Saša Radulović, from town: Yes. I'm not asking you, I suppose your MPs are allowed to say something without you suggesting it. So, MP Mihajlovic is an individual herself who protects him from the Constitution. It's his term of office. Is that right? Yeah, like when you said it yesterday, she said she wasn't well, so she broke up with her speech, and after half an hour, she was fine. Don't do that, it's not good for your group, for your image, simply, free-thinking people here. I'd like to help my young colleagues next time, please, but we've been working for a few months now. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2877	Thank you. You've injured Article 107. You have offended the Rules of Procedure with the dignity of the messengers of the people and of the National Assembly; you have spoken with an inappropriate dictionary of the messengers of the people. You act as if you are a schoolteacher, and you certainly are not, and I am still teaching you in article 103, says that the advantage of advertising is to be given to representatives of parliamentary groups. You just gave a whole speech about it, and you didn't go back, I think you owe an apology to the MP's group, because you're ignoring Article 103(3) and I want to vote on this violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2878	Article 103 has already been used, so we can't vote twice. We'll only vote for the injury. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I said 107.) That's funny. Try witty. You said a member of 103, and then you told me... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I said 107.) Okay. We'll take a stenogram, so you'll apologize to me, both to the public and to Parliament. So 107 and 103. (Saša Radulović, from the post: I advertised 107th and explained to you also 103th how you destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. ) You said Articles 107 and 103. Article 103(3) was used by Mr Mihajlovic, a previous MP. You won't do anything with me by violence. Great, tweet about it. We will vote in favour of what MP Mihajlovic said, and you don't have to listen, and we will vote on 107, what you said, but twice can't. All the members of the Rules of Procedure apply, not just what one likes or doesn't like. So it can't do the same thing twice, it means just 107 for you and 103 for the previous MP. When I finish MP Markovic, you get the replica safely, he has to finish his speech. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I get a replica?]] A little problem, I had to break up because the fifteen raised the Rules of Procedure out of pure peace, and when I called the MP, he said, "I won't take my boss." I apologize to Balshi Bozovic. It's abuse, it really can't. Here you go, MP, finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2879	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for letting me bring the speech to an end. Only in one sentence. I am expressing hope that the National Assembly will elect good candidates for the REM Council and the SNS will support the best candidates from what has been offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2880	I thank you, and I apologize one more time. Another lesson from the Rules of Procedure. So, when it is authorized by a certain item of the agenda and the head of the parliamentary group is entitled to speak and all the rights of the Rules of Procedure are drawn up by an authorised promoter. The MPs must know that. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Does this apply to SNS MPs? ) This applies to everything, the Rules of Procedure must be known fantastically, and MPs who talk about violence in parliament and do not listen, think that however they imagine it, it does not apply. Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2881	I thank the president. A colleague who spoke a little bit, obviously has a problem, has a problem of a personal nature that I wouldn't really go into, but I would advise him to consult with a professional. That fascination with my personality, where I winter, where I fly, really fascinates me. Yes, I live perfectly normal according to my incomes, my property has been reported to me, it's public information as a MP you can check and I don't know what the problem is. When it comes to Mr. Sutanovac, he led as you know the Ministry of Defence and has been the best minister in the government since 2008-2012. The most comprehensive and complicated military reform managed to implement it, followed by Minister Aleksandar Vukic. I remind you once again, that no misapplication was against Mr. Sutanovac whom you accuse of various malfeasances, machinations that are the fruit of your imagination and your inability to answer the question, which is why today there is no rule of law in Serbia, which is why there are no media freedoms, which is why citizens do not live better after your four years in power while you are the only ones who live better. It's you who have three, four, five salaries. It is you who, based on the resources of Serbia, are harvesting fruits while Serbian citizens are poorer, unconstitutionally reduced pensions, police officers and soldiers have no salaries. And you can deal with my private life to evil, but to tell you the truth, I don't think the citizens will live better than your inventions and lies on mine or at the expense of Dragan Sutanovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2882	The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2883	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I must say that I have no four or five incomes, I have one single receipt of a MP who has been reported neatly to the Anti-Corruption Agency. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Why the replica now?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2884	Please, they're just yelling at me, if you can protect me. Here you go, Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2885	So, I would just like to point out because of the citizens of Serbia, that I have no four or five incomes, that I have one receipt of a MP who has been reported neatly to the Anti-Corruption Agency, but once again, the previous speaker has avoided being willing to answer the question of where the money came from. With what I have to say, it's in his interest. It is in his interest to explain this because Serbian citizens have already nicknamed him. His nickname is the Duke of Maldives, and I very well-intentionedly advise him to explain, but also to convey to his colleagues, therefore, the Duke of Heinniken, who is currently not in the Assembly, the Duke of Pasture, the Duke of Brion, and the Duke of Pasture, I could also ask him where he got the money for a 35,000-euro watch he's carrying and it's not a secret. Of course, the latest duchess of Strasbourg is making us some tricks in Strasbourg, not us as SNS, but the state of Serbia, which only speaks of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2886	The word is Saša Radulović, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2887	Article 106 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, we need to talk about the agenda point, it's really not about the Maldives, you have to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, to stick to the agenda, this really doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2888	This was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2889	I want you to vote. It doesn't matter if it was a replica or not, I want it voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2890	It doesn't matter, does it? Doesn't matter what the replica is? Okay. Thank you. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. This is a replica. (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: absolutely, whoever is speaking. Don't yell at me, you're very aggressive today. Easy, we're just starting to work, and we've had four years ahead of us. You can't, because this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I'll take two minutes, I'll tell you this very well-meaningly. You can't answer my question. I'll take two minutes. Thank you for coming to Parliament to teach us what it says in the Rules of Procedure, thank you very much. Wait a minute, I have a lot of patience, you don't even know how much patience I have. So, I want to answer Sasha Radulovic's question about waving the Rules of Procedure. You can't while I'm talking about a previous breach of the Rules of Procedure to immediately raise the Rules of Procedure, it's an abuse and that you have an objection to my answer. How can I explain this to you? I have the right to my opinion and my position. And I defend my actions, and it also says in the Rules of Procedure. So you found the wrong speaker to wave at the Rules of Procedure and abuse the Rules of Procedure. And I'm holding back from telling you the first step, and you're very close. I tell you this because you have been misusing the Rules of Procedure for four months – and waving, and descending, and making it impossible for your colleagues to work. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica. But you don't have to talk about REM, you have to return the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2891	Thank you, President of the Assembly. The time of the duke and the duchess also marked the time of the court mad. I wouldn't go back to that time. I think it's very bad when we talk about someone's private life, I repeat once again, imagine what it would be like to talk about the private life of a prime minister or his brother, or the property of high-ranking officials of the Democratic Party and of the Serbian Progressive Party, without getting into the mud, the fungi, the slanders and everything that the courts will eventually have to solve, precisely because of this kind of thing, of my previous speaker. I also sued the newspaper "Informer", and I sued Mr. Vucicevic for falsely told in that public opinion. So, I repeat, whether I went on vacation or not with my girlfriend, it's my private business. And I wouldn't want it to be presented in the main topic. And my property is, I repeat, public, because I live out of a reception that has a MP, by law. On the other hand, I don't call citizens lazy who sit around the house all day complaining there's no heating, even though they paid for Infostan, but it's what the ruling regime does. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What did I just say? [[Disabled microphone.]] I've got 30 seconds left. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2892	I don't know, really. You don't have 30 seconds, you have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2893	Thank you. I think only once again that untrues and lies will not make Serbian citizens live better. They cut their salaries and pensions, didn't cut their salaries and pensions tops...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2894	Thank you, MP. I totally agree that we should get back on the subject. So, no more replicas. You must wait for the second round of replicas. I just don't agree that there are different criteria, for one of these, for others like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2895	They tell lies and lie forever, and have nothing to offer. They've been in power for four years. It's a disaster. They don't have heat in their limbs, and they pay for Infostan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2896	I'm giving a minute to make a break, because this really doesn't make any sense anymore. Just a minute and we'll go on the list. Remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2897	Like, citizens are lazy that they're in the house and they don't have a 19 degree heat, you can think insolent, and on the other hand they're paying Infostan neatly, and they're punished for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2898	I don't care who gets out of the O.R. Balša Bozovica, please, for your own good, your microphone is on. Everything you've said has gone into the air. For your own sake, hold on. I ask the MPs not to earn each other and not to warm up the bad atmosphere. Since you're yelling in the break, I guess I can yell in the break, too, huh? Here, we're back on topic. Now we're gonna talk, I'm convinced, about the candidates. The next speaker is Vladimir Djuric, followed by Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2899	Thank you. According to the classical definition, democracy is such a social arrangement where political decisions are made by competent and well-informed individuals. The assumption is, therefore, that these citizens are well informed, that they can recognize the general good and make competent decisions. It is clear from this how important the role of electronic media is. In Serbia, unfortunately, they serve to serve citizens with imaginary coups and similar content for drinking citizens. The REM Council shall not perform its functions. He is operating illegally because six months before the term of office no election of members of the Council was launched in front of media and news associations and NGOs. The REM Council, unfortunately, has neither built capacity nor integrity. We believe that the proposed candidates will not change anything about this. At the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Information, on the question which laws regulate the field of his work, one of the candidates literally answered – applicable laws. The same candidate answered the question – which powers are in line with this law – only – in the context of applicable laws, without giving any details. The REM Council did not at the same time sanction media behaviour in the pre-election campaign, and it had to respond to everything that was indicated in the OSCE Report after the elections, that the conditions for presentation in the pre-election campaign were irregular. The Anti-Corruption Council in its Report also presented the problem of a non-transparent ownership structure and described various ways of influence on the media. These are all the things we think even the newly proposed REM Council candidates will not be able to deal with. The best method of influence on the media is by putting control of their funding channels, and that is, for example, when the minister discreetly abolishs the funds of project financing to individual media and thus runs over the commission's decision, whose member was in front of REM. Is REM then independent of the executive and will the proposed candidates manage to preserve the independence of this regulatory body? We don't think so. Some media comply with force, and some do so kindly, offering obedience in exchange for the Export Insurance Agency's loan, to finance tax debts. The outcome is that they have been put in a position of soap or force dependent on the executive authority. If our state were legal, there would be no tax debt, whose funding would be traded for obedience, propaganda services and defamation services and denunciation of political insinuation, with the service of citizens with contributions from guests who have seen aliens in public transport. If our state were legal and democratic institutions had been developed in it, we would not have REM without integrity, with membership formed against the law or by acting on legal procedures. If our state were legal, we'd have REM that wouldn't be silent about taking the radar off the Vojvodina Radio-Television program, cleaning up this public service's editorial. We'd have REM that would support tv, which I'm going to do this time, from this pay phone. The REM Council is operating illegally and, in all likelihood, in the illegal composition, and therefore, we believe that the existing REM members would demonstrate their integrity best by resigning and that new REM members should not be chosen before that. Let us remain confident that we expect nothing further from these candidates for the REM Council, and this will be proven through media content in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2900	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Get Tatjana Macura ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2901	Thank you. President-in-Office, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I choose to talk about the agenda point, so I will talk about the election of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, from the list of candidates submitted by authorised promoters. I remind you, the representatives of the Associations are the aims of achieving freedom of expression and protection of children, the Association of electronic media publishers and the committee of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Purely because of the truth and the information for the public. We have had opportunities to hear different information about the degree of freedom of the media in Serbia in the past two days, as far as we are discussing this item of the agenda. I met today with official data provided by Reporters Without Borders. Serbia made progress in the previous year, a report submitted by Reporters Without Borders in March 2016 for the 2015 period, for eight places on the ranking list when it comes to the media freedom index. So, Serbia is in front of a number of EU member states, ahead of Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, but we are also leaders when it comes to the Balkan countries, because we are in front of Albania, BiH, Macedonia, which is the lowest-ranked country from the Balkans and is even 118th in place. Finland has been a country that has been convincingly first on this ranking list for six years, followed by Holland and Norway. It is interesting that this report says that Europe's countries continue to have the greatest freedom of the media, while Africa is first in front of America, in which violence against journalists is reportedly on the rise. Let's go back to what we're talking about today, which is the choice of REM members. The High Priority of the Committee on Culture and Information was what he proved in practice at the second, fourth and fifth session of the Committee on Culture in the new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a procedure was carried out for selecting candidates for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, proposed by authorised promoters. Everything is absolutely done by law and by the Law on Electronic Media. So, from beginning to end, the whole process was transparent. I remind you, members of the Committee on Culture held at the 5th session, held on 22 September 2016, held a conversation with the proposed candidates for the REM Council, the whole process of public calling, candidacy, application, ran in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, but all members and deputies of this committee can testify that the whole process of running and proposing was in accordance with the law. My colleague, Snezana Paunović, informed you yesterday as rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information about the concrete procedure and the steps taken both for the public call and for the legal deadline provided for by the law, which includes 15 days that the proposed promoter has had since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". Also, I'd like to point out the next thing. The Committee concluded that all necessary documentation prescribed by the Law on Electronic Media was submitted with the candidates' proposals. The list of candidates has been published on the National Assembly website, with the whole process being done in another way in a transparent and valid manner. The original documentation of the proposed candidates, I would like to inform the public, is in the service of the Committee on Culture and Information and is available to all MPs. So all 250 MPs had the opportunity to take advantage of the right and have been made available to them with data related to both the biography and all other documentation needed and which was defined by a public call. Today I will not analyse individual biographies of the proposed candidates for members of the REM Council but I will point out why it is important that this body works in its full capacity. I would like to remind you that a set of media laws was passed in August 2014, that it was more than positively assessed by all relevant institutions, first by the European Commission, then by other domestic and foreign institutions in Serbia and abroad, and it is up to us to, as well as other laws, and these laws, to take care of their application and respect in practice. On the basis of a member of the Law on Electronic Media, REM was established by the Law on Electronic Media. The regulator is an independent independent regulatory organisation, with legal personality, which exercises public authority in order to implement an effective established policy in the field of the provision of media services in the Republic of Serbia, improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, then contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression. Then, in order to protect public interest in the field of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services in accordance with the provisions of this law in a manner appropriate to a democratic society. So these are the provisions that entered the component of the Electronic Media Act, which we adopted in 2014. It's a procedure we want to respect when it comes to filling in, or selecting the Board of Regulators. The Board of Regulators, I want to remind the general public, has nine members. They are selected from the ranks of prominent experts from areas which are important for the performance of REM’s tasks. So there are media experts, economists, lawyers, telecommunications engineers. A member of the Council is elected for a period of five years, with the possibility of being re-elected to that post again. Members of the Council are elected by the National Assembly. I therefore call on all my fellow Members of the People to exercise their right in the day of voting and to decide, in accordance with their intention, on the candidates proposed. Now I would refer to a phenomenon that is very, so to speak, waved at Serbia's political scene. It is about the manner of individual MPs to try in every way to discredit the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. The last example you can see from the press releases these days is the situation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, when the Serbian delegation is blocked by the work of complaints from DS, or one MP that is no longer part of this delegation. So, the manner of the MPs is to discredit the government's work in every way, the results of the government led by Aleksandar Vukic. Serbian citizens are in the last elections, and that's what I want to remind you, and that's what I especially want to point out, they've decided who they support. The composition of parliamentary delegations and other working bodies reflects the will of the people, as MPs are represented in these working bodies based on the proportions of mandates won. Also, I would like to point to another phenomenon on the public scene of Serbia. If you are, for example. A foreigner who travels through Serbia watching electronic media for at least one day, if you were a stranger, would have gained the opinion that the Serbian prime minister or president is someone else, not Mr Nikolic and Mr Vukic. Paradoxically, it is also paradoxical that the political coalition that won the elections on 24 April 2016 is at least represented in certain media. Citizens gave absolute confidence in the list of Alexander Vukic, his policy, results achieved in the previous period, and when you look at individual media or when you do a simple qualitative and quantitative analysis of the media content of certain media, you would think that someone else in Serbia took responsibility for the exercise of power. The greatest insults, the greatest lies you can find about MPs of the ruling coalition. You can also find insults both false and about members of the government, but convincingly highly ranked on the list of insults that go to the prime minister, untrue about his family, members of his team. The key word I want to finish my exposure today is responsibility. In this regard, it is important that we continue the process of starting reform in the field of information, to continue to implement a media strategy in general, to complete the process of withdrawing the state from the media, to find a sustainable solution to the functioning of public regulations. Once again, the key word that we all often lack is responsibility. We must introduce responsibility for the publicly spoken word, then responsibility for the professional performance of the entrusted work, no matter what function it was in, but we must introduce both responsibility and the spending of our money, the money of the citizens of Serbia. Whether we are in the National Assembly or Government today or in public service or at the head of another institution, we must have responsibility for the financial resources coming from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2902	The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2903	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted, but not at this pay phone. I ask you most nicely, Your Honor, since you are the ones who can hurt the Rules of Procedure, we have learned this from you, on many occasions you have stated that you would be the happiest to be here and to be in the topic. I ask you, what prevents you from fulfilling this desire for yourselves, and for all of us, so that you may remain in the matter for the rest of this session and for the next time? These sessions are topics – we choose members of the REM Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2904	I am prevented from discussing Vladimir Djuric, who did not talk about electing REM candidates. (Vladimir Djuric, from the place: Yes. It is, it's funny, but if you had a special room, so just agree with yourself, and I have to compromise with 240 MPs plus myself. So let people talk in the debate the way it started yesterday. Is it my fault, so I was supposed to cut right off on the third speaker who started talking about Alexander Vuk and Vlad, and I admit it was my fault, but I didn't think I should censor it, so then I got the criticism on that side.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2905	Your happiness is in your hands, you said you'd be the happiest if it was the order in the O.R., so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2906	It's not luck in my hands, it's business. Don't throw it away, it's not nice. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Can I approach? You can't come near, I'm running a session after, you'll just wait. Thank you. Just a moment to read Tatjana Macura, get Aleksandra Tomic ready. Here you go. Come forward. I'm sorry. [[Vesna Marjanović, from the site: I asked for a replica.]] The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2907	Thank you, Madam President...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2908	Okay, this is an abuse of approach. Please don't come near me while the session is running, because what do you have in this sense to tell me, you'll say after the session or at some break. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2909	I appreciate that, but if you can't take my time. Very briefly, since I want to support your position to talk about the subject and to rely on what the predecessor said about responsibility for the public word, which I suppose, first of all, should apply to us. So, all day long, I've been seeing this primitive joke about what's been going on in the Council of Europe. I think it's extremely inappropriate and inadequate. It is a person who has successfully represented Serbia in this large international organisation for years, who has made a statement that it has not in any way affected the procedures in the Council of Europe, nor is it possible in any such serious organisation. If SNS MPs base their views on culinary tips in the Council of Europe, let them remain on it. The facts, if they wish to establish, should be addressed to the Socialist Group of the Council of Europe, made up of MEPs from 47 countries of Europe who are members of this important organisation. So please stick to the facts, and those defamations of personalities that you have begun to do again in the last days, try to forget it doesn't belong to this Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2910	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2911	I was given the right to reply because this was not about replicating the previous speaker, but it was about my statement here yesterday, given and the media, but also about meeting the entire tide with the status situation, that is, the mandate and the accreditation of our delegation in the Council of Europe. What the MP said now absolutely does not correspond to the full truth. I don't want any credit to fall on our delegation, whose mandates have been disputed, immediately called and told and presented the information they received in the Council of Europe itself. We all agree that MP Natasa Vukkovic did not formally write and complained about the fact that she is no longer a member of this delegation, nor does the DS have the mandate of a member or deputy in our permanent delegation to the Council of Europe. In her own statement, she said - informally I did. It was informally enough because she is the vice president of the European Socialist Group and she has introduced her colleagues to the fact that DS does not have a member in the delegation. Yesterday, an MP from the United Kingdom, who received the task in front of his group to bring to the table and support of 15 MPs, apologized to the Committee for not being familiar, in detail, with our procedure, with the number of votes and the number of mandates that individual parliamentary groups, i.e. the lists, won and the fact that DS is the third or fourth largest here by opposition parties. I'm only saying this for the public, because I have the impression that the MPs of the DS are well aware of the procedure here, that they voted at the end for the assembly of delegations, but that the remark went to special channels in the Council of Europe, which is really not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2912	Thank you. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2913	Thank you. According to Article 104, there is no basis for this replica and it seems that the rule applies in this assembly – all MPs are equal, only some are more equal than others. Please don't abuse the replica when the president of the assembly comes to mind to talk about what she wants to talk about. I want you to vote on this injury to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2914	The chairman didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. He gave me a replica because the previous replica was not addressed to the speaker at all, but directed to what was happening the day before. People's MPs are getting out of town. Is there anything I can think of? Yeah, often, 'cause I have brains. It's a good thing they said the president had a mind, so something came up. I think it's a big discovery. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to announce Article 106: "During the speech of the Members of the People and of the other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. “ Article 109 of Section 1(4) says: “The warning is made to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in his presentation or throws it away, that is to say, he interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. “ All day long, we have been watching an MP group, which I call “never enough, ” which interferes with speakers in various ways, which happened during the presentation of the previous speaker. I'm not particularly touched, nor am I concerned with their choreography, which is suited to the cheerleading groups and there in South Korea...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2916	Member of the Parliament, please, I've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure on me. Tell me what you got.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2917	Ma'am, I'm not worried that they look like Tito's landing. I'm a little older, so I remembered that, but that's the way to distract the speakers when you were talking and when the missus was talking behind me. So it's inappropriate and it's supposed to be a warning sentence. I ask that you apply this rule, especially according to the group leader, whom I call "never enough", because as the speakers speak he walks here like a brake tomatoes and thus additionally interferes with colleagues and colleagues who speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2918	Thank you. I agree with everyone. You all obviously expect me to be much stricter. Do you want us to vote on the injury? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's Messenger Tatjana Macura has the word, and let the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Tomic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2919	Ladies and gentlemen, after we've absorbed a few members of the Rules of Procedure here in detail, I'd like to go back to the subject that we're talking about today. Today we choose members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. With that in mind, I would refer to the biography and so far the impact of one of the candidates. In fact, Mr. Goran Pekovic has a really great biography, there is a great work behind him and a great contribution, both in the media and in the education system, and I can say that his biography, by all accounts, indicates that he is a respected gentleman. It could be concluded, after being elected member of the former RRA in 2009, that is, he could be expected to be one of those impartial, safe and responsible members of this important Council. In public, Mr. Pekovic himself comes at the moment when, on behalf of the RRA then, he utters a reminder of a humorous show, or a show called "Mental Expansion", under the pretext that the RRA always responds when something comes out of the frame of humor. In that show, to remind you, there was talk of the President of the Republic of Serbia. With these controversial warnings, we actually get the impression that journalists are in a clear way sanctioned for an appropriate or inappropriate way of humor. This show is just one example of how every mention of government is sanctioned in a negative context. At the same time, the current REM in which Mr. Pekovic continued his membership does not pay attention to not sanctioning the content in shows of reality programs that send a far greater number of bad messages, which only aim to shift public attention from very important day-to-day political topics, or sanction emissions or show authors who tried to approach their journalistic call responsibly and respect the profession. So today we don't have a show like "The Impression of the Week". To this kind of censorship or self-censorship of REM, none of their members, nor Goran Pekovic himself, have even responded to a warning either privately or what the profession commits them to, and with full right, the current public can question the independence of this candidate. My strongest impression today is the devastating influence of political powers on the independence of the media at all. I am also impressed that we still do not have a report on the election campaign, although during the entire election campaign we have almost daily listened to REM meet daily. Since this merely re-candidated Mr. Pekovic as a member of the former RRA, the current REM, has caused a number of intriguing situations on the Committee on Culture and Information, it just means that Mr. Pekovic is recognized as someone who understands the needs perfectly, or someone who hears the messages of political powers perfectly and whose interests will continue to protect him by his current work in the composition of the council.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2920	The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2921	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members, we have heard a lot when we talk about candidates, but let's repeat, so the committee has made a decision that Milan Petkovic, Biljana Ratković Čavin, Goran Pekovic, Velimir Milosevic are in fact a list of candidates for the REM Council, which is proposed by organisations that together make up the approved list of promoters. We're picking two members. But what to say is certain that, based on the presentations and co-workers who are members of the Committee on Culture and Information, the procedure has been carried out perfectly, that what was certainly heard on that committee about the candidate's discussion is one constructive debate and discussion on which the candidate is better and on which we will only make a decision. Our parliamentary group will have a meeting of the parliamentary group before the voting day, and then, practically, decide which candidates we will vote for. What is important to say is that REM as a regulatory body according to its competences should ensure that each medium provides free, objective, true and timely information, but that people who, practically, will do this job should at any moment overcome their personal animosities within the institution itself, but also personal attitudes, which each of them simply has, and simply solves problems that have certainly been imposed over these years. The problems that we need people to choose to solve that were practically once, and sometimes the problems were about not doing their job, because they were not allowed to do their job, because the political impact by 2012 was so great that their opinion should never have been delivered at any time without being approved by the highest instance of the government until 2012. Today’s problems relate to solving imposed problems. Public issues that are being addressed under the name, censorship, self-censorship, dictatorship. Let us also open a story on censorship, and that the EU has given a positive opinion on a whole set of media laws adopted by this National Assembly. That in a report on Serbia's progress by both the European Commission and last year's and the previous year's progress, we heard from my colleague, that there are organisations that have been doing the report, and that Serbia has progressed eight places in this area. When we talk about censorship, simply, in a country where both the president of the state and the prime minister of the state are represented by many media houses, but also the printed media, in the worst possible way, with the loathsome things that apply on a personal basis to family members, that it is simply not a characteristic of the countries where censorship exists. And give me a country where this kind of censorship exists. On the other hand, when we talk about investigative journalism, it was obvious that the parties of the former regime needed to call for the help of certain NGOs that were created solely to deal with the placement of untruths and lies. When you take two years and look at how many of these lies were completely understandable anything the SNS organized an exhibition of uncensored lies, where in two years, I examined all the titles that were and found that there were 6732 of which it had only 2523 titles, directly from all those media that had the possibility and gave their own visions, not only the prime minister as the man who led the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia but also on the personal basis where the private data was provided, where the people of his nearest environment, which was not recorded at the time of Mr Tadic, nor at the time of Mr Kostunica, or even at the time of Mr Slobodan Milosevic. It's a fact and a fact that you can't change. For certain NGOs dealing with BIRN-type investigative journalism, the quieter BIROT is funded by certain EU projects, according to media monitoring projects on certain topics, we now have a yellow duck that deals with media monitoring of certain urban structures. You can see that there are orchestrated lies that are placed on Serbia's media scene. This is what we cannot escape from in Serbia, and this is what evidence is that those who ruled until 2012 lost sources of funding in which, especially those media houses that had paid for it, so I will advertise you, run their political campaigns, run their own personal campaigns as successful businessmen, had certain not only media houses, but whole groups that were intermediaries for installing certain programmes, as reality programs and were practically the beginners of such a creation of public opinion in Serbia. Today, the biggest critics are all of these, today the biggest critics and exhibitions the SNS has started to display to Serbia as evidence of what the media image in Serbia looks like and what all political parties are dealing with. What should be said, when we talk about auto-censorship, it should be said that Serbia faces today that media houses are running for money, running for a source of funding. As a result, they set out to popularise the topics that cause sensation in society. This popularization has led to certain reality-type emissions, which we all condemn here and the entire public condemning, being more popular than political emissions. We can't influence that. We can influence them to broadcast, because it's a market, that they broadcast at a time when it's simply very low ratings, but we can't influence that the market is doing its job. What we need to influence is that the quality of the media programme in general, and that it helps REM, must be better, there must be certain criteria by which such programmes will be broadcast in general and that we simply and as MPs raise the voice that all those who want such a market should simply give their vision of the whole media picture in Serbia that it should be better and that our children should learn much better than to be simply obsessed with such reality programs. The political elite, but also educational, as well as parents who simply need to control their children, must participate. What I would say is, when we talk about auto-censorship, it's that certain shows that are listed here are being downloaded because of political influence, that fact simply doesn't stand. Here's why. Because the moment you let the market go and someone wants to go as closely as possible, as a certain media house, then it follows those "piplmetres". If certain shows are found not to have certain ratings, each owner of a particular television house and electronic media will simply take that show off his programme precisely because he wants an ever-increasing inflow in the budget to have as much investment in his media house as possible. So it's completely justified why certain shows aren't so watched. After all, I'm going to tell you with certain elections, political campaigns, the time when it came to even talking about "The impression of the week" in contact with the people, we've heard more and more that people just couldn't watch that show anymore. They've always shut down, and the ratings have occasionally dropped more and more, and it's perfectly logical that this show is simply shut down and not just her. If we are also talking about "The Moment of Truth", as you know, this show was initially very watched until the moment it crossed the practical line of good behavior and culture, and at that moment people were also turning the channel and as soon as that show started falling for its popularity, the owner simply changed and shut down this show. So when we talk about policy censorship at all and when we talk about self-censorship related to reality programs on one commercial basis, the attempt of the former regime is to equalize those two things. It will never be and will never be simplified. That's the difference between you and me. We simply don't see politics as a commercial thing and we don't see it as something that's for sale. Political ideas should really have their own media space, be on a certain level of communication, and we should really talk to the facts. When we talk about censorship and when we talk about RTS, we should say that if we talk about censorship, here's just an example of yesterday's half-eight RTS journal. Serbia's assembly is represented by all political parties, only not by SNS MPs. The story of how problems for the verification of the mandate in the Council of Europe were and that it was simply a problem for the whole of Serbia was not mentioned in a single word in the Dnevnik. It should be said that if the English legislators of the Socialist Group, as explained by Mrs Maja Gojkovic, come to certain committees and seek to stop the verification of Serbia's mandate, then that is Serbia's problem. So, it's not the DS problem, it's not the SNS problem, it's the irresponsible policy problem of those who send their representatives to the Council of Europe who are unhappy that they ruled there for 15 years, so they would like to continue to be forced by MPs, but the citizens of Serbia did not give them that trust when one parliamentary party third in a row has no right to have its representative in a specific delegation. So you could never hear something like that on RTS, the problems we have as a state because of the irresponsible policy of the former regime you will never hear on RTS, so I ask you – what censorship are we talking about? Are we talking about a policy censorship run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this congregation majority or are we talking about that some have given themselves the right with the help of certain centres of power to simply create a public opinion so-called. Spinning and simply rebelling the public and lies that ensu the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens have recognised what is true and each time in the elections give their voice to the truth, and so it will be and therefore SNS has no problem with going to the elections and telling Serbian citizens what political platform they should opt for. That is why in the voting day, we will surely support REM candidates who will provide equal representation in the media area and that the truth will always be on the political scene of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2922	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP Ana Stevanovic has the word, and let the MP Marko Parezenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2923	Thank you. I'd just like to remind you of the responsibility of REM. They need to exercise control and control over the work of the emitter. We also need to talk about the qualities and qualifications that candidates must have. One of the conditions set out in the statute, as well as in the Law on Electronic Media, says candidates should have expertise, reputation, visibility, and have top achievements in areas they deal with. I ask one question, if the “Radar” shows from TV and “View” from the Second RTS Programme have already been lifted, if these authors have spoken to the boards of directors, and the boards, as we know, set up by REM, have the boards been silent, has REM held responsibility? Of course there is. Do the candidates have a responsibility? Absolutely they have, even at a time when they are not REM members precisely because they are top professionals, top experts in the areas they deal with. If you're predicating to a function, you must certainly have a responsibility. My colleagues have already mentioned how important responsibility is. So, you as a candidate must stand in defense of the profession, you must stand in defense of your colleagues. The shows I counted weren't shows where the starlets appeared, they weren't reality shows. So they had no reason to be cut off from the program. I've already reminded myself yesterday, and I'm going to repeat today that "Radar" was the only show of this kind in the region, it was extremely critical and it's absolutely clear why it was downloaded. So you as a candidate have to look back at every violation and law, but also moral and ethical postulates. You are a candidate, if you remain silent during the running period like REM absolutely silent, then you are automatically disqualified to be a member of this significant regulatory body. So, according to this, the parliamentary group has had enough to make its decision on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2924	The word has the People's MP Marko Parezenovic, and let the MP Sasa Radulovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2925	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am not going to talk too much about candidates' biographies today, but I will express hope that in the coming period, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, when it begins to function in full composition, will in a significantly better way perform its function, primarily in some kind of media control and improving the quality of the media. I can agree that in the previous period REM did not have sufficient effect on critical relations with certain situations when we had scenes on different media that were inadequate and that could have had a negative impact on mainly minors, therefore, where we had some inappropriate content. We agreed from the SNS parliamentary group and heard a lot of comments that went in critical tone towards REM, that REM had to have this kind of media control and to prevent such situations. Now, how much can REM affect raising the quality of the media and affecting what kind of program will some media broadcast? Commercial media works on some market principle. They want to sell that product that viewers want to buy, under the assumption that they're buying. It works literally like any other market. I don't think in that sense REM can affect what certain media will show the public. It is up to the public to assess whether or not the viewers want to see it. If they looked at these reality programs to a lesser extent, they would broadcast. Simply, the media would broadcast some other programs. Of course, the question is, who even introduced those reality programs? The first "Great Brother" was broadcast in 2006. Now we have a situation that those who have introduced these reality programs are very concerned about the mental health of the nation. I'm very interested in how many MPs there are at that time, 2008, 2009. In 2010, this speaker expressed that concern when you were in power. We could hear today that many SNS MPs spoke very negatively of these phenomena and were critical of REM. Also, there have been a lot of comments on the impact of REM on the objectivity of the media in the election process. I don't think we've ever had a situation like this, that we've never had a weaker opposition that, in my opinion, is never more present in the media than in our own strength. All the time, we have been researching that this party, which has 50% support among Serbian citizens, has a greater presence in the media than some parties that have barely crossed the censorship. I don't see what's weird about it. She was an opposition SNS five or six years ago, and it was a very serious opposition. She was able to collect a million signatures for the election, take over 80,000 people to the streets, win local elections in some very serious municipalities, such as. A leader and a Zemun. We weren't in the media anywhere. Maybe on "Focus Radio" or in the "Justice" list, nowhere else. And today if they had some of that power that SNS has, I'm sure the media wouldn't exist. It is said that the prime minister is too present in the media. I ask the question – what's weird about it? What is strange is that the country's prime minister who makes the most important decisions for this country, meeting with the most powerful leaders in the world, is present in the media? It is quite logical that it is more interesting to the media than whether in opposition, five or six times in a session, or whether they have split into five or six factions, or whether a leader of the opposition has turned one side of the country over millions of euros in taxes. You're also saying -- there's censorship, no one can say anything about the prime minister. I am now asking the question – how many more texts should we have in which the most brutal insult is the Prime Minister, his family, his brother, his son? How much do we have to have the most brutal lies, and it's been proven that every affair they built was a lie? I don't think we have any more individuals on social networks than today who are openly calling for the prime minister's murder. Then when we show it all in one exhibition, when we show a few thousand such texts, such lies, such threats, that's the problem again. So, once again, I want to say that I hope that, in the next period, when this body is working in full composition, to a significantly greater extent, within its competences, above all, in terms of raising the quality and control of the media, and I want the opposition to be as much present in the media as possible, because the more you are in the media, the harder it will be for citizens to forget and always remind themselves of what damage you have done to Serbia and what desolation you have left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2926	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Replica! On what basis? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: The mention of the party. Mr. Milojich, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: opposition, Democratic Party... And you're a representative of the MPs' groups? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Democratic parties. No, you are the MP of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I can give the right to a replica or an authorised representative of the DS or head of the Parliament Club or his deputy. You know that very well. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure! You can't do business. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: How can I not according to the Rules of Procedure? ) If you abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure, be assured that I will apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the abuse of Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you want to? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Yes. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2927	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to know what makes you prejudge what I'm going to talk about. I wanted to advertise Article 106. Rules of Procedure, that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I am not familiar with the fact that the opposition is being investigated here, the divisions within any opposition party, let alone the defamation of opposition parties, which the previous MP spoke of. That's why I wanted to take my word for it, and thank you for letting me take the call, to advertise Article 106. Just in the future, I ask you, as Mr Djurisic, my colleague from the SDS, to give the MPs a word, whether they are the authorities or the opposition, and to have the same treatment for all opposition MPs, as well as for MPs who are from the ruling furniture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2928	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. You have now advertised Article 106, and by the way, as I understand it, your reason for reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure is also related to Article 104, which determines the right to replication. Well, she says nice... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No. Did you mention Mark Djurisic? Well, right then, your colleague, Alexandra Jerkov, couldn't get the word, but I gave it to your head of Parliament, Mr. Ciric. You were referring to it. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: We are talking about this situation now. ) The National MP was on the subject of the agenda, and he also told the candidates about how this independent body worked in the past and had his objections to the influence of the current opposition on his work. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure now? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. One more minute and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2929	Thank you. You didn't give me a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, we're talking about REM, we're talking about the state of the media, and it's interesting that we agreed on both sides of the position and on the side of the opposition, for various reasons, that the situation in electronic media is catastrophic. Apparently MPs of the ruling position think it's disastrous because they don't have enough space on TV. They explain that even the prime minister does not have enough space, and we have heard incredible explanations that say – if someone watched TV in Serbia, they would think that the prime minister is not Vukic, but someone else is. That's their remark. Ours is a little different. We think it's total media darkness, that the opposition doesn't have a chance to speak its mind and it's really REM's fault. The REM's task is to make sure that, for example, in the election campaign, it is equal representation. The OSCE report makes that clear. The result of the election is the direct result of such a situation in the media. Unfortunately, that's how it goes on. I've never been on television with a national frequency since the election. As for REM members, we think they will continue what the current REM members are doing. That's what their biography and everything they've been doing so far confirms, which is that they will blindly listen to the executive authority and the way the government controls the media, in fact, through the budget, or financially. If 30 to 40 percent of the media's income depends on the state, if you're saying something against the state, they're turning that money over to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2930	Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) Right to replication, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if possible. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2931	Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We haven't heard one word here about the agenda point. Why did I answer that? Because the gentleman in question is constantly teaching us how to act, of course, by suffocating parliamentaryism in such a way and constantly telling us how we should be in the dark. Well, now we've heard the presentation of the head of the parliamentary group who severely injured the Rules of Procedure and didn't say a word about the subject. He talked about everything, just not, of course, the subject. You were obliged, of course, to warn him, so I would really ask that they no longer teach us because they are neither teachers nor we are their disciples here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2932	I think that calling on the subject here's what it looks like. If we have candidates for judges elected by the Assembly for the first time, we're talking about a state of justice, and if we have candidates who choose for prosecutors and their deputies, we're talking about the work of the prosecution. So I don't see the Rules of Procedure being broken if anyone's talking about REM's work. It is obvious that his work is not satisfied with the government, because the position does not exist, but the government, and MPs who support the government and the opposition, this is also the former regime. So both are dissatisfied with the work of REM, which seems to me to give hope and trust that this state body may be doing right in the future. The People's Messenger Marko Blagojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2933	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the discussion on the election of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has turned, expected, into a discussion on the state of the media. Analyzing the topic of the media, we can notice that only one television with a national frequency is held neutrally in relation to the government, and most others are involved in unequivocally synchronised attacks on SNS, while for the rest of the government's successes are peripheral news that can't be heard in prime terms reserved for harsh criticism, plots, lies, reality, spine and ham. To remind you of the May 26 news breaking on RTS, the first news was the opinion of Croatian analyst Davor Gener, so that we could find out later during the journal and not so important news that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic met with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin. If there is censorship in Serbia, then the evidence would have to be heard at least in this home, which includes representatives of almost all political parties and movements in Serbia that meant something or sometimes meant something on our political scene, even those who support the people at the level of a statistical error. But the evidence and the charges come down to already seen topics just from the media, mostly intrigue, manipulation, sensational semi-information. Whose voice is not heard in the media today and whose rights have been ignored? The fama around monopolies and censorship is funny, especially in the era of social networks and a large number of different media and media organisations, because what kind of personality or society could control this galaxy that works in the media. Clearly, no one can do that, therefore, the fama about censorship and monopoly is unfavorable, because it is untrue. Placing stories about monopoly and censorship damages Serbia's image because it is said that instead of democracy, totalitarian regimes and autocracy rule, and many battles are ahead of us. I remind you of the ones we got. It's an international battle, a Union or this disgrace with yesterday's scandal in the Council of Europe and the lies we've heard. We need to be polite and raise the debate to the essence of the importance of the media, not to speculate on something that is neither formal nor technical, and is not fundamentally possible. Serbia is undoubtedly a democratic, civilized and sufficiently decorated country. A lot has been said here about the proposed candidates who are actually the subject. I am sure it is clear to everyone that the SNS is not involved in the proposed solutions, as the vote will confirm that it does not want to affect REM independence. She didn't delay, negotiate, or in any other way affect the candidates. I believe that candidates are following our presentations and that is why I want to remind them, both them and the public and you, ladies and gentlemen MPs, that their obligation, among other things, is to encourage the development of media creation, to encourage the development of professionalism and high-level education of employees in electronic media, as well as to improve editorial independence and autonomy of media service providers and most importantly – to promote the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as well as national minorities. I therefore appeal to the elected and future members of the REM Council to be aware that the media play one of the leading roles in our society, the role of collective conscience, that they are therefore obliged to influence the rise of professionalism and social responsibility, that they are obliged to take care of the quality, representation and affirmation of our culture, science, education and history, that they are obliged to show care for Serbs in the region, the diaspora, the theft of our heritage, the end of history. I'm sure none of the above is the attitude we're not all going to agree on, especially in these difficult times for our people and our country. That's why I remind those we've met with our biographies that no one can forbid them to be patriots. I remind you all of Michael Pupin's words that when love of country dies, then the state must die.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2934	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2935	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, let me say only very briefly that I from some personal corner, someone who has chaired the last few sessions of the Committee on Culture and Information and someone who, like other colleagues on our board, has accepted hot potatoes to correct others' mistakes, nelad or failure. Thanks to our joint work and agreement today you have six candidates for which we will soon have, today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I do not prejudge, the possibility of identifying ourselves as three of them who will become REM members afterwards. More, I hope, there will be no regrets that six is not enough number for REM to work properly, although by law six members are really enough and nothing has been compromised by REM's work so far. But this assembly and this ruling majority will also correct some of our predecessors' mistakes. So, on September 9th, we had a session where we received proposals from authorised promoters. Some of the candidates and I also had a chance to talk to each other. One of the candidates list is certainly a list on the proposal of the electronic media issuers' association and journalists' association in the Republic of Serbia who agreed and came forward with two names and two candidates, such as Mrs Biljana Ratković Krajina and Goran Pekovic. Indeed, all the members of the Committee have used their own to ask them certain questions from their biography, what they have done until then, whether in one way or another and how they see their engagement in REM, if they have been chosen. I can tell you, both of these candidates are very relevant and we all agreed that the tide will have a very difficult job to define for one of these two members. I am very sorry that in these two days we did not talk about the quality of Biljana Ratković Krajina and Goran Pekovic together. We've heard the personal interpretations of the answers we've given these candidates, which, of course, isn't prohibited, but it wasn't exactly like that and the candidates weren't exactly answering how you had the chance to hear it. The two of them are more or less, I see on this tide, not very controversial though the impression is already greatly offended, that the MPs of the opposition have somehow already defined themselves in advance and that today's debates didn't have to be, because we see exactly who they're attacking, who of the candidates is bothering them, and apparently none of the ruling majority here in the discussions said they would vote for any of these MPs. As far as I'm aware, consultations in the ruling majority parliamentary groups will be only after the debate is over and we will agree if the deal can be made at all. Why do I say that? That's what I'll tell you when we get to these candidates whose goals are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. What we also considered on 9 September 2016, these are the candidates of the competent board of the AP Vojvodina Assembly proposed by Mr Siniša Isakov and Djordža Bozarevic. I want to point out that no one in the ruling majority really knows these candidates, not to the extent that they could be able to make the estimates that they've been given here in certain discussions and that we can immediately say that someone's right or wrong. There was a problem with why we voted at the tide, in the last term, so we didn't choose any candidates. I'm really surprised after a great political experience. How one can order one to define or vote. It would be as if we were forced by MPs to vote only for or only against when it comes to the proposals of some laws, not having the right to be abstention or not having the right not to vote at all. So the right of MPs in the last term, in this and as long as there is democracy in this form of parliamentary, as there exists in most countries of the world, to define themselves by their conscience. That's how it's gonna be this time. The questions asked to Mr Sinisha Isakova and Djorđa Bozarevic were of different nature. I only had one question, because the MPs simply attacked one of the candidates. I don't know them, I don't know any. I saw them for the first time then, so I had to ask multiple times what their name was so I could run a session. So, all the questions were directed towards, if I'm not mistaken, you correct me, to Gjorge Bokarevic. As if someone had already defined himself as Mr. Sinisha Isaac, so did this session. Then after Djordja Vosarevic was asked some personal matters, private matters, if she knows, if there are no secrets, Goran Karadzic, so whether she knows this or that, I declared myself a person who knows Goran Karadzic. New Now is a very small town and we all know each other and know someone doesn't mean anything. But that's why I called for an answer to my question, Mr. Sinisha Isaac, whether he may know someone in politics and outside politics etc., and we came to the fact and to read his biography carefully, that he was both highly politically profiled and defined. Why isn't he disqualifying him? I'm not an MP for a politician who thinks we're professionally disqualifying someone by being brave and being defined as being in a political party. Nor is it something commendable when someone tells you – I am not for anyone, I am not in politics. Politics is everything, not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the world. Of course, Mr. Bokarevic, no, Mr. Isaac said – well, yes, well, I worked in the province government of Bojan Pajtic, I was an assistant, etc. So we got that answer to the question that he's also a politically defined person and that when we ask one, we have to ask everyone if they're politically defined, who they know, who they've been hanging out with, and what they've been doing in their biography, and what years. So, from the position of government, I think that candidate could have had a lot of impact on the media image, if we take the criteria we had in these two days, that politicians can influence everything. I think that he could, as someone in the government of the AP Vojvodina, have a significant influence that the media picture in Serbia simply be like a fairy tale and that we have no realism, that we have no cheers, for example for Boris Tadic at the time, that we do not have a "Blica" in a 12-page campaign together with Boris's character and work, not to celebrate the DS but to admire the opposition. So that was possible. I'm saying, I'm talking about the candidate because he worked in the government of the government of Vojvodina. I'm very careful how I speak. I'll keep going back to the candidates more or less skillfully, like you did or you didn't work at all. So there are people who were in various governments once and clearly politically defined and at any moment. I also have that list of candidates, and we've had our respect again -- so you didn't want to vote, so you didn't want to vote. Well, we didn't want to vote in last term for any candidate, we didn't think they were good. This refers to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina which proposed, plus what was at the last session when we all knew we were going to the elections and now we have to vote quickly for someone, and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has been disbanded and to verify what is now someone who is in a distant minority there, politically, wanted to serve us. That's not what we're gonna do. The third group, Milan Antonijevic, Snezana Stojanović Plassic, are the objectives and achievement of freedom of expression and protection of children and I have proposed to Mr Milan Antonijevic and Snezana Stojanović Plassic, who is also a politically profiled person, a member of several called G17+, State Secretary at the Ministry of Information, no one mentioned it here, and that was up until recently. We just remember what's going on today. Could Mrs Plassic have influenced the media picture if it was already a profession and could be for or against reality. At least to hear her statement as a representative of the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia, I strongly condemn these realities that she has. I sincerely hope that the people we choose these days will complete the work of REM and will do with the power of their influence what REM should do. Whether it's an influence to be less realistic about, to have more cultural content, to be more or less in the information content, I'm going to put one limit there, because I don't know how much they can influence all of this that we've heard in these two days. But what I'm about to say is, I'm going to say it for the public. When he actually started broadcasting in our country. I know everyone loves to talk, the period from 2014-2016, to mention Alexander Vukic, he's the one who came up with the reality. I'm sure he didn't. It was 2006 and realistic and "Great Brother" first started broadcasting on TV B92, the first reality in Serbia, 2006. So, the president of the state at the time was Boris Tadic and DS. The prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica, the DSS. According to your discussions, the prime minister was supposed to participate in whether it would be more or less. You said it was stupiding people and doing it with the intent of executive power. So, Vojislav Kostunica wanted to fool us together in the coalition with Boris Tadic and that Dragan Kojadinovic was a culture minister. He beat some pianist, lucky for him. Everyone was thrilled, not because we're looking at reality, but here, the pianist beat it, as if it were something commendable that a man in culture participated in such a content. That wasn't enough. In 2007, we are going to the VIP "Great Brother". It means it's been seen by a huge number of people who usually watch B92. There was a spectrum of influential media people – Goga Sekulić, Dragan Marinkovic Maca, Peđa D. Boj, who took off in 2007. Well, where were you all who criticized so much reality in 2015 and 2016? Olya Karlusha, Daniela Vranesh, what I could find by preparing this discussion. In 2007, they say -- the second season was interrupted because of the tragic death of a participant in the reality. And that wasn't enough. This tells you, there is Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in deep opposition, without any influence on the media, simply begging God to appear in the most negative content, but still to appear, which was not to tell you by 2012, disaster. It's no better now. In 2008, the U.S. The VIP, the VIP, means there is no end during the rule of the Democratic Party and its coalition partners in the cultural content of the great that should enlarge our citizens simply and turn them to read more, to go to the theatre, to listen to classical music, so they brought Eru Ojdanic, Milic Vukasinovic, Zorica Markovic and beat a certain lady whose nickname is Mimi. So much for the influence on the media of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time. Then, 2009 finale VIP All Stars. So in 2009, Boris Tadic, who we talked about as editor of everything and everything, has now been taken over by the government by the entire Democratic Party with slightly smaller coalition partners and improved the media image, so they brought in Mira Škorić, Jelen Karlus, Filip Capisodo, who killed later singer Ksenija Pajcin. That's what we all saw during the Democratic Party's power, the influence of the Prime Minister, the president of the state, and at that time the defence minister became your current president. So, according to your discussions, not the president of Serbia, the president of your party was the defence minister. I know, at Zdravko Cholic's concert, he raised me culturally, from a great culture in the media, waved his hand to get up to sit down. It's not a problem. I have a great memory. Now, that's the impression of the week of this discussion, that the MPs who have read here the lesson of the ruling majority how to edit the media, how we've brought into the media the ham, how we have some criminal intention to fool our people, so we're serving them a lot of reality, and there's not enough information shows, as we influence the media. I just wanted to give you a comparison of what it looked like in the years you ate, which you're criticizing today, and where the prime ministers were respected members of your parties. I just want to tell you how pointless this criticism is, because I'm sure they didn't affect the VIP All Stars or the introduction of Big Brother on B92 in 2008, so let's look at the same eyes, neither Alexander Vukic, nor the culture minister and the past, and this won't affect how our television and our media scene will be edited, and REM has existed since 2003. Who were REM members from 2003 to today's election? How come Gordana Susha didn't raise her voice to end these realitys? Since no one has mentioned a member of REM since 2003 today, these must have been large, prominent figures, selected by earlier parliaments, where the SNS did not exist, then why did they do nothing? Then in 2014, it would be really much, much easier for these current REM members to implement the law and to have a media scene to measure, to be honest with themselves, a media scene to measure a small number of Serbian citizens, and I don't mean political definitions. If it's our tendency to impose our taste, then fine, but we don't have double arches. I call upon my colleagues, when the time comes to vote, to vote on our own personal definition and reason, not to put up with any pressure to have to do anything, no one here has to, so if anyone doesn't want to vote for one of these six candidates, he doesn't have to. As far as the procedure is concerned, the procedure in this meeting is perfectly implemented. That's what I want my other colleagues to do, just by the letter of the law and to carry out the procedure properly. Then we won't have a year-long gap in the selection of REM members or any other body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2936	Thank you. Mr. Vukadinović, on what grounds do you want the word? (Jorge Vukadinović, from the place: Replica. ) (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica. The Democratic Party has been mentioned ten times. Mr. Kiriq, let me run the session. A colleague, Vukadinović, appeared before you. I want to know on what basis. (Jorge Vukadinović, from the place: Replica. ) On what basis do you think you have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2937	Because I'm a member of the Information Committee, who took part in this conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2938	For that you have no right to a replica. I don't know if you're testing my knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, he says nicely – if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name, here we even tolerate it, not to mention the name and last name, he has the right to reply. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, i.e. a political party to which MPs belong, the parliamentary group has the right to reply in the name of the parliamentary group. You don't meet any of the other conditions. (Jorje Vukadinović, from the post: I am a member of the Information Committee. ) The Information Committee shall have its authorised representative. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2939	I really didn't, with respect for the President of Parliament, expect the President of Parliament to talk about Paddy D. Boy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2940	Mr. Kiric, please, the chairman of the presidency. counterpart Maja Gojkovic, when she comes down to the parliamentary benches, cannot be limited by being the president of the National Assembly. She's completely equal to you, completely equal. If it wasn't in your time, today will be the day. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2941	I don't think there's any room for anxiety. I think that's what I'm showing you through an attempt to answer what we heard in 20 minutes and two minutes of replicas, which I hope you'll let me finish. No matter where he sits, Mrs Gojkovic is the president of this parliament and I really think it is necessary to keep that level in which we will not analyse all participants of all realities from 2006 to today. Where would this debate go if we went to that side, and especially who was when and where was at the concert whether Zdravko Cholic or some other estrogen stars? I don't think this assembly is the place for that kind of debate. Since I received information about this, you met with Mr. Sutanovac at that concert and you know well that he was then with his family and friends, since you were sitting in those places where they bought tickets, you met, they bought, and you moved, and that's what the manager of the mentioned Zdravko Colic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2942	Mr. Ciric, I must tell you that you are currently presenting information on MP Maja Gojkovic and Parliament Speaker, bringing facts from private life.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2943	I'll stop here. Since she spoke of the president of the DS in such a way, I'm talking about that she of course saw him at that concert, but I'm talking about the circumstances in which the two of them met, and that's exactly how they met, but under such circumstances. What's more important is that story about the impression of the week. I really find this performance of yours quite an impression of the week. You had the opportunity, as representatives of the opposition, to visit the same "Ustout of the Week" at Olje Bećkovic, which opened space for both the opposition and the government and there was a civilized political dialogue and the possibility of hearing different opinions in our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2944	You're bringing the end, colleague Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2945	I think it is necessary to talk about these people who have opened that space, since you have used that possibility yourself, and it is unacceptable for me to speak in such a way about people who have marked a significant time in Serbian journalism and a significant time in freedom of speech in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2946	Thank you. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2947	Thank you. I know you have to defend the president of your party. I know that. I know you got a text from him. The truth is, no one bought a ticket to that lodge, so everyone got tickets from Zdravko Cholic's management. You don't have to defend what you don't have to defend, and you didn't come with the family just, you came with 20 cobras and showed me and the parents of Zdravko Cholic this way - to get up. But it's not the subject of today's session. Let me answer it first, replica. "The impression of the week" nobody mentioned. Why are you... . (DSS MEETING AND DSS RINGING) ) Can you give me back my time, I can't talk because I'm distracted by MPs, because they don't have an elementary...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2948	We'll take care of the time they took from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2949	Thank you. It's nice to be nice, and it's even nicer with culture. So, "The Impression of the Week", as a show, as a form, no one mentioned in my speech. I don't know why you jump every time you use the syntagma impression of the week. I said it in another context, but if you really want to know, that show hasn't been lifted by any of us, so the direction of foreign management and ask why, how? Do not burden parliament with individual formats of journalists who are close to your political option, so again you are probably told to mention them every time. We talked about Big Brother format and reality for two days and I know it hurts the truth. During your regime, "The impression of the week" was introduced, I apologize to Big Brother. During your regime, and REM has existed since 2003. You didn't tell REM members from 2003 to 2016, you enjoyed those formats. With your silence, you've approved that our televisions, all after B92, begin broadcasting these contents. (Zoran Krasic, from town: Time. My time has not yet passed. In 2006, 2007, you have something against which I mention Pejo D. The colour that came down in the growth of democracy on our media, and then I'm going to complete the list. There are also Olja Karleuša, a certain Daniela Vranjš, Dragan Marinković Maca, Goga Sekulić and Marta Keller. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2950	My colleagues, I've seen your Rules of Procedure. Just a moment, since they're getting some colleagues. I understand you're angry about something. About 30 seconds later, when she spoke to a colleague of Maya, she was interrupted, disturbed, and asked for that time to be extended while she was distracted. About that time, there were 58 seconds on the monitor. I said you won't count on time, time counts on you from now on. If you want, technically, it's no problem for me at all, to take away the word, to ask her to get it back, to write to you on the screen for two minutes. I think we're more practical this way. (Bosko Obradovic from the place: It is okay, but make it possible for us. ) Likewise, counterpart Ciric spoke for 40 or 45 seconds over two minutes, as fellow MPs distracted him and I extended it. Don't transfer it. Here you go, colleague Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2951	And this was one of the evidence that we still have different arches, but now you've felt how the opposition MPs feel when they throw themselves out of these other benches. I agree it's not a good practice, but you're able to stop it with your vice presidents. You once again refer to constant arguments, and that's what it was in the past, the way the government acted. We can agree on something that some things weren't good. It was a good freedom of speech, and it was the right one to mention "The impression of the week" when you all had the opportunity to visit, and you especially. Not the arguments this was bad in 2006, and we made it worse and kept it all going, and we encouraged it in an even worse way, but we have excuses for what happened in 2006. In 2006 The DS was not in the government, and it doesn't matter who it was, but it's a key thing that I can't make arguments about what's going on in the media in Serbia right now, for this lack of freedom, an obvious lack of freedom for political diversity, especially in the media space, justifying what's been in some reality programmes since 2006. Why didn't you fix it? It's your job today, and it was five years ago when you took full responsibility for this society, and it will be in this term, if there is, so you talk about how it's going to be fixed, and not by constantly justifying yourself that it was once established, and you didn't do anything to make it better, but only worse and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2952	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2953	Thank you. I'm not a proponent of going back to the past at all, but you've simply started this topic in these days and a half, so I said I should say something, because I'm one of the citizens of this country who is a witness when the destruction of Serbia's media image began, and I'm going to disprove your thesis that someone in this government has decided to pollute the media scene, to fool people so that they can distract their attention from the hard life on some fun content. You had a chance in 2007 when those unfortunate people, who participated in reality, died, to change something about the media image. You say Kostunica's government, okay. In 2008, you promoted that picture and kept silent as the ruling majority because we got this VIP reality with people like Milić Vukasinović, some Mimi, and I don't know what they call these obscenities who had all the rights of this world to appear on B92. Then you could have reacted, realized there was an announcement of something you didn't like. And "The impression of the week," if you insist so much, I've been visiting once or twice, the question of a journalist was, as a woman who was democratically defined, a liberal understanding, because she was a candidate for mayor of Novi Sad, turned to me, there were three other colleagues, and she asked me – what would you do to run for mayor and what would you, as a woman, be involved in politics? Why don't you go home and scribble? Now, that was a question of someone we spend so much time on, wanting to show that the media scene at that time was much better than it was today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2954	Please bring the end. Thank you. There's no one left on the line, we're done with the replicas. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2955	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, here we have been listening for two days to the tyrado of those who have freed the media in Serbia from fire and long pipes, likely to cleanse them from some evil, and in fact they have conquered them and placed them under their strict control. During their 12-year rule, Serbia was wandering with media impediment, as gentlemen who are masters of hunting in murky did not want to legally regulate the area. They started privatization, so they cut it off, all with the goal of keeping the media in suspense, in constant fear, of absolutely controlling them. By going into opposition, they continued to put even more pressure on the media, threaten editors and journalists, create an atmosphere of lynches, ban certain journalists from attending their press conferences, publicly tear apart copies of newspapers that wrote about their criminal affairs, and went even to that point that this same man who was tearing up the newspaper a few days ago all journalists and readers of a daily newspaper, I quote, called "the idiots". When I talk about threats and pressures, I can't help but look back at the haughtiness of the unscrupulous bankruptcy king and his exhibitionism, numerous insults and threats to media houses and journalists and now, we two days of such people hear stories about freedom of the media. I'm aware of the people I'm talking about, and we can't expect anything more civilized and cultural, but what particularly offends is the behavior of so-called. Professional organisations, primarily NUNS and the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina, who increasingly become political parties and political allies of the former regime, with one single purpose of existence -- are insulting the republican government and prime ministers with constant attacks. They are not prepared for the NUNS and the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina to protect none of their colleagues who are not under their control, who are the victim of the persecution and threats of their political allies, but are therefore always ready to attack and muddle Alexander Vukic, to attack and mud the government of the Republic of Serbia, to attack and mud their country. We heard the word "censorship" and the word necessarily related to the parties in power several times yesterday and today during the debate. What kind of censorship the media is talking about today, when we're witnessing that some media without a shred of conscience and without responsibility are putting a bunch of lies at the expense of the prime minister, his family, and what's most embarrassing, at the expense of his children, with the maximum logistics support of the former regime's party. What kind of media darkness, censorship and pressure on the media by the government are we talking about when a little or little threat of death to the prime minister or one of the ministers in the media? What's most interesting is that these disgusting lies are not being responded by any professional associations, and not even, call, the Guardian of Citizens. None of them. There are numerous legal guarantees in Serbia for freedom of expression and freedom of the media. They are, above all, guaranteed by the Constitution, and then specified by the law. Serbia has also ratified the most important international acts that guarantee freedom of opinion and freedom of the press. That is why the media freedom unit and freedom of the press cannot be a fact of how much one medium has lied and falsely at the expense of the prime minister and the republican government, only because individual opposition politicians hope to reduce the inaccessible political advantage of Aleksandar Vukic. They must understand from the opposition that the more muddy and the more disgusting lies they bring to his expense, that's the support that citizens give him the bigger. It's not Alexander Vukic's fault for the position their parties are in. They're guilty because the citizens have come over their heads with lies and empty promises. We only remember what this year's pre-election campaign on Vojvodina's Radio-Television, which was adopted by the former province's regime in its party media – strictly guided topics and issues that suggested most directly the change in the constitutional and legal order of Serbia, was an open guide to the threat of national minorities in Vojvodina, which, of course, was to be blamed for the republican rule. Furthermore, we have an attempt to construct an affair, when the editor of the Vojvodina Radio Television, by order of the then province regime, punished the journalist in the most brutal way, for asking Alexander Vukic. And now they teach us a lesson about freedom of the media, media darkness and alleged censorship. As a government, unlike some previous ones, we have defined ourselves to respect legislation, it is our obligation to select new members of the Regulatory Body and enable them to carry out their duties in full capacity. We all agree that there have been certain work gaps, but it is our obligation to ensure conditions and influence that the Regulatory Body is doing its job as best as possible. Because of this, the Socialist Movement Group – People's Peasant Party – United Peasant Party will vote for the election of new members of the Regulatory Body. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2956	On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic from the place: The memorial. The man who burned the paper. No, I heard a colleague say he was tearing up newspapers and calling journalists jerks. (Zoran Zivkovic from the post: Cepala newspaper. So you think that's why you have the right to reply? (Zoran Zivkovic from town: That's right. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2957	Thank you very much. The replica has multiple layers. First, one correction. I didn't rip out the paper, I ripped out a copy of the newspaper that I paid for and I can do whatever I want with it. I can read it, if it makes sense to read what's written in it, I can tear it up, it can be left to wipe windows, it used to be that way, and there are some other purposes I don't want to talk about. Let's say, for making fires. But that's my business. It's my property, and it has no political connotation, except for people who are either not smart or mean, and I'm sure you're neither of them. The other thing is, in one tweet, I called readers and people jerks. That's not true. I just said that whoever reads and writes for some newspapers that are when translated, it translates into Serbian as a snitch... (Marko Blagojevic from the city: What language? In English, do you have any other questions? So, who's reading it? Who reads those lies? There the date is not true in that newspaper when it says up, let alone the panic that a coup is being made, that the prime minister has been resented both the taste and the tail, and black and white, it is not healthy to read. Whoever's reading this isn't healthy and hasn't passed my proposal to go through the review before running for office. So breaking up newspapers is one thing, and destroying your own property in the nominal value of 20 dinars, which is not worth anything, is my personal business. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic: from the place: What are you doing interviewing in the same place? Put it on paper, and I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2958	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2959	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 104 and 107 have been severely violated. Article 104 speaks of replicas, when someone has the right to exercise the right to replication. Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. Someone here has identified himself, and there's no such thing as a torn-up newspaper in the Rules of Procedure. My fellow farmer didn't just rip the paper, he banned two newspapers. One of them was called "Nacional", they had a large circulation. In a very sensitive time to carry out a personal dictatorship and arrest as many people as possible. My fellow farmer has hurt his dignity by temporarily banning the distribution of a foreign magazine and newspapers called "Day" so as not to know how people are buried alive, shooting at their heads, as 12,000 times closes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2960	Mr. Risticevic, please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2961	So I'm saying that he hurt his dignity by participating in a rough censorship when people were being threatened by rights and the public was completely excluded and, please, the chairman, there's an expression in the people who say, "They're going to tear it up like a monkey newspaper." I hope someone on the other side...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2962	I can't let you talk anymore, Mr. Risticevic. Right on the line, Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2963	I'm glad Mr. Zivkovic recognized himself in all this. It is his right to be an exhibitionist, his right to treat his property as he wishes, but I find it offensive to call both readers and journalists and media names you have called them. I find it offensive to publicly rip the papers because they wrote, not about the Prime Minister, not about the coup, but about your criminal affairs. That's why the paper was torn up. That's why you're mad at the media. That's why you're angry with all of Serbia, and Serbia is angry with you, and that's why you're close to a political end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2964	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2965	If you listened carefully to the last sentence of something that could be called speech or shouting, it was a threat to death. He said, "The end is near." (Bojan Bagica, from the city: Political Place. I haven't heard that politically. You're rooting for my political end a long time ago, and if you're alive and well, I can see you can cheer well and I love the quasi lefties so they can scream hard. That's not the point. The bottom line is that there are today daily papers in this country, and there are some TV stations with masks that run a morning program that insults deep everything that is Serbian, everything that is decent, everything that is European, everything that has to do with the 21st century, and when you have something like that, of course, you have to show your political attitude, which is to tear up your copy of the newspaper that you paid neatly. That's one way. The other way is not to make statements about that professional mess, about that piece of paper. I've never made a statement for any of those newspapers that are being put into that group, and it's not a newspaper, it's being bought on kiosks, but the papers aren't. Finally, what will happen to your prime minister, who loves him, who doesn't love him, it's a completely irrelevant thing. We are working here to make the truth come to the citizens of Serbia, and everyone will carry their cross and their destiny and their place in history. That's not the question we're deciding on. That will be decided by some people in 10 or 15 years. The answer to the Replicator – it is true that there are some proverbs, one of them is – dogs bark the caravans pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2966	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2967	The Honorable chairman, a roughly injured member of the 107th Parliament's dignity first because a fellow MP is first insulted, is told that something that looks like a speech, but come on, rather than the media. We don't have the right to do that. Some media may not like me, you, anyone, but you can insult the media, and with what he's saying today for a daily newspaper, he's talked about others before, so he didn't give them a statement, he gave them an interview. That's what this is about. It's about a man who's absolutely hypocritical in this whole case and ultimately insults the media, which is scandalous, and he'd have to react here to that NUNS and everyone who puts him in protective custody most often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2968	Mr. Djukanovic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure for letting Mr. Zivkovic speak because, in his speech, he seems to have said something that sounded about like this – everyone wears their cross and he carries ours. So I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2969	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia and all Serbs around the world, because for you it is very important what content you follow through satellites from your home country, REM is certainly neither an independent nor an independent organisation, so I will not talk about individual proposals, nor will Dveri support them, but I would like something concrete about REM. Our experience from 2012 and 2014 taught us, so in 2016 we controlled ourselves whether our program was broadcast evenly against other parties and all our performances ended in REM by refusing or even giving themselves the right to one answer after almost three months. The most dramatic example of breaking the law was on Pink, broadcasting a fake video about the Dwarves. "Pink" broadcast a video in which Dvori allegedly presented Serbia without KIM. Why was it right to discredit Dweri in the wake of an election campaign? Because since 1999, we have been constantly asking that KIM be preserved within Serbia and that the state does not give up 15% of its territory and its treasure below. Because all the time we are asking for this question from Brussels to return to the UN for a decision, and we are asking that all activities on EU integration be cut short, because the EU will then request that the defacto recognise Kosovo as an independent state, and I fear that this may have already been done, but hides from the citizens of Serbia, as well as all the details in the negotiations regarding chapters 23 and 24. So, REM was of course silent on this harsh violation of our rights. The silent and SNS, which has itself given the initiative to form a polling committee that will establish all details of the attempted electoral theft, which was eventually initiated by the Dvori, but at the vote, the SNS denied its proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2970	Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2971	... agenda. I'm not on the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2972	You are not on the subject because all Serbian citizens could see that the SNS voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2973	So we go back to REM and Pink. "Pink" instead of being punished, is rewarded. He's still broadcasting his scrabble reality program, and they're affirming stars everywhere in our public space, and even in this high house, and no one's responding to the use of children and women who have suffered violence. "Pink" draws them into emissions, exploits their ignorance and emotion and brutally endangers their security. We in the Dwarves really won't respond to whether you're going to agree whether the former or current regime is to blame for reality, but I think we all agree that we don't need reality and I'd say that today is actually a historic day for this resuscitation that we have an unofficial consensus on the fact that we don't need reality. Therefore, I call on everyone who can influence, which is, of course, REM above all, I hope that they listen carefully to all of this, to do what is necessary to realise the programme or to abolish or tax, so that this money is directed to broadcasters who can, know and want to make a programme for children, family programme, a cultural and educational programme that is in line with our democratic and traditional values. So now it's a move on you, gentlemen of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2974	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Milicevic, and let the MP Bosko Obradovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2975	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that, given the importance and importance of the area concerned by REM and the importance of the work carried out by the Council and which will be carried out in the next period of time, we understand the need for fellow Members of Parliament to look at today's debate in a broader context, they are talking about the agenda point, and that is, of course, the legitimate right of every Parliament club. On the other hand, what I particularly want to point out is that freedom of expression, freedom of the media and freedom of speech are fundamentally postulated by a democratic society. The media in Serbia are free, independent, objective and professional and of course we have no intention of dealing with the editorial policy of individual media. Today it was all about everything, even the past. I'll just say one sentence - you don't live in the past, you learn lessons from the past and you affirm what's good if there's something good. There was also talk of a legislative proposal that we adopted in 2011 – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Act, which was then proposed by the Resolute Ministry, a restrictive law, a law that represented certain pressure on the media. We, as a Parliament club, didn't back this bill at the time, because we didn't want, when it comes to this subject, that as a party and as a Parliament club we were going back in time, we were going back a few steps. As regards the election of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the list of candidates submitted by authorised representatives of the association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children, then the Association of Electronic Media and the Association of Journalists, as well as the committee responsible for the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, so the mandate of previous members of the Council has expired our obligation, i.e. The obligation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to select new members so that the Council, REM, can work fully and fully. Accordingly, of course, the necessary procedures have been carried out, first a public call for candidates to be called, then a discussion within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Culture and Information, then a defined proposal, and today we have a debate in the tide and in the voting day we will declare the proposed candidates. What is very important to us is, above all, the fact that procedures are fully respected, and above all from a public invitation to report candidates, talks made within the board and the definition of the proposal addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing that's very important to us is that the candidates we're going to declare on Voting Day meet all the legal requirements. With their choice, as I have already said, it is three members of the Council that we will choose, or six candidates between which we will define ourselves as three members, that their election will enable the Council to work in full composition and full capacity. That's why it's very important, we agree completely, that this process is completed as soon as possible. What we, as a Parliament club, expect from the new members of the Council that we choose, is to carry out a responsible and quality job for which they assume responsibility, in accordance with, I would say, the highest and professional and professional but of course also moral standards. What we expect from the Council, what we expect from REM in the next period of time, is primarily to work to improve the quality and diversity of services in the field of electronic media, to protect public interests in the field of electronic media, but also to protect the interests of users. We expect the Council, in accordance with current rules, to define clear and precise rules, to perform a control role and to impose sanctions when necessary. Of course, the election of REM members and the election of members of the Council does not end, I would say, the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It remains a control role, to monitor the work of the Council, to monitor the work of REM, to monitor the work of the newly elected members, and to discuss this within the Committee on Culture and Information, when the annual report on the work of the Council is discussed. When we talk about REM's work, it's not today's topic, but I'll just say in one sentence, it can always do better and always more. We expect it to react much faster in concrete situations and to monitor and apply best European and world examples of good practice in this area of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2976	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, and let the MP Nedo Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have first and foremost the obligation to say that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, was absolutely right when she said that Aleksandar Vukic was not personally responsible for introducing a reality show in Serbia. He has another kind of responsibility, which is that he perfected reality shows in Serbia on a higher level. What exactly is the problem with this whole REM debate today? What is really true is that some previous regimes, and they bear full responsibility, have introduced these nakaradic television programs, with the overly silent support of REM, and that practically no one has stopped against such a serious immorality on our most watched television content. But it's not like it's nobody. For example, the 2007 "Dover of Serbian" magazine, following the broadcast of the first series "Big Brother", published a special issue of the magazine "Great Brother or Technological Totalitarianism", which, based on the experiences of world experts, showed what kind of moral decline and media prostitution is involved. So we have absolute moral right, because for ten years we've been talking in continuity against this media evil and vice. What's the big deal? We have indeed agreed here today that this is something that should not be in prime terms on our most watched television, but the fact is that the SNS has been in power for the last four years and that it has had the opportunity to influence that these contents are no longer part of our television programs. Because, don't forget, these private televisions are using the public welfare of the Serbian state, which is called ether, and they can't do what they want for their commercial purposes. The state has absolutely the right to stop them from spreading immorality, media prostitution, promoting violence, pornography and everything else that roses and violates public morality. So you didn't do it. I even think that you have in a certain way fed the continuation of such content on our media. I think I may have the most impressive anecdote that speaks of that role of yours. In fact, when Aleksandar Vukic was on a TV show called Happy, he was asked whether...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2978	I'm sorry, colleague Obradovic, I don't know if Alexander Wolfich is on this list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2979	I don't know why you're interrupting me. Shouldn't the name Alexander Wolfiche be mentioned in this assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2980	We are, of course, but within the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2981	This is a very important anecdote to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2982	All right, keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2983	It's a very short anecdote, but it's very content and impressive. So, when he was directed by this television show, he said the next schedule would take place: he's going to do the show "The Couples", and the commercials are going, and then he's going to host Alexander Vukic, and then he's going to re-realize the show "The Couples", he said the historical sentence - "No, but "The Couples", me, and "The Couples". That is, therefore, the media policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and the obvious evidence that you support the reality show and that you are your political reality show, those extraordinary press conferences, the state coups, all the propaganda that you spend on all these TVs, you are actually fitting perfectly between the two episodes of the reality "The Couples". So you're part of that television program. They're going to "The Couples" and SNS propaganda, and "The Couples". So you simply want to pump your propaganda message into that audience, numbed by such immoral and meaningless content, and thus actually realize the influence that is politically important to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2984	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2985	This is something amazing now. We just heard from this MP group, the lady who criticized that we're hiding something and that we don't want to tell the people that something's signed somewhere, we don't appear in the media, and now we hear that Mr. Vukic appears in the media too much. Make a deal now, what do you really blame us for? I can even personally say that those commissions at the time of the Moral Alliance, which served as censors in the media, are somewhat even having some regularity, for the simple reason that he couldn't have any kind of immorality to appear. But now you're telling us if you want us to introduce the principle that was in the Union of Communists here and then the state is conducting what might appear on private television. Let us know if you're up for it. Then tell people that you're back in self-government socialism and that the state is conducting everywhere. People, understand, it's private property. The media owner wants to make money, I guess that makes some sense. If you're going to tell us now that we can tell the owner what he's going to play, then that's not normal. But then say that you are not at all supporters of the market principle, but that you want self-government socialism and it's not a problem, run for election. I think that's wrong. Why? If we were to do that, because these are the big distribution houses that sell licenses, someone would sue this country, someone would go to international court, they would do us terrible damage, and that would have to be paid by the citizens of Serbia. Understand, today is the era of capitalism, whether someone likes it or not, but you just have to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2986	The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2987	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have no problem openly saying that I am against this era of capitalism that you are talking about, the era of profit, the era of consumer civilization, the era of neocolonialism, in which all sovereign nations and states should actually be, in practice, abuses of foreign multinational companies. Yeah, I'm against it. I am not at all interested in such an initial accumulation of the capital of the rich countries of the world who want to get rich at the expense of our citizens' poverty. Yes, I am for public intervention in the media. Yes, I am that the state can intervene where it actually gave someone the opportunity to do business. So, public well-being, state ether, someone rented it, used it, getting a national frequency. Of course the state can always take away that national frequency. Of course he can shut down his program. Of course he can tell him – he can do the show, but after midnight. Be commercial after midnight. Or, you can do the show programs, but you'll be extra taxed, so take that money and be commercial and do whatever you want, but at least we'll charge you big, so we'll put it back into the budget, and we'll do it with the same TVs domestically to offer them competitions where we'll finance some other content that we as a state want to promote -- healthy lifestyles, family values, any other values that should actually be in those programs, cultural and historical programs, that I can't be ashamed when I sit down at night to watch TV with kids and that I don't have anything to watch with kids on that TV. So the state has an interest in having real values come to the right place in this society and the state should intervene when someone breaks the right values and promotes false values. I don't have a problem with any privates to intervene with him where he thinks he can change and insult the public morals of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2988	Time. Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2989	I'm glad that you have now admitted that you would return self-government to socialism. Otherwise, if you're such an opponent of globalism, otherwise I am, but don't use Google Adsense since you used it in your campaign for an Internet campaign in the election. Don't use the Internet, because you're a big opponent of it. Don't buy jeans, since it's a global trend, don't use many of the things that globalism gives you. Now, just go from door to door, wear paper, wear flyers, whatever, but don't use what globalisation gave you, because you're such a big opponent of all that. I'm personally, really opposed to this consumer society, but I just have to look at the era we live in. If that's how you want to ruin the country, that these powerful companies are suing us for selling the license here, and that this way the citizens of Serbia pay abnormal damage to someone, because before every international arbitration they'll get, then it's an honor to let the citizens hear that you want to just rob them. I don't think that's normal. After all, I agree that we can talk about the requirement, let's say, to limit how many hours you can let go real, I'm a complete supporter of it. But, you know, to ban a full broadcast, so it's not normal, so it's nowhere to be found. I agree there's a code for what you can play today. You can't do pornographic content, you can't do a lot of things that offends public morality. Why REM didn't do it, it's already problematic. But you're asking us exactly what you're criticizing us for, you're asking us as the government to intervene what the televisions are going to play, and if we did, then you'd jump and say, "Here, dictatorship, they're editing the program." Well, it's a hypocrisy that doesn't exist anywhere once again, please, if you're really such a big opponent of globalism, don't use the Internet, don't use Facebook, don't use Twitter, just, just go away and just go back to the 19th century, it's no problem at all, live that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2990	Okay, let's stop this communication because it doesn't make any sense anymore. I want to ask you something, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, tell your colleagues who are leaving the room to get out of the card system. Here, that's enough. Not to bid. There's a turn like this. You see, I can speak without a card, a miracle of technique. So, it's for everyone, get your cards out of the system. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic and we have more Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2991	I thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, as the head of the SPS parliamentary group pointed out as the position of our parliamentary group, it is no doubt that today we had an exhaustive discussion in which a single position was raised, and this unique attitude implies that we do not have a conflicting opinion on what should not be present in the media. Unfortunately, what I need was a populism, especially by the opposition, which seems to me to be a kind of political marketing. What we should all ask ourselves when we are discussing this point of the agenda is how to get what is the goal of every democratic society, which is freedom, independence and professionalism, the excessive responsibility of the media. As far as independence and freedom of the media are concerned, it is doubtless that there are conflicting opinions between the authorities and the opposition. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as part of the government, as part of the responsible government, wants to affirm both independence and freedom of the media in every respect. Today, however, no one has touched one issue that is extremely significant, and this is a question as far as freedom of the media, on the one hand, without jeopardising some values that are relevant to every society and every state, primarily the spiritual formation of the Serbian people, above all the culture and tradition of the Serbian people, all that is made up of will be the Serbian people. If we look at this freedom of the media indefinitely, we will come into a situation where all these immeasurably valuable, immeasurably significant values of the Serbian people are trampled, destroyed and even eliminated. That is why the question arises – where is the responsibility of those who need to control the media? Is this responsibility of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body well-organized, primarily systemically designed? No doubt not. That is why it is the task of this House, which is why our MPs in the Republic Assembly, no matter what political orientation we are, are tasked with, to try to regulate the question of members' responsibilities and REM itself as an institution precisely through the laws. Why? We've been taking the whole day in the direction, REM is an independent body, an independent institution. It is and it should be, but what to do unless this same REM doesn't react and sanction the media when it's mandatory to do so. How do you ask the question of REM's responsibility if you know how many times the story of reality show, starlets, scandalous shows, flattering scenes, pornography, etc., which, unfortunately since 2000, has come to the media here as a stampede, how do you ask the question of REM's responsibility? Obviously, as far as systemic solutions are concerned, we have not set these system solutions at the level necessary for REM to also be held accountable as necessary, in order to protect the media and to protect culture and all that is necessary for one country, one nation, and all the citizens of that state? As long as it doesn't form systemically, and it doesn't work out, we'll have an undeniable problem. In the end, what I want to point out are two facts. First, the fact is that the media is having a problem because they experience the problem in a completely democratic and legitimate way through critical attitudes. On that yesterday, at a session on this agenda point, he briefly commented on fellow Djukanovic and I will support that part of his discussion. What's this about? One of the media, and by my deep conviction of authentic sports media, which are the SOS channel, suffers a kind of discrimination that is absolutely unacceptable. Absolutely inadmissible for the reason it is the only remaining sports channel that affirms undeniable values from the field of sport. Superstitious school sport that is not on another sports channel is not present, where sports that are completely marginalized compared to so-called. big sports and commercial sports far more afirmic, coming into a situation where the maltenes are scrutinized to a cable operator, which is SBB. Whether a critical word, a democratic approach that needs to be present on the media scene, should be allowed to be a reason for one conditionally said media to be lurking, in such a way. As a man who comes from sports, I am convinced that this is inadmissible, and I am confident that I share such an opinion with all the MPs in this house. I therefore appeal, not only to the Resort Ministry, for this reason I appeal to all entities present and active on the media stage to resist one of these acts, one of this kind of behavior sharply. If that doesn't happen, we're in a situation where we're all going to be responsible together because the media is shutting down and the media that in no way deserves to be shut down. Secondly, the fact that I wanted to point out at the very end of this presentation is something that makes the SPS parliamentary group very pleased about today's work, because from all these discussions that have arisen one single and correct conclusion that no one can doubt, which is that the committee's work, the resolution board, was completely legitimate. That in a completely legitimate procedure, there was a democratic way of running candidates on the list to be spoken of during the vote, without any prejudge. This democratic approach cannot be challenged and therefore the ruling majority is absolutely right when it says we have the opportunity to choose the best. Whether these are best on this list or not will show their work, it will show their performance in the future period, this will show the responsibility of REM to all the circumstances and situations that they have talked about today, and a large number of MPs, and I repeat to us that we are reviewing this responsibility, but not only through this home, but by continuing to pass even better and quality laws in which REM will have a special place, with a special degree of responsibility. Once again, the SPS parliamentary group supports the work of the resolution board and supports the presentation of our distinguished colleague and friend Snezana Paunovic, who put forward the motion of the Committee of Resorship at yesterday's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2992	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that the chairman of this session has made it possible for MPs to have a slightly wider approach to this topic. I think this subject deserves it. I will try to speak on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, of course, referring to what my esteemed colleague Vladimir Djukanovic said, saying a few sentences on the thoughts of two key topics that have been dragged through the presentations of the MPs, and it is related to the election of members of the REM Council. First, I would like to refer to the untruth that was brought yesterday and today at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily at the expense of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who was brought forth by individual MPs, which is that the Brussels Agreements are allegedly secret, that no one knows what was signed and that we have allegedly given up our property in Kosovo and Metohija, primarily Telekom's assets and that we have given up the combination of "Trepce". For the work of the public, not because of the people's MPs who talked about it, they are simply not worth convincing, they are probably trying to deceive citizens of Serbia, but because of these citizens of Serbia I want to say that both the first Brussels Agreement of 2013 and the second Brussels Agreement of 2015, are not secret documents, everyone can come to them because they were published among other things on the website of the Office for Kosovo and the Methodology of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the lack of time, of course, I can't read all the points of the first or second Brussels Agreement. I just want to say that in the first Brussels Agreement of April 2013 of 15 points, six points, they refer to the association, or the community of Serb municipalities. The first point is -- there will be a community of municipalities in which Serbs make up the majority population in Kosovo, membership will be open to each other on condition that members agree on it. What you're throwing at Mr. Krasic, you said this was a secret I'm reading to you now something that's a public document. A long point – This community will be established on the basis of statutes. Its disbandment can only be made on the basis of the decision of the municipalities of the participants. Legal guarantees will provide applicable law and constitutional law, including the rule of the two-thirds majority. The community of municipalities will have full control over areas of economic development, education, health, urbanism and rural development. Fifth point - The Community will also exercise other additional powers which may be delegated by the central government. The sixth point – The Community of municipalities will play a representative role towards central authorities and will be presented in a advisory council. In order to meet this decision, the monitoring function is envisaged. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: If you don't mind interrupting it, we will. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2994	Mr. Martinovic, I'll make it up to you. Please, I agree fully with you that it is important for the work of the public above all and for the citizens of Serbia to get an answer to the questions raised during today's debate, but I ask you now to return to what is exactly the agenda, the first item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2995	I think that all of this, Mr. Milicevic, I think I appreciate your observation, but this is the agenda, because, I said, here, these geniuses from DS are laughing, and they're all funny, so I said that you, as chairman, have made one broader concept of debate possible, and you, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and Mr. Veroljub Arsic, so let me just say a few more sentences on this topic that is extremely interesting to the citizens of Serbia, and in certain electronic media, did not get adequate space in the right way, at least as we see it from the SNS parliamentary group. The 9th point stands -- there will be a regional police commander in four northern municipalities where Serbs make up the majority population, North Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok and Leposavic, the commander of the region will be a Kosovo Serb, and then, the Kosovo police assembly in the north will paint the ethnic composition of the four municipalities. There will be another regional police commander for the municipalities of South Mitrovica, Serbia and Vucitrn. At the 13th point of the First Brussels Agreement, it is said only – the two sides will step up their talks on energy and telecommunications and end them by June 15th. So, not a single word about Alexander Wolfic being...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2996	I'm asking you to get back to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2997	... and the Serbian government, that they handed over "Telecoma" and "Trepce" assets to Albanians at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u2998	As for the Second Brussels Agreement of 2015, it is fully, therefore the complete Second Brussels Agreement is dedicated to the community of Serb municipalities. The Second Brussels Agreement has a total of 22 points and it can be found on the KIM Office's website by those who do not believe and who spread lies about the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking you now just to come back. You've had plenty of time to announce what...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3000	One of the topics, Mr. Milicevic, was that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are conducting censorship in Serbia, that there is no...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3001	It certainly has to do with the media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3002	... Enough media freedoms and that political parties that once led Serbia to Saturday and destruction today are being blocked by the media and that they cannot reach Serbia's citizens. As far as it's true, here's what I'm going to try to answer with a number language. In the period from 27 April 2014, when the first government of Aleksandar Vukic was formed, by 2016, it registered 6,732 negative media contributions to Alexander Vukic, members of his family, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and SNS officials. When it comes to Andrej Vukic, a born brother of the Prime Minister, who is not a SNS official at all, in this period, so from 27 April 2014 to 2016, Andrej Vukic was a theme of texts and headlines 730 times. So, 730 times, the Prime Minister's brother was born on the front page and in daily newspapers in Serbia, the tabloids, the monthbooks, etc. Only for one reason - because Alexander Vukic's brother was born. A few days ago, false promoters of democracy and freedom of expression cried over the sad fate of another allegedly oppressed journalist of the cartoonist "Politika", Mr. Petricic. The Prime Minister himself said that there was no need for Mr. Petricic to leave "Politic" and that the cartoons that Petricic drew on Alexander Vukic absolutely did not bother him, and there are exact data about it. From 2009 to 2012, therefore, for a full three years, while Boris Tadic was president of the Republic, he published 174 cartoons in "Politica", so 174 cartoons, and of that 174 cartoons, Boris Tadic was shown only 18 times in one once negative, once neutral context. Now, this same Mr. Petricic, in the period 2014 to 2016, drew in "Politica", so in "Politica", which reportedly is a regimeal medium, the media of Alexander Vukic, published 117 cartoons, with Aleksandar Vukic in an extremely negative context drawn in as many as 62 times, so more than half of all cartoons in "Politica" from 2014 to 2016 are cartoons relating to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Now, as far as the media in Serbia are free, as limited as Alexander Vukic is a great dictator and tyrant, the exact data, the headlines of daily newspapers, weekly newspapers, various monthly magazines, etc., the largest number of them are financed from abroad. Here, for example. I'll read you some examples of Alexander Vukic's media satanization. In "Kuru" he says, "Revenge of Slobi's Minister", "Vucic is terrorising the media again", and then "Today": Aleksandar Vukic drew as a prostitute who takes off a phantom and writes "The prosecution is silent and waiting for what Vucic will decide", and then "Kurir" again: "The government wants darkness", and then in "Politica" cartoon by Mr. Petricic, where Aleksandar Vukic is shown with a phantom on his head. Imagine the censorship in Serbia when a cartoon by the Prime Minister with a phantom on his head is published in "Politica". Well, then "Nin", also the media that hit Alexander Vukic, says, "Nobojsa Stefanovic is the main guy from Savala." Well, then, also in the "Today" list, here's a photo if you don't believe it. So, in the list "Today", I don't know what this picture, photography, cartoons, three crosses that are supposed to symbolize those three crosses on the Golgota, on one cross is Aleksandar Vukic, on the other Nikola Selaković, on the third Alexander Vulin and above writes a big title: "They won't go to heaven". If this is censorship, if this is freedom, then what is freedom? And, most of all, I haven't read anything in my life, how can I tell you, which has more to do with pathology than politics, to publish a obituary for a living man. It happened, too, in one of the tabloids. Here, if you don't believe it, the photograph of Alexander Vukic, who holds a candle in his hand and writes: “We inform the citizens of Serbia that on October 13th of this year in Brussels, our great child, our child, Alexander F, has slipped on the amendment, imagine, Vukic. “ Why F? Well, say these advocates of freedom, democracy, human rights, and so on, "We give sincere condolences to his fathers Angelka, Fahrija and Tommy." Tell me, is anywhere in one country, which is reportedly dictatorial, tyrannical, non-democratic, possible to publish such things? We can also refer to the comments of individual media freedom speakers in Serbia. The famous spokeswoman Slobodan Georgiev, who received only once on a 36,500-euro tranche, otherwise he is the editor of the famous Balkan Investigative Press Network BIRN, who teaches us freedom and democracy every day, responded to the cover of "Evening News", in September of this year. On the front page of "Evening News", September 8th, if I am not mistaken, was the text – Vukic asks the EU to condemn the constitution. And then Mr. Georgiev’s commentary on freedom of the media: “What if he does not condemn? What nonsense of young Dmitrović", I guess Aleksandar Vukic is young Ratko Dmitrovic, if I understand correctly, "and the EU, unlike Serbia, is an anti-fascist creation. “ What does that mean? That Serbia is a fascist form in 2016? And that's what a man who runs an organization called BIRN says. We can keep going. The same Free Georgiev, who receives, as you can see, no small money, sometimes 36, sometimes 50, sometimes 86,000 euros a month. So that's the monthly amount of money. Here, on his Twitter warrant, he publishes a photograph of jihadi john holding a knife in his hand before he's going to curse a hostage in Syria and says, "I'm going to crash in the day next," referring to Alexander Vukic, who is most responsible for the Savala case. Then you have one amazing thing. You remember the campaign led against Bratislava Gasic. Due to one of his reckless statements, which he had paid politically, by withdrawing from the government of the RS and no longer being a defence minister, and by circumstances, just those days, another prominent, representative, untouchable, one organisation that is not even allowed to be mentioned, because immediately we, Serbian advances, some villains and dictators, CINS, for ordinary citizens – the Research Reporting Centre, therefore, on these very days, on May 21st 2015, are a legitimate payment from a private foundation of $39.884. As the basis for payment is stated – inheritances, maintenance and other gifts and assistance. From that same BIRN foundation, he got $610,000, CINS $22,000, CRIK, and they're really martyrs, they get at least $13,000. All in all, suma suma sumarum, total $850,000. Why am I saying all this? I can only repeat the words of Alexander Vukic – people, continue to pump foreign exchanges in Serbia. These foreign exchange records are good for the Serbian economy, they just have to give you more money, they have to give more money to those from the DS, from "Yellow Duck", from "We Don't Drown Belgrade" and all their other coalition partners, because 4.5m euros are on the monthly level not enough to bring down Aleksandar Vukic. So, tell those mentors of yours, those speakers of yours, those your teachers of democracy, they have to open up a little bit more, they have to give you a little more money, it's a little bit of this. With 4.5m euros, you cannot raise 200 people at protests against Alexander Vukic. So you have to allocate more money to at least lower the popularity of Alexander Vukic and the SNS in the people and in the citizens of Serbia. So, you just keep going with this foreign exchange pump in Serbia. That's good, there'll be more money, I guess somebody'll pay some taxes. All these organizations are registered, they have an obligation to report their incomes. The state of Serbia will benefit from that and the benefits. As for the REM Council, I've already said, we've been honored here that this or that candidate of ours, that we will certainly vote for this or that, that our responsibility is why REM didn't function well in the past. That's just not true. So REM was founded in 2003. We have as a party, as a parliamentary group, great objections to REM's work, because I think Serbia is the only country in Europe, and perhaps even in a world where the party that is the government enjoys the support of more than half of the electoral body in Serbia is less present in both electronic and printed media than in the SNS. As far as electronic media is concerned, how we censor electronic media is best told by the following fact. You remember, Mr. Milicevic, when the president of the RS government addressed the Serbian people and citizens of Republika Srpska in a place called Donja Gradina. Donja Gradina is one place, one village on the banks of the Sava River across from the town of Jasenovac, where during World War II there was the most monstrous Ustasha concentration camp in which more than 700,000 people were killed, and the largest number right on the move of Donja Gradina. When Aleksandar Vukic, and not only Alexander Vukic, and Milorad Dodik and all others who spoke at the meeting in Donjo Gradina, addressed the citizens of Republika Srpska, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the end, to the citizens of the world to hear what happened to the Serbian people at the time of World War II at the time of Ante Pavelic and the Ustasha regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3003	I'd like to ask you to bring an end, since the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3004	Here I go. ... Here, this scary regime TV, which works for Alexander Vukic, has been passing on, you know, the semifinals of the basketball game Spain – USA. And Aleksandar Vukic, Mr. Milicevic, I will conclude, unfortunately, all his predecessors, the first RS Prime Minister to come to Lower Gradin and publicly tell the whole world that the world's greatest victims of World War II in the area of the former Yugoslavia are the Serb people. So much for the media and so much for censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3005	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The People's MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3006	Thank you. You have injured unrecordedly and unrecordedly in the session of the National Assembly of Article 27, and in connection with the article. 106th and 107th. The MP, if you've listened, for 22 minutes, has not chosen a word of the agenda for 18 minutes. The REM Council has nothing to do with the printed media. Eighteen minutes we've been listening to reports about what's going on in the press. The REM Council is talking about electronic media. The electronic media has nothing to do with the 18-minute appearance of the MP. You had an obligation to warn him that it was demeaning and mocking all of us, and also to you as chairman. It is not your personal choice that, for personal reasons, of any kind, you do not apply the Rules of Procedure and allow the MP to not talk about the agenda for 18 minutes. The first seven minutes of those 18, unfortunately, is the most terrible violation of this National Assembly's dignity, because you have allowed, by the way, authority and who knows by what recommendations seven minutes here talk about normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina, the texts and all the enormous difficulties that Serbian representatives in Belgrade have to face in real application of normalisation in Pristina. For Kosovo to be under a variety of seven minutes just to say, I don't have enough words to describe how embarrassing it is, except it's a shame that 18 minutes we've been listening to press texts at a session where we're talking about electronic media. If you don't know the difference, then the chairman must know the difference and stop insulting the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3007	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Would you like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Please be quiet. Please make a statement only, do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3008	You insult the Rules of Procedure again, because you are obliged to give me an explanation of why you let Kosovo be spoken of here in various and 18 minutes without agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3009	Of course I'll give you an explanation, Mrs. Comic, just please...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3010	I don't want to, there's no voting...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3011	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. The base of the call? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3012	Thank you, Your Honor. I am joining the really disdainful parliamentarians for a debate of twenty-one minutes in which there has been almost no discussion on the subject on the agenda today, the fact that such an important issue as Belgrade and Pristina's relations has been discussed by various parts of this agenda. But more than that even disgusted me, it certainly shows the best relationship of the ruling party to the media in Serbia. The fact that cartoons are counted here. The cartoons that go out in the daily papers, who on these cartoons, how many times did they find themselves? What is a free country where there is freedom of the press in which someone will count cartoons at some point and then compare it to another period? What is done today in Serbia through these words has been best seen in the way media freedom is experienced. So, if anyone dares to take a critical look at the work and the lie of the prime minister and his Camaril, then he criticises himself for being allowed to say something. Those things that happened until 2012, they can't compare to what you've been doing for the last five years. That's why the little criticism that exists in the media and electronic and printed you're shutting down. Every year, every day. And this debate speaks best of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3013	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Martinovic, and then you... (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. You'll get it, you'll get it. (Radoslav Milojic, from the scene: Twice he reports to talk.) ) Please, Mr. Martinovic... (Goran Ciric, from the scene: he spoke earlier.) ) You do not have the opportunity to view the review in the system when it comes to the declared MPs. Please, you must be logged in to the system You'll get a replica. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: I applied for a replica at the previous exhibition.]] Just before you came forward Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3014	I would ask Mr. Milicevic to give me back my time since the DS gentlemen were very nervous, so they threw me away and I couldn't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3015	Just a second, please. Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3016	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. There are a few things I need to look back on. Well, political ignorants from the DS don't know that every printed media that has its own website, so I guess it's... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3017	Mr. Martinovic, please only if you can not address the MPs directly. (Gordana Comic, from the post: No, the Internet is not covered by the Media Act. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3018	So, if one newspaper has its own website, as far as I understand it, I guess it's electronic media. That's one thing. Another thing, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. I had to say that neither the first nor the other Brussels Agreement were any secret documents but those were acts published on the Office for Kosovo and Metohija's website and that neither in the first nor in the other Brussels Agreement the Serbian Government was... (Gordana Comić, from the site: Is this an injury to the Rules of Procedure or replica? ) Here I am going to let Mrs. Comic yell at me, so I'm going to move on. So, neither in the first nor in the second Brussels Agreement, the Serbian government gave up anything on KIM, gave up the Serbian people first, and then gave up neither the "Telecoma" property nor the "Trepce" property. That's why I mentioned and read parts of the first and second Brussels Agreement. As to whether criticism is allowed, I ask you, I guess you have a little conscience, I guess you have a little morale, tell me, is it a criticism to publish the obituary for a living man, to publish the obituary for a living man, in this case Alexander Vukic, and to say that his father's name is Fahrie, alluding to his father being Albanian. On the second cartoon, he, Nikola Selaković and Alexander Vulin, are moaning for the cross. Is that criticism, is that freedom, is that an argument? No, it's hate. It's a language of hate and it's the only language you can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3019	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3020	You're done with hate language. In fact, you've been broadcasting hate language here for 20 minutes. They broadcast fear. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Who posted it? Who published this? We didn't publish it, of course we didn't, and no one in the DS will react that way. This broadcast of fear, this level of threats through the public message to count, as Marko said, cartoons in the period from 2003 to 2003, and here and the representation of certain politicians in these cartoons, from you teaching us to the Rules of Procedure by never giving us a line on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have just violated the Rules of Procedure by giving a replica to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was advertised by Ms. Komic, by replying that it was not about printed media and that this law was not at all addressing the issue of printed media. That was exactly the theme of this replica. The most about hate language and fear broadcasting is your behavior and that you have tolerated 20 minutes of speech absolutely off topic. You're coalition partners, you're in power together, and you didn't have the strength to react and tell the previous speaker not to talk about the subject, aware of that. We saw your reactions, but there was no readiness. If you broadcast that fear to your coalition partners, what can opposition people expect, what can Serbian citizens expect? I think it's something that showed exactly your approach to what's called freedom of the media, freedom of opinion in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3021	Thank you. I apologize to the chairman for taking the lead at the awkward moment, but Vice President Djordje Milicevic does not broadcast any fear and do not insult him, please. Don't disrespect the vice presidents for party belongings because they're in the coalition with the SNS. You didn't mind when they were in the coalition with you, did you not insult them? Then they didn't broadcast fear, please don't. I'm on his side, which hasn't glued a patch to any of you, let you talk about whatever you want, and at least it's within the media, at least that much. We're really making a great effort to bring this session to an end, because no one wants to talk about the candidates. A very small number of MPs mentioned candidates, then, with our tolerance, strike at us with all your strength. It doesn't make sense. At least we are responsible for the course of the session, both the president and the other chairman. Iolas rot tolerance when someone points arrows at you, I know it's not pleasant, it's not pleasant to the other side, but it's parliamentaryism, it's democracy. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich, a replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) Okay, and for your information, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica of Mark Đurišić, and you got a replica between you. (Gordana Comić, from the post: On my exposure to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I know, the vice president tells me everything. It doesn't matter. You weren't in the O.R., you must be tracking the transmission. Here you are, Marko Djurisic, then Gordana Komic, all are now called.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3022	Thank you, President. I don't know if you've sent by the end of twenty-five minutes to laminate fellow MPs over the sad fate of our prime minister and government who's been attacked seven thousand or I don't know how many times, but what he hasn't said in the printed media and what he hasn't said and can't deny is that in this election campaign, 90% of the time is on national broadcasters, and that's the topic today, the electronic media, the national broadcasters, 90% of the time had in a positive sense the government and the Serbian Progressive Party. Ninety percent of the time. Then you say, "The citizens are free to plead." So, where was the freedom? There's always a leaf here that I've never taken in my life, and it's the most disgusting thing about both the Prime Minister and the members of his family. Why don't you say that you shared that paper with the citizens of Serbia when the same lies were published about the party's officials. You shared it on the street and publicly supported it. It's a policy that's being run in Serbia today. There's no freedom of the media, it can't be said that citizens were free to decide if 90% of the time only gets one party on three national televisions. There's no freedom here. That's why this selection of REM members is a problem. What's that body doing? Has anything been done by its own conclusions? Has it published a report on media monitoring in the last campaign? It's not. Will the chosen candidates do anything about it? He won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3023	Time. Thank you. We'll see when we vote them. Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3024	Thank you. The Law on Electronic Media, which is part of REM's natural and jurisdiction, as well as the procedure for selecting REM members, has no single member of the press. The Internet is not part of the Electronic Media Act. It's not even part of the Information and Media Act. It's sad that there are people here in our O.R. who dare to publicly say they don't know that. What's the law we're discussing? Only about electronic media, it doesn't apply to the Internet. You can't call anyone responsible under this law for anything posted on the Internet. Therefore, REM has no jurisdiction over the Internet, as it is saddened to hear in this room that the Law on Electronic Media does not apply to private media. He's insensitive to media ownership. The same provisions applicable to the Public Service apply to any private medium. It is a common sadness and damage, but it is incomparable to the fact that I do not know how to say what kind of deficits, that information about negotiations with Pristina on all the difficult decisions made in 2015, 2013, 2011, 2009 speaks here on the way and only so much to repeat in a few minutes. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3025	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of speakers. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. Here you are, you have to sign up. Let him wait for Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3026	The shame is these texts that... Otherwise, there's a TV that, I think, ends every evening's information show by announcing what's going to come out tomorrow in a certain daily newspaper. So much for what the media is. Here is the shame, and it should be a shame for you who pay to attack your own country, even in Strasbourg by contesting the accreditation of the Serbian delegation, among other things – Vukic is bowed to as a saint. "Blic," I guess you read "Blic" Mr. Djurisic, that's your party newspaper, he says -- this is where the prime minister will rest, and then a picture of a Greek island, and a man has not had a vacation day. Then it's the blood money of the Wolfs. Then “Al Jazeera” – Andrej Vukic model of Murphy’s Law. Well then, the wolf should have been killed. “Blic” – the case of the Vukic brothers. ‘Blic’ – Fahrija’s son. You should be ashamed. This kind of announcement about the Prime Minister is hate not for one man. This is how you try to bring down the dignity and dignity of the Serbian state. Political hatred has blinded you to this extent that you no longer know how to distinguish between party policy and state policy, and therefore, don't you who ruined your own party, you tried the state, but Alexander Vukic did not give you any lessons about freedom, especially about media freedom, because this is not media freedom. This isn't criticism. This is hate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3027	We're moving on to Article 96. The word has Marko Djurisic, four minutes and 22 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3028	Thank you. After this debate, I am unfortunately sure that they will change positively in the work of REM, regardless of which candidates will be chosen, because people who will receive majority support here will get support to continue as old, that there are no problems, that from year to year in conclusions, the very conclusions about meeting the legal obligations of the broadcasters are repeated the same things found that every year the situation is getting worse and worse, so from the reality programs started their broadcast in Serbia seven, eight years or two hours ago, came up to 14 hours a day on a national broadcaster with a national permit, 14 hours a day, the reality of the programme with the worst possible content, with the promotion of the worst values that exist, if any can be talked about promoting any value. It's all the opposite of any value. All of this here is going to get the obvious support of the majority to continue with it. They repeat again, what REM must not publish, their report on the election campaign monitoring, but did the OSCE, 90% of the time the three national televisions dedicated to the government and the SNS, 90% of the time unpaid, and when the number was paid, they would see that 20 or 30 times more spent money by the SNS for paid advertising. What equal conditions and free choice of citizens are we talking about? I think the best picture will give a vote on candidates who have proposed associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. I have a strong suspicion that any of the two proposed candidates will get a majority in this Assembly, and that will certainly be another proof in which this majority wants to control and edit all media in Serbia through REM, electronic media, and through economic influence, advertising and printed media, because this is the main model that is well worked out and you can clearly see what the editorial policy of certain media is and how it corresponds with advertisers, I am talking about printed media. We will not plead for these candidates. This debate itself in parliament has a great handicap because we, as MPs, other than the members of the Committee on Culture, were unable to hear the views of the proposed candidates and their thoughts on how they would like to participate in the work of the regulatory body, the Council of the Regulatory Body and contribute to change. Their biography and support for the applause of most unfortunately, I repeat, tells us that there will be no improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3029	Thank you. Now we're going from a smaller group to a bigger group. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3030	Thank you, Madam President. So, I really believe that Mr. Marko Djurisic must know one important thing, which is that the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic, has the obligation to give a daily dose of praise to the greatest son of all peoples and peoples not named Josip Broz Tito, but Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3031	We don't want to insult the MPs. So you insult Alexander Martinovic to speak according to someone's instructions. Don't say that. By whose instructions, then, do the other MPs speak? Don't. You can say the same thing without insulting anyone. Whose instructions are yours, then? I'll give you your time back. No, he won't get the right, because he doesn't lead to insults. I'll pay you back, time. Thank you. Sign up again so I can count your time from zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3032	Thank you. So, what may be the conclusion, at least as regards the Dveri parliamentary group in relation to this agenda point, is that REM, as the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has practically avoided doing all its most important functions or deliberately avoided doing all its functions, in agreement with all the ruling regimes since the founding of REM to date. So he never provided equal media treatment for all electoral participants. He never got in the way of a media project called reality show. What, of course, is particularly dramatic, allowed the integration of the media monopoly of foreign television broadcasters and disrupted the competition of domestic television channels. The best example is today shutting down the SOS channel from the SBB cable network behind which former CIA chief David Petreus stands. Indeed, a serious question arises as to what a former CIA chief is doing in Serbia's media space. Who allowed him to go through Serbia's media content and in this way practically kill the competition of domestic broadcasters, helping foreign sports channels and favouring foreign media capital? What was certainly valuable here was the role of RTS. Serbia's radio-television, which in the two days of the assembly session, interrupted our direct transmissions of our assembly work, which is a scandal over scandals. A Serbian radio-television that practically shuts down any polemic emissions, where there would be any interaction between the authorities and the opposition at all. I can give you a personal example. Here, it has been full six months since the recent early republican elections, and no representative of the Serbian Dvora Movement, the Dveri parliamentary group has hosted any live broadcasts. I guess it's normal for a new parliamentary political option that first entered the National Assembly even if it was invited once, to possibly allow Serbian citizens to hear what it has to say. I watched, for example, Croatian state television, the next day after the elections, all those who entered the new Croatian Parliament, i.e. their representatives, were on state television. Representatives of the Davery, here's six months after the election, they didn't visit one live on RTS. If, Mr. Martinovic, we agree there's something wrong with that RTS, let's change it together. Here, they agree and radicals, no Seselj, you're complaining about being attacked by RTS, we think they're absolutely censoring the work of the Dvori and visiting the Dveri representative, let's change something about such a public media service, which obviously works in someone else's function, I don't know whose then. Maybe the former head of the CIA, David Petreus. I don't really know whose public media service Serbia is then, if it isn't Serbia's public media service and if we who have received citizens' trust don't have the opportunity to show up on it. As for famous candidates, it is enough to mention only the candidates "Jucoma" by Mr. Milan Antonijevic, who really has an impeccable biography. He studied the Faculty of Law in Belgrade for 11 years, had a very successful final work on the topic "Use of Democracy for Peace in Serbia", I assume that he is referring to NATO bombing, has always been hired around the World Bank and the Soroshe Open Society Fund, but by no means, watch out for his brilliant political career. First, he was a member of the Committee on Human Rights of the LSV from 2008 to 2012, and was then a member of the Committee on Human Rights of the DS from 2013 to 2014 and was named as a logical end of his career as a member of the Council of the Government of Serbia to monitor the implementation of the Action Plan against Discrimination in Vucic's Government in 2015. So it's about a picture of SNS personnel, from LSV through DS to SNS. In that sense, of course, I can agree with Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic that I would never vote for the former G17 Plus piece, such as one of these candidates, but then, Mr. Djukanovic, you were not allowed to vote for Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, who was adviser to Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic in the same G17 plus, which clearly shows your unprinciplence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3033	You've wasted your time. Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, you haven't wasted group time in 20 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3034	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a favorite of the electronic media, unlike my colleague, who was a live guest at RTS as an extraparliamentary party, I haven't had that opportunity since 1988, as someone over whom I am almost the only one with censorship in live broadcasts, 27-28 times since 1997 to 2000. Let's see whose tears were hot, whether mine that I was censored in person, whether my party folk peasants, which was six times parliamentary, and not once, except in election campaigns, had not even had a chance to talk live about agriculture. Public interest is the main thing REM does. Let's see what the public interest was yesterday. Yesterday, the public interest was that the state service, including other media, should they wish to announce why one party was not in the Council of Europe parliament. I'll tell you why. But there was no public interest on RTS to make that public. That the party received 37 votes less than the qualified party. Do you know why? Because the former president of the party, who called his party a ship of lunatics, not me, asked for membership in the Council of Europe's parliament to be missed by the vote against his party and 37 votes. It was a public interest yesterday. He's obviously not respected. REM, I looked, most of them were elected in 2011. I wasn't anywhere near the Assembly. The leader of a opposition party that has long been with party representatives of the former regime has recently left, now it's a left, says that in Serbia there is growing fascism and it is being broadcast. This tells you about censorship and dictatorship. A single wife – second or third man of Serbian Radio-Television. They talk about censorship and dictatorship. I know why. Speaking of censorship and dictatorship, here, I wasn't at RTS, someone's been silently banning me since 1988, and I can't even talk about hoochs in person. But here's to India. The radio-television of Indji, which was financed by my money, has not yet been published, and it was a public service, municipally, that I was elected in 2012, 2014, and 2016, not that I didn't get the time, except that I was invited by listeners and then spit, they haven't yet announced that I had been elected in 2012. We paid for that television, the municipality had its own public service, but, behold, miracles – the president of the municipality, the successful one, also funded the Sremski TV, which belonged to his godfather, on which I could not appear in person. I wasn't complaining, I wasn't talking about censorship, which was so obvious and still present today. Millions got the best man to buy the same radio-television indija, and you're talking about privatizing some other media. You asked the state to come out of the media. When we got out, now it's our fault. Electronic media is not ideal. They're independent when they broadcast the kind of program that suits us. That was good until 2012. When they don't broadcast as they please us, and they're free of our directors and editors of RTS and the Public Service, they're free of everything, then they're not independent anymore. When they praised you, they were independent. Now that you're a little less, they're dictators, censor television, etc. The lack of quality is due to freedom. Are you asking us to try to keep the media free, and in that freedom to make mistakes, so that they have a lack of quality, and since this is a small market, since they compete for every commercial, are you asking us to choke media freedoms because of the lack of quality of the program or are you looking for something else? Are you going to introduce censorship or not? If you're asking us to be an arbiter, and I agree that this REM isn't the happiest solution, it's the only consequence, the causes are deeper, the causes are 2000, 2001, privatisation, where foreign companies bought everything, the rest remain tycoons. The media became agents of capital, they convey a message of capital. And the one that's advertised -- if you don't support these yellow ones, I won't advertise on your television anymore. That's how it was, and now it is. REM just escorted that kind of activity. David Petreus. We didn't bring him. Someone who wants to create political opportunities or trouble has nested here in your time. And now someone who respects all the things you've messed up, all these alleged freedoms, is now this censor, censoring, dictator, and then. Imagine now the following – that by 2012 the director of RTS was Mr. Djukanovic. Would that be possible? Of course not. The opposition had a leader on the Radio Focus and two hours at KCN, where the KCN journalists regularly threw them out, from the president of the Republic to the City Assembly, because they were not considered journalists at all. They were unwanted. Who got into BK TV in 2006? We're not. Djukanovic didn't. Mr. Martinovic didn't. Who took over electronic media with long pipes? What do your masterpieces tell you? I believe we'll repack yellow in yellow. I don't know what's going to happen, how we vote, I don't know this gentleman, or Pekovic, or Plassic or the others. To be honest, I don't know how I'm gonna vote. But I'm asking you -- who got into BK television, one of the best TVs with information programs and other shows, yes, yes, Mr. Pivsky, it's funny, banned long pipes, so some foreign companies come here, some foreign owners broadcast programs, become broadcasters. When they banned some show that you respect, then it's our fault. You banned BK television, gave advantage to foreigners, and when they eliminated as owners of that show, it was our fault. Unbelievable. You won't forgive us even your own mistakes. Realites. I was part of one, too. I went from "Farme" to a farm. You're making a big deal out of it now. I'm asking you, not only who organized the first reality, it's politically you, but who made very big money thanks to Emoush, Darek Media, Big Brother, etc. Who went straight from the parliamentary benches to that reality? I'm not. In 2010, I went from one farm to another and slept with animals. I think you've gone too far in criticism, because this country wasn't ruined by farmers but by charmers. These charmers on the other hand, who paid three thousand lunches at the expense of home health, who drank at the extraction of hectolitre blood, hundreds of hectolitres of beer, Heineken etc., and I ask you -- why didn't you raise your voice a little against movies where there was so much violence, sex, pornography? Why didn't you make a fuss about movies, like American movies, and I watched one three times, where Serbs allegedly carry an atomic bomb to the U.S. This film has been broadcast several times on our central televisions, whose frequencies you shared and not me. Did you raise your voice against that? Did you raise your voice against Gilas for making enormous money on Big Brother? Did the gentleman from Zaječar, as president of the municipality, go to reality, directly from function? Did an MP from the former regime go directly from the bench to strengthen that reality? To get your executive board president as much as possible. Why didn't you raise your voice against those who made a movie about the nuclear threat of Serbs in America, the country that dropped an atomic bomb on two cities and civilians? It didn't occur to you to raise your voice against REM, to say how it could be broadcast. Why don't you say there's violence in cartoons. That didn't occur to you. You only care about politics, the more you take pictures, the more you broadcast, but it won't help you much. You won more in the election than you deserve. Realities aren't exactly the most moral, but it's not moral in RIK to beat those women and twist their arms. It's not moral for you to make a political party out of a church organization, I would never do that. But the media is basically doing good and bad. This government, and I'm a witness to that, has done nothing to discipline the media. This government doesn't implement censorship. This power is in censorship. The public's interest is for Serbian Sanader to be the subject of several shows, former Prime Minister, a man who was caught with his hands in honey. The man who planted the vineyard in March and rented the plot in 2007 in November 2007. To get a subsidy or to plant something, you have to have agricultural land and land. The moment he planted it, he had nothing. Here's the paper right here. That's what helped him, the one you're capable of not having today. Agricultural land registered to another either, a contract signed on 7.11. and a vineyard planted in the spring of 2007, six months before the plot. But why is the prosecution withdrawing charges against the one who signed it? I'll tell you. Because the people at the top of the prosecution are involved in this case, like Krajkovac, Meroshin. You're welcome to take a look. These are parcels of 2997/2, 2997/4. You'll see who owns these parcels, the person who works in the prosecution, the person who's at the top of the prosecution, the person who was the secretary of legislation in your government, the person who was on two election committees. E, its parcels were used to fictitically register ownership in July in India, registered land with parcels in Meroshina, to satisfy the form as much as possible. That's why the D.A. covered it up. Is it a public interest to find out? Of course it is. But yesterday he spread out as a thesis, talking about how the prosecution did it, the prosecution that was covered in family and political ties, and that's why I didn't even want to vote for Zagorka Dolovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the story of censorship, the story of dictatorship is only a cause. The TV has a remote control, but when you ruled Serbia, you were the remote control of some other people, some other power centers that controlled Serbia through you. The story of censorship and dictatorship, and I was a member of DOS... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the city: You have repented bitterly. ) I have not repented of the changes, but I have repented of the leaders who spent enormous energy on making public business private businesses and, like this, filling their home budgets, solving their existence, not the existence of the people. The story of censorship and dictatorship should be the story of liberators. Here, they've united, they've given up on you, you don't need them anymore. They've united a yellow duck with a yellow duck, with a brown goose, etc. They've all united to make liberators who, behold, fight censorship, dictatorship and dictators, and then they'll make us happy again with the poor uranium. The spirit of the "merciful angel" is still in the form of poor uranium hovering over Serbia. Should this be a reason for them to be reinstalled and for the Republic of Serbia to be over you and those now formed as liberators, to be a country in remote control again? Now, that won't work, it won't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3035	Thank you. We still have Vesna Marjanovic from the authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3036	Thank you. I must admit that at the beginning of this session, I had much more optimism and some kind of satisfaction, because I myself participated in a process that took too long, that we would move forward and first supplement, form this agency as a whole, that is, the REM Council and that we would have a constructive debate. But unfortunately, in the last few days there have been alarming replicas, comments that we haven't really heard in a very long time, and we have heard of some candidates who have been legitimately proposed by a part of the society that they are domestic traitors, for a good part of journalists and journalists associations that they are foreign mercenaries. It's really one step back that I must admit, even I didn't expect to talk to you like that today and yesterday. As part of the selection theme of the REM Council members, it is truly outrageous, it speaks of either enormous ignorance, which is not allowed to us MPs, especially if we are preparing for a session, or if it is not about ignorance, it means that we are actually insulting citizens because we claim that something is true, although it is very clear by the law that it is absolutely not standing. I want to talk about facts now. It's true that this process was transparent and it's really good that it was so, because if it wasn't transparent, then we wouldn't be able to determine many facts. I think among us MPs there may be a difference between those who want their comments and performances in the Assembly to be recorded in the tabloids. I belong to those who, I want my comments and my advances in the National Assembly, and I think that's the case with my colleagues, to remain recorded in the official documents of this important institution, to keep the truth recorded for the future. In that sense, it was said that there was no breach of procedures. The difference between violation and abuse of procedures is very small, it's a thin line when we talk about it. In that sense, I think it is very important that we remind ourselves of certain facts that are extremely important and are in favour of how today, tomorrow or already when it comes to voting day, MPs will identify individual candidates. The election process for the REM Council on Civil Society Organisations began on 13 October 2015, on 10 November at the Committee on Culture and Information with nine votes in favour and only one against SNS MPs voted that Zoran Pekovic's candidacy was not filed in accordance with the law. Just two weeks later, on November 5th of the same year, something changed, and the same MPs vote this time to accept the candidate's candidacy. After that, in December attempts to annul fully legitimately and documents backed the vote and consultation of NGOs that proposed candidates by wanting to accept only one number of objections and another part of the objection that did not correspond to the majority to be rejected. That didn't go away either. On the 19th of January 2016, it tries with a new way of affecting this process, and proposes authentic interpretation, which also, if we look a little bit better, was actually tried to amend the law rather than interpret it, so that this same candidate would try to choose at all costs and find himself on that list. At the same session, the same majority withdraw their proposal for authentic interpretation. After much peripetia, on 4 February 2016, a list of candidates was finally established, which we have in front of us today, although the law says it was to be held at the first next session, seven sessions passed, it was not on the agenda, and when it was found, before the election was called itself, it was again the same day and withdrawn. I don't know what you'd call this, maybe it's not a violation of the law, but if this is respect for procedure, I'm afraid we have a very different understanding of it. What was very worrying about today's discussion was the fact that certain electronic media are private and that we can't do anything about it. They're private, but they've got a national frequency to work in the public interest. I'm under the impression that SNS MPs want us to stay out of public interest. That's why this agency exists, to control whether private and other electronic media respect public interest. This includes, among other things, pluralism of opinion, means representation of minorities, means equal representation of parties and many other things, cultural programme, educational programme and not to list any further. What seems, however, if you can call it positive, so at least you can conclude from this discussion, that most of the time no one here is satisfied with the work of this regulatory body. And maybe we should start from there. Unfortunately, the discussion, I repeat, is not in favour of this so far, but here I will try to put a little bit of hope on the basis of this discussion that we will come to this definitive conclusion that, in the work of this council, something serious has to change and in the authority of this Assembly is to carry out and audit this law, we will propose certain amendments and additions, the statutes adopted also by the committee in charge of this Assembly, that REM reports which are not more detailedly discussed in this Assembly, that the way this agency is financed, too, be considered in a more serious way and that the work of this agency is properly supervised. Finally, I must admit that, I will repeat, the reason why I have repeated this whole process today is only because through this process it is seen for whom the parliamentary majority will vote very personally, set up to vote, and that is the biggest problem in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3037	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3038	I don't know how they're gonna vote. For example, I have not yet defined myself, except I know that I will certainly not vote for Mrs Plassic and Mr Antonijevic. There's no dilemma here, and these are your favorites that you've tried in a variety of ways to figure out here, or to be in REM. Well, speaking of REM, I have to say, we have incredible calls here. We have, say, an invitation to work together to make the RTS program better or to work together so that we don't know our media are better. Guys, we don't have a right to do that. That's what you've come up with. REM is the one who regulates what our media will be like. We just choose REM, not even on our proposal, but on the proposal of professional associations. These candidates come by some other associations proposing them, we choose these people. The way REM works, we can discuss it here when their report comes, but we can't influence RTS, and I hear incredible calls here, and I'm really shocked. Is it possible that someone doesn't know what the powers of parliament are in that segment? On the other hand, and here we heard an expression that apparently some journalists were called by foreign mercenaries. I never said that, nor did I think of it. I call them regime mercenaries, domestic mercenaries, and why? Because this power, unfortunately, gave the largest amount of money to those media and their journalists, especially NUNS, the Independent Society of Journalists, etc. And that's scary. We have a big problem. I often criticize my own party, including the government, why did the state give so much money to them? We have a situation that one of the authors of the show got from the Ministry of Culture quite a substantial amount of money to work on N1 television the whole series about how Alexander Vukic is a dictator. I really sometimes asked some members of my party if they're normal, they're paying for their own collapse, and it's really not right. If we're already talking, there are no larger regime mercenaries than those in NUNS and the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina. They're the biggest regime mercenaries in the world right now. So much for censorship and dictatorship. We're talking censorship, so look at the state media as it is, for example, "Politicals". Who writes columns there? Here, Mr. Radulovic wrote a column yesterday, Vukadinovic a little bit, and he writes a column a little bit. I'm sorry, when someone else was able to write it, he accidentally looked at the SNS, his view of the political situation as for example. Boris Tadic runs the country. That didn't stand a chance. After all, when we talk about ownership structures, you didn't know who was drinking and who was paying. We only later learned that this company from Moscow is the owner of "Politicals". That's what happened in your day. No one had any idea who owns the Evening News, no one today can tell who owns all the TVs and what's going on here. And we've passed this law where it's required to examine the ownership structure. You didn't want it because in a magical way, with your tycoons, you bought media, bought influence here. That's the difference between our view of the media and what we want to do and what you've been doing. After all, there's talk here about some sort of show download and then it's said - the government has downloaded some kind of show. It's not the government, it's the owner of that television, and it didn't even take off, but it recommended that the manager go to the information channel, and this one said I won't, so he said, well, it's worth it more, do whatever you want, and that same owner of that TV was brought by you, and we're told it's the biggest investor and the best possible investor in the media. The same manager worked at the agency that had the closest co-operation with that television owner and she has no right to complain to anyone today, because she was taken off by her employer. Why? I have no idea. Ask him if it's worth it or not. Anyway, if you really think that this show has ratings, you open up your television, however you want, you have a businessman, go into that business, bring in, make those shows, make money on it. Don't ask us to call the owners of the television house and tell them – you have to have that show. After all, not all of them are journalists, who are members of NUNS, sacred cows, so that we must always, when they cough, run and say – no, no, he must stay, he must draw cartoons. What dictatorship are you talking about? You have a cartoonist who received an annual award from this country "Official Messenger", a state-owned house, or state-owned firm. He won the award as a cartoonist for 2014. What he didn't say - I don't want the regime money, I don't feel sick about the dictatorial money I got, and I don't want the official messenger award, because Vukic is the prime minister, and that's not when he makes it look good. You see, that's the hypocrisy that governs us. After all, we heard one story about that coup, so now you're all laughing. I'm sorry, there's a medium here that announced that the Prime Minister and his brother went to recruit a reporter at the bar. Do you know what that means? That means next. Let's just say, this Prime Minister, because he's such a criminal, a dictator who goes to recruit someone for 120 euros, he can pretty much take whoever he wants and what he wants, and then liquidate him, why not, when he's a criminal. What are we talking about here? It really was some kind of coup attempt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3039	Ambassador, bring the end. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3040	Find me a country where you can write something like that for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3041	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3042	I've got another minute, if I can finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3043	You don't have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3044	Anyway, I'll think twice about which of these candidates I'm going to vote for and whether or not I'm going to vote at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3045	I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted a search, the National Assembly will decide on the election of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates submitted by authorised applicants. Members, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 60-minute break and we're continuing our work at 17.05 p.m. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda, because we don't need ministers. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs in accordance with article 195, in accordance with Article 157(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm opening a principled search. Does the representative of Proposer Gjorge Komlenski want a word about this point? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3047	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, you have before you a proposal for authentic interpretation relating to Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and waterways, the economic society for the production and processing of steel “Gelezara Smederevo d.o.o.” from Smederava. This proposal was agreed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Issues at its 2nd session on 3 October 2016, as it was necessary to remove any possible ambiguities and dilemmas in the application of the law in question to which this proposal for authentic interpretation relates. In fact, the provision of Article 6(1) of the Law states that on land above underground waters whose investor is Željzara, Željzara has the right to pass and access under the obligation of the owners, i.e. the holder of that land, not to interfere with the use and maintenance of that facility, or water. The reason for the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law is possible misunderstandings that exist, or may arise around this officiality that is determined by this legal text. It appeared in the context of the concluded contract of sale relating to the property of Jelizara, i.e. the need to establish legal certainty on the issue of whether the rights of the service established by this law when transferring property rights over underground lines set out in the purchase contract would automatically be transferred from Jelizara as the former owner of underground water to the buyer as the future owner of the underground lines. Although the law does not explicitly stipulate that the service referred to in Article 6(1) of the Law automatically moves on to the buyer, it is clear from the legislator's intention that, in the context of the privatisation process itself, the establishment of land office on which Jelizara has no right to property, or other appropriate rights, and it has waterways, which would create legal certainty regarding relations with landowners through which the waters are spread. For this reason, the Committee considered that the interpretation is necessary and the only correct interpretation that is proposed to you here today in the original text is that the service referred to in Article 6(1) of the Law is established for the benefit of the current owner of the waterways, so that the Jelizars as the current owner of the waterways, but also of any future owner of the waterways in the event that the waters pass through certain legal transactions into the possession of third parties and thus would ensure that they also acquire the right of service. Only for this reason, because it is not explicitly stated in the law, we could come up with a slightly absurd situation, which is that the right of the future buyer is in some way diminished or difficult to achieve in relation to Jellyzar. Since this was obviously not the legislator's intention, but rather, the intention was to finally resolve property legal relations in a consistent and lasting way in terms of everything, including the waters, because the waters are currently in the possession of the Irons and such a solution, both for the moment and for some future moment, should be an absolute legal certainty for anyone who entered this process. In particular, such authentic interpretation is necessary, since the law did not provide for the mandatory registration of the right of service under Article 6 as a condition of its creation, and it is not usual that the book created under the legal provision must be entered in the catalogue of immovableity and other public books, because it practically produces all the full legal facts by making the law itself. For this reason, I will return to the text, we suggest that authentic interpretation be adopted in which the above provision should be understood by establishing legal real service for the benefit of the daily owner of the water, whose investor was “Smederevo Iron” d.o.o. Smederevo, who is their current owner, means that the service monitors the property on the lines, and that, in the case of transfer of property rights on the lines, it also automatically becomes the official of the law of Article 6(1), without the need for the transfer of the right of service to be particularly regulated by legal work. This provision should also be understood by the fact that the acquisition of the service referred to in Article 6(1) of the Law does not require the registration of that service in the immobility cadastry or any other public book, but that the service produces facts directly on the basis of the law. For now, I think that's more than enough for the opening part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3048	Thank you. Who calls from the president or representative of the parliamentary groups? Let's go in turn, the word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3049	I thank the chairman. As regards the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. The law on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of a company for the production and processing of steel “Smederevo Irons”, in principle should not be any problem and it is not really something that the opposition should not support. There's absolutely no dilemma. The only question is why today we have to talk in front of ourselves about authentic interpretation and whether it is the result of some of the screw-ups that have arisen before, during the construction and signing of a purchase contract or as various laws adopted in this house by emergency procedure and which were, as a rule, even corrected several times. Such a situation is now also related to this authentic interpretation of "The Iron" Smederevo. "The Iron" Smederevo as Serbia's largest business system and that it deserves special attention and, of course, if for nothing else then for the losses it has made all these years. Since US Stella's departure in 2012, the losses recorded by "Zeljara" and therefore cost citizens of Serbia, amounting to around 60m euros. So, these losses increased year by year, and the state served those losses and those debts by providing guarantees, commercial banks, loans, funds, development funds, and then directly on loans from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the largest amount transferred by the Irons was transferred in 2015 to 100m euros. Over 100m euros were transferred in one day by "The Irons" funds to keep the system running. But if we go back a little bit and look at the genealogy of things, we will see that the state has chosen "The Iron" to support it as an important company, as the only steel producer in this country, as a company employed by 5,000 workers, and this may not be disputed that "The Iron Company" was the only such company in Serbia. If the aspect of the maintenance of the Iron Sea was also social peace and it is not disputed again, and if 5,000 people should not be left without a job and it is not disputed. It's a dispute as to why "The Irons" may have been isolated from some other companies, and we know that the state has declared 17 strategic companies. As far as "The Irons" themselves are concerned, Mr. Bojan Bojkovic's debts continued to grow, and the peak of the loss was made when the state brought professional management of Peter Kamaraš and John Goodis, who were supposed to make the highest score for the state. We listened to the prime minister's announcements that there would be no more losses, that "The Irons" would be a profitable enterprise. What have we received from this great and pompous announcement of Kamariša's arrival in "Zelezar" in early 2015? We got that the same government that hired them in 2016 kicked them out because of the debt they made, i.e. the loss of the largest in the history of "Gelezzare" 145m euros. So, 50 million more than in 2014 when our professional management, which the RS government had previously appointed, was doing. So the question arises – who will be responsible for those debts that were then incurred and where will it be paid, and if we keep in mind that the Chinese company Hestil bought the assets of the companies and that the debts were incurred by the RS? The total debts, i.e. the losses of the Irons at this point amount to as much as 500m euros. I will remind you that all the savings we have made, or the state has achieved on the basis of your reduction in wages and pensions, is now around 400m euros. Is this how we implement the policy this government advocates, and are we really going to have such results? The question is, what's going to happen next? I don't want to say anything bad about Hestille, I don't want to talk about Serbia not having to "The Iron". Serbia needs "Gelezar", it needs a steel manufacturer and that means for our economy and for the economy of our country, but in the way this government is doing, and these are various secret contracts, and the public is the one that needs to be familiar with the contracts, the citizens of Serbia should be familiar with them are not familiar. The practice of the "Er Serbia" and the contract with the investor for the construction of "Beograda na Voda" and the contract concerning "Zelezaru" continues. The public was also completely excluded about negotiations with "Esmark". We heard the prime minister that one of the grounds for coming and negotiating with "Esmark" was that "The Irons" had very large supplies and that it was their motive. Unfortunately, the "Esmark" ended as it ended, and fortunately now we have something and I don't want to, and I don't have a problem with saying something good, which is that "Hestil" is now in "The Irons," but I also have a fear because I don't know what's meant by this contract and what's waiting for Serbia in the next period related to "Hestil" if the consultant's estimates today say that "Gelezara" will have losses of over 200m euros by 2020. So, what we've heard about "The Iron" is also during this year where we've had a remark that the associations of EU steel producers that launched the process in front of European organisations are accusing the leadership of "The Irons" of dumping prices and distortions of competition. That's what we also heard from the media. We do not have as citizens of Serbia, nor MPs information about what is really true except what we read from the media and what consequences it may have on our steel producer and the company Hestil that came to Serbia today. No matter how much money we give directly to "Zelezar" or give guarantees for the debt, it eventually turns everything into a fiscal cost, and this cost is paid primarily by the citizens of Serbia, not to mention the debts that "Serbiagas" has to do with the EPS and other public enterprises. I have to ask the question here – what about the other 17 strategic enterprises in Serbia, and so at the beginning of my presentation, I said whether "Ilezara" should only be singled out? In the part of Serbia that I come from in central Serbia, "14 has been shut down. In October, during the period of your government and your term of office, the government in the last four years, the first five-year-old was extinguished, i.e. driven into bankruptcy by the Car Factory in the Kingdom. In these factories, dear colleagues worked over 10,000 workers by 2012. There are no more workers here. So that's the question. The first five-year-old is a factory that also employs 5,000 workers. We asked for the same principle to be applied to it as to "The Iron" Smederevo, to be applied to the state because 70% of the production is exported. She hasn't received a dinar of the subsidy budget in the last two years. Their workers didn't have untrusted books, salaries were serviced on a regular basis. Unfortunately, there was no hearing. Even the prime minister announced that we had a buyer, that the job of the "First Five-year-old" was completed. There was nothing of it. I'd be happy if the government had more results in finding foreign investors. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and then we came into a situation where we estimated some companies that we should finance them from the budget, and some that we shouldn't, and what's worse than those who had any potential of those 17 strategically protected companies didn't help them survive on the market. Today, this production continues to be realized under other circumstances. The market exists, the customers exist, but there was absolutely no hearing, and what is the result is that unlike "The Irons" Smederevo, unlike the 5,000 people who work in "The Irons" over 10,000 people, there were no jobs in this part of Serbia from Kruševac to the Kings in both large systems and large giants. As far as "Gelezzare" was concerned, it was symptomatic to see a way of communication between the government of RS, the leadership of "Gelezzare" Bojan Bojkovic and the professional management hired by the government. We saw the war with statements where they accused each other, we didn't know who was responsible, whether the management by the government of RS and Mr. Boykovic, whether Peter Kamaras and John Goodish, who came here. They accused each other of losing about 150m euros, the largest in the history of "Steels" and who would bear responsibility for it, so whoever brought one and the other there, and this is the RS government, the prime minister who announced that Kamaras would launch "The Iron" and make a profitable enterprise out of it. What we received as information, that Kamaras accused Bojan Bojkovic of obtaining the raw materials he paid for 100m euros from a German buyer who never came. On the other hand, Bojkovic accused Kamaras of why he and his company were also a supplier of raw materials, as well as a buyer of the product "Zeljezare" and that he was actually responsible because he had different contracts with his company "Pikaro". The question arises whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia knew about Kamarashev's firm "Pikaro", whether she knew about the contracts that the company had with "Zelezar" at which the price of raw materials was obtained, what the company bought from "Zeljezara" and who eventually took part of the cake, if it took it, because more than 145m euros was the loss achieved that year, so the largest in history, I repeat again. Then, of course, we had Minister Sertic, who had a special task in resolving the issue of "Gelezzare" and who protected his management, so that Prime Minister Vukic would eventually side with Kamaris, defending them that the conditions in the steel market for business were bad because of the current price of steel on the world market and that was an excuse for the bad decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am interested, and I expect someone to answer me. Who will bear these costs and these losses, and who is responsible for it? Should Serbian citizens pay the price of irresponsible government behaviour, irresponsible behaviour by the government of the Republic of Serbia and resolute ministers in search and search for magical solutions? All the magical solutions you've mentioned haven't produced any results so far, and this is also at "The Irons" because, once again, over half a billion today owes "The Irons" to Smederevo and these are the debts you leave to the citizens of Serbia. And if Serbia's citizens are to pay out of their pocket those debts and pay as taxpayers, I ask – why did the same system not apply to other companies also designated as strategic enterprises by the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. state-interested enterprises, such as "The First Five-year-old", "14. October" or The Car Factory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3050	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: What did you say about authentic interpretation? Nothing about authentic interpretation, but I let the MP as a matrix know that we can talk and beyond. The People's Messenger Nenad Milic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3051	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk a little bit about authentic interpretation. Unfortunately, we've been put in a position to choose between two bad things. Both things are bad. It's one thing to hurt some legal order, and another thing is that it's logical and what life imposes. We choose between these two today. Legally formal, the official of office, very clearly, is “Gelezara” d.o.o. Again, essentially, the owner of the water is "Hestil", "Zelezara" d.o.o., who is the holder of the right of service, has no property and today we have to decide that "Zelezara" d.o.o., which is not privatized, is not the title of the right of service, but what it is, I admit logically, is who it is. The question is, of course, how did we come up with that problem? Now I have to get out of the question of authentic interpretation, I hope my colleague Krasic doesn't get angry. Unfortunately, "Zelezara" Smederevo has served for years as a political outreach in Serbia. The situation, I'm not an economist, but I don't think there should be some big economist to say that "The Iron" fell apart the second the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia fell apart and the sanctions were imposed, that at that moment "The Ironstone", which was export-oriented, lost the market, that the Serbian market was not enough for "The Iron" and that after ten years of working with the stick and the ropes, it was practically impossible to bring back the iron to life in the way it had done before the sanctions. All other attempts by the Serbian state to do something other than find a strategic partner have naturally failed because they were not logical. The only strategic partner that US Steel was or what Hestil is today, which has a market for the product "Smederevo" could economically manage the iron industry. However, we witnessed for ten years and longer that what happened in 2003 with "The Iron" when it was sold in a bankruptcy procedure, called crime, the most representatives of the current ruling majority said that "The Irons" were worth 400 million, 500 million, that it was donated to Americans, etc. What's a simple fact is that unlike this present way, in 2003, only a respected law. "The Iron" was sold in bankruptcy proceedings. In 1996, it met all the conditions for bankruptcy proceedings, in 2001 or 2002, it did not matter, the bankruptcy procedure was opened, the bankruptcy procedure was sold and the best bidder bought, first obtained management rights, and then bought "Gelezar" Smederevo at the price offered as the best bidder at that time, no other offers were available. Ten years later, we heard that it was a crime, that it was corruption, that it couldn't be so, that "The Iron" was worth a lot of money, even though those ten years of "The Irons" were the most convincing exporter and provided foreign exchanges for Serbia's budget. After ten years of this terrible privatisation, as everyone called it, and was not privatized, but sold by the court, in bankruptcy, no government, no ministers, no DOS officials, but the court and no one else, just the court, as it was only possible and how it was to be done today. If you'd done so with a Chinese partner, we wouldn't have gotten to these problems. Erem, after ten years of successful work, to remind you, 10,000 employees had "The Irons" in 2001. When US Steel came out, she had 5,000. The number of employees with the social programme has been reduced, over 300m dollars has been invested for the ten years. Budget, I was talking about how full it was of Smederevo's Ironworks. After four years, it took this government to find a new strategic partner and that's great. We will also support this authentic interpretation because we don't want to behave, why I'm saying this, we don't want to act the way the opposition acted for those ten years, the worse – the better, since it's not worse. If there was both corruption and crime in the bankruptcy proceedings, once again, selling Sartida in 2003, why did you place people who came based on bankruptcy as professional management a year ago? That's Mr. Goodish. He led "The Iron" in front of US Steel for ten years. If someone had been corrupt before, if someone from the government, by the clerks, the ministers of those days, had been corrupt, so someone had to corrupt it. So who's going to corrupt it instead of the buyer? As far as I know, and I think I know that part a little better than the economy, it's a crime of bribery, not just receiving. So, for ten years, you've been accusing someone of practically giving bribes, and then setting him up for professional management, and then, after four years of losing, what losses are probably nobody knows. This is where previous Prime Minister Dacic said that $10 million is when he doesn't even work 20 million when he works. It may sound illogical at first glance, but it is when we talk about money from the budget. This is not meant for secondary inflows, so it was better for Serbia when "The Iron" works. But that's not the point. The thing is, it took you four years, all those four years, so between $10 and $20 million a month, to finally find a partner. The money that was sold for is meaningless, 40 million, 50 or 20, given the losses made for Serbia's Iron budget, I don't think it's something we should talk about. But the way you did it technically led to this problem today. If you had just respected the law, "The Iron Man" would have met the conditions for bankruptcy and let the court go, as it was done in 2003, this problem would not have happened. Since this is not about privatisation, in 2016 "Zelezara" Smederevo was not privatized, it was practically sold, as they would say in the jargon, for doboš. The property was sold, a company with all debts of "Zelezara" d.o.o. and with some rights, of course, and among other things, this service remains owned by the Republic of Serbia. When a company's bankruptcy is sold, debts, claims go through a bankruptcy court, a sale price enters the bankruptcy, and trustees find it. How fair is that? Of course not, but it's a legal path. When the acrobatics are made in 2016, then the government's company, where the government owns 100%, "Zelezara d.o.o.", with all the losses, and the Chinese partner, once again, bought only property. I mean, once again, not wanting to politicize or act in a way that I am deeply convinced is not good for this country's interests, that we speak today, and can speak, believe me, it's very easy to accuse the current government of the way, the privatisation, the amount and everything else. It's not good, not because of the ruling coalition that did it either because of the government, but because of foreign partners. So it's good, and we'll back it up, because this is less damage. So we give legal certainty, what's the point of the problem, this is one of, of course, not the biggest. One of the main issues is the lack of legal certainty. Foreign partners, investors fear what will happen tomorrow with the change of government. Does any change in government mean changing the tax policy, investment policy, subsidising those who are interested in this type of aid from the state. What the Assembly must send as a clear message to all investors and domestics, of course, and abroad, is that legal certainty exists in this country, that institutions are doing their jobs and that the Assembly and MPs are helping, not getting away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3052	Thank you. Now the word is Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3053	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam President, it is not disputed that the issue of service on the lines built by "The Iron" in earlier years should be addressed and that the issue should be regulated as part of the arrangement with the new buyer. However, the way it is done, starting with the law that was passed in February, it seems to me, in 2016, is quite controversial. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives sent the Assembly a proposal to adopt authentic interpretation in the manner explained by Mr. President of the Committee and the Committee discussed the issue last week, and the initiative tabled by Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic seems to be dating somewhere since June of the month, and the Committee has arrived as an addition to the agenda. I don't know why it was a supplement if, I suppose, Mr. Martinovic was on time or when it was necessary to submit it as early as June. In order for this issue to come in the same way as on the Parliament's agenda, although the Committee considered it last week and gave a positive opinion, of course with an argument that does not go into favour, as the Committee president explained. This proposal follows that the law adopted in February 2016, i.e. its Article 6, which reads – On land above groundwaters, whose investor is "Zelezara", "Zelezara" has the right to pass and/or access to the obligation of the owners, i.e. the holder of that land, not to interfere with the use and maintenance of this facility, or water. So, this submitted proposal suggests that the decision be interpreted, or I can say understood, so that the right of office is established, as the proposal says: "the current owner". In the law, we have defined for whose benefit, for the benefit of the Ironworks, this right of service is established, and in the proposal for authentic interpretation we are talking about the current owner. It could also indicate who is the current owner, though it is known. It's about the lines built by "The Iron" in the past few years. With the planning and transfer of ownership on the lines, which I suppose is not disputed, it is wanted to be automatically, not enough to pass the law, but to this authentic interpretation, to the current owner, as the proposal for authentic interpretation, also conveys the right of service within the meaning of Article 6. The law, without the obligation to regulate the right of office specifically by legal work and without obligation to enroll in the immovableity cadasar. Therefore, the service does not produce the fact by force of the law as planned and expected in February 2016, in order to do so by law, but will now be established in favour of the new buyer by force of this authentic interpretation. For reasons, there are doubts, and what the president of the Committee was saying, when signing the contract, therefore, is inconceivable in the conversation with the buyer when signing the contract, where the buyer, as far as I understand it, expressed doubts about the legal certainty that the state as a seller provides him with the so-constituted law of the service of the "Strellery" of February 2016. The argument states that the opposite interpretation would lead to absurdity, that the buyer would acquire property without automatically moving on to it the right of service. Well, he can't go over his service automatically, because it wasn't done properly with "The Iron". A particular confusion is said to be the fact that the right of service in favour of "The Irons" has been established in law. So that's what the buyer points to. And the legislator's intention wasn't, therefore, that's now one pronunciation to say, from a time distance of half a year and more compared to February when the law was passed, that the legislator didn't want to create absurdities, but to solve property legal relations in a coherent way. Well, I'm sorry, I can't agree with that, because the law itself is absurd, and this interpretation proposed by the Assembly to adopt, and the only consistent solution to these issues is a solution based on the law on the foundation of a legal relationship that is really clear here. The conclusion of the reasoning of the proposed authentic interpretation states that the law itself establishes the entry in the public books, i.e. a booklet and that no enrolment is required on the basis of legal work. I really don't know why so many exceptions in a job like this. I believe that this is a precedent and that it is in some way a maneuver of the executive authority, which at the moment, because of the lack of law proposed by the 2016 Assembly, is now a legislative authority, i.e. the Serbian Parliament, to strengthen or instill trust in the legal certainty of the customer provided by the state in this way. It is clear that the land suffers a burden, it is a use regime for the needs of maintenance and water management, and therefore "The Irons" has consumed it even in fact. The question arises as to why "The Iron" did not do so earlier in the way the Law on Fundamentals of Property Legal Relations provides. So, as the law itself states, it wanted to avoid or play, if I may say, the Law on Planning and Construction and, of course, that some factical service, if I may say so, is legalized or consolidated by the law adopted in February of the month, which, of course, was not enough, confirms the fact that today we are bringing authentic interpretation. At the same time, the legislator failed to regulate the issue in a consistent and general manner and, of course, when the buyer saw that in an unusual way, the adoption of a law specific to the establishment of the right of service in favour of the "Securators", he expressed doubts as to why the law does not now contain the name of the company that bought the "Steeler" from the state. To avoid amending the law, the name of a new buyer or the current one, instead of "The Irons", has now become the name of a new buyer or, as it is said, resorted to the adoption of authentic interpretation. The question arises, whose land, under which or over which are the waters we speak, and how "The Iron" used this land in the previous period. Furthermore, why is this question not resolved at least after the Americans left and what the administration did then, or the management that we've heard a lot about, about receiving and the poor results of their work. The law on the basis of property legal relations is very clear. In Article 51, it states that real service is established by legal work, by decision of the state authority and by maintenance, and in Article 52, that real service is obtained by entering a public book or by other appropriate means by means of legal work. So these standards are imperative by character, and in this way none of the conditions and the Law on Fundamentals of Property Legal Relations are met. So, we don't have a base, and we don't have an entry as far as I can see, we're running away from it. I understand the purpose of this maneuver, therefore, of what is not provided by the law is now trying to do this interpretation and it is clear to me that in this way it pleases the customer and that in the first place they are employed, and that the city of Smederevo, and it seems to me that the government is largely bound to this sale and that it is important in one way to provide what could not have been provided in one system way. With the secret contract with Americans, along with the February month law, which establishes the right of service of the Irons, with a secret contract with the current buyer, with authentic interpretation now, all of this is one confirmation of just legal uncertainty and I don't think it can be provided or compensated in this way. In this way, a view of legal certainty is created, and this interpretation is certainly, as well as the laws, not above the Constitution and the law, and it is also subject to assessment. Therefore, if at some point they are evaluated and it turns out that it does not comply with the Constitution and the law, it will certainly not be a confirmation of the legal certainty of the buyer, or investor. On the other hand, the Assembly is at risk, perhaps in this conference or even in another meeting in the same situation, decides otherwise and thus compromises the legislative body most, and the investor is just confirming the legal uncertainty of our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3054	Thank you. The word is proposed, Mr. Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3055	Thank you, Chairman. Here, in short, I don't want to get into these economic aspects of all this. One of the questions was, is this a joke from a contract or a law? This is the result of unregulated property-legal relations since "Smederevo Iron" was created to this day. When we talk about the bankruptcy sale, before the bankruptcy sale, the bankruptcy manager was obliged to regulate all property-legislative relations that he obviously did not regulate, meaning to enroll all rights in favour of the "Smederevo Irons" before US Steel bought it. I will be free to comment, obviously, that whoever bought it at that time did not care what he was buying, because he did not seem to have any intention of working seriously in the country of Serbia, but that until he finished some of his work just so long. As for comments related to the issue of real service, first, the text of authentic interpretation does not say – the current owner, but writes – to the once-in-a-time owner, the once-in-a-lifetime owner of the water, and that is the term the law knows. Real service, I'll remind you, you're right, Article 51. The Law on property legal relations has been defined to be based on legal work, decision by a state body or maintenance. We have a service here, based on a decision by the state authority through the law, and a Article 52 you called on says that, on the basis of legal work, real service is obtained by enrolling in a public book. So, when it comes to legal work, the second element is to enroll in a public book. Obviously, legal certainty for the once-in-a-lifetime owner, that he will have the right to serve, is only through this supplement of authentic interpretation and what was obviously and necessary to insist on. It appeared during the conversation, as much as I would like to comment. This is a purely legal part, as it is in a situation like this, if we want the legal security of the once-in-a-lifetime owner of the property, then this is the only way for it to be protected properly, as today's "Smederevo Iron" is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3056	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Nenad Milic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3057	Democracy at work. I don't know, I think it's hard to figure out why anyone bought it. I think they're all buying, whether they're Americans, Russians, Chinese, Serbs, Albanians buying something to benefit themselves. Anyone who thinks there's some other interest in buying anything or is a socialist or is deeply mistaken. As far as buying is concerned, I've talked about it, buying a company in bankruptcy means buying a whole company, rights and obligations, arranged, unsettled, and paying for it. In the case of the purchase of the property, which happened with "Hestilla", only property was sold, all rights, all obligations remained on "Zelezari d.o.o." and that is the problem we came here for. Of course, there are a lot of loose ends in every privatisation, in every bankruptcy, if you want, here in Savamala, in every project that's a little bigger, which affects more than one plot or some major business, there are a thousand property-legal relations. It's been the problem of this country for years and, unfortunately, it won't be resolved soon. But we avoid most of the problems by respecting the law. We respect the law by the company that meets the conditions for bankruptcy goes into bankruptcy, which the law applies and the court applies the law as it has to. An investor, who wants to buy with those rights and obligations unsettled enters the risk consciously. The buyer of the property did not enter any risk or right. He's justifiably looking for what he bought, what's logical. That's why I said we'd back it up. So at least I think it was incorrect for you to say that someone bought it and didn't do anything. Ten years was the biggest...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3058	Thank you. Replication is two minutes. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3059	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The theme of Smederjevska "Gelezzare" would certainly be interesting if we were to absorb it from the Titoist Yugoslavia and the brilliant communist creative solutions where a certain industrial facility should be set up that absolutely makes no sense or sense to find it, so through all these purchases from the Dossovian times, to this latest one. But for me, personally, that is, the most interesting thing for Dveri is that on this case we show our authentic interpretation of foreign investors. Because it wouldn't be right to say, as you can sometimes hear, that the Dwarves are against all foreign investors. It's just that it's not true. Courts are only against bad foreign investors, i.e. foreign investors working directly at the expense of our domestic economic interests. This is why it's a good opportunity to show that difference what we, from our point of view, see our economic policy the difference between good and bad foreign investor. The general problem I see in this whole problem is that otherwise the Serbian state's service to foreign investment and foreign investor as some God-given solution that will solve all our problems in the economy. We should never have approached any alternative economic solutions that the Davers spoke of more than once, counting on the primary emissions and the strictly controlled printing of state money invested in domestic production, the launch of large infrastructure works, mass employment and the return of all these funds through taxes and contributions to the state budget. For example, no government has had the strength to define one of these classic economic, monetary, financial measures to launch domestic production. There has always been a line of less resistance, or a line of propaganda that foreign investments are the solution to all our problems. There are therefore good and bad foreign investors, good and bad foreign investments. Let's see the difference between them. We in Serbia have started to see foreign investors as some protected white bears that no one can question. They worship them when they come here to Serbia, all of them, from the president of the state to the president of the municipalities. They open the door, kneel before them. They give all the conditions for investment, give them free building land, free electricity, water and gas connections, are released from taxes, a number of other incentive measures are given to them, to those famous ten, fifteen or as many thousands of euros per new job. Often we actually look like someone who supports rich foreign companies that come to Serbia and in some ways we finance them from our money from our budget. What's our interest in all this? Do our domestic businessmen have such a chance as does a foreign investor in Serbia? Where did they get free building land? Where did they get a free connection for electricity, water or gas? When did they get a tax exemption? When did they get some of this important, big and big incentives for employment? Therefore, the unfair treatment of a foreign and domestic investor. If I didn't talk here about investors from the division, about our Serbs from the division who and how they have serious capital, but were never treated as serious investors who could possibly get some of the incentives these, say, so-called foreign investors get. What kind of foreign investor is it for us from Dvora? It's the one who comes here, not to develop our domestic economy or to look at our domestic interest, he's selfishly looking at his own interest in profit. He comes here to take over the monopoly on our market, to kill the competition of the domestic producer, to tie up his suppliers from his countries of origin from which that foreign investor comes, and if he can and if this country allows it, unfortunately often allows, to give as much wages as possible, not to give any labour rights and to make as much profit from our country as possible. His interest is clear, but it is not of domestic interest, Serbian in all of this is visible. Especially when you consider that, in our opinion, the maximum final abuse of foreign investors' stories, and we have discovered it on several examples in southern Serbia, and we now have judicial epilogues that we were right, which is that certain foreign investors are so bold that they fakely portray their business in Serbia with a loss, so that they do not even pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia, but by different accounting and other machinations, their profits practically amount to abroad via their mothers' companies without leaving anything here for tax. However, there are also good investors. An example of a Chinese investor is an example that we support. When do we have an interest in bringing in a foreign investor? Then when we don't have that technology, then when we can't compete in that branch, then when we don't have our own domestic production in that area, then when we don't have the capacity to develop that sphere of economy. Where we have a domestic producer, where we have capacities, where we have a perspective, where we can develop, that's where we don't bring a foreign investor, because he's going to kill our domestic competition. We're bringing where we don't have modern technology and where we can't develop in that sphere in the right way. This good foreign investor binds our domestic suppliers, not just its suppliers from the country of origin of that investor. This good investor should regulate fair remuneration of employees, respect workers' rights, respect labour inspection orders, protect the environment and other things that should be respected by every businessman in this country, not just domestic. That's what we most often point to, double standards towards foreign and domestic investors. Domestic investors are being sent labour inspection, environmental inspection, this and that. A foreign investor is, I'd say, not under the same amount as our inspection bodies, like our domestic businessmen. So, in all of this, of course, when it comes to investment there are also policies, or geopoliticals. We personally believe that our proven friends from the West are not always ideal foreign investors in our country. Whenever an IMF comes here, when a World Bank comes, when it comes I don't know who, usually along with various economic issues, political demands are made. We don't have that problem with our true friends from the east, not this fake West who bombed us, who take away Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Our true friends from the east never politically blackmail us. We're really talking to them about economics. Do we always make the best arrangements, is that always in our interest, and should be in mutual interest? That's the question. We can also discuss on this case "Smederevo" and on any other case, but the fact is that Russian and Chinese investments, if we can say so at all, are, for us and our country more well-intentioned than Western, well-intentioned always, because they simply do not drag any political pressure behind them. Western institutions, like the IMF or I don't know any other international monetary institutions, always associate certain political pressures, blackmail or other tasks – you have to increase the price of electricity, you have to sell Telecom, you have to do this, you have to do that. Why would they tell us what we have to do in our own country? We have a clear interest here, an interest is mutual, for a Chinese partner to enter seriously the European market that interests him, to continue in one of the extremely important strategic economic and global branches, to be one of the leaders, and our interest is indeed to solve one issue that really was not easy for any government, and it will not be easy to solve, the issue of a huge number of workers working there, the issue of problems which would affect the closure of such a strategic enterprise on its suppliers, the companies that work in that branch in Serbia, etc., etc. So this is, in our opinion, the good example from which it is seen that a foreign investor should be welcome in Serbia, and I think that from earlier on we could have a little more hearing for Russian and Chinese investments, not thinking constantly, even to this day often, that the West is the only foreign world. The West isn't the only side of the world. There is an East, North and South, and it seems to me that this new multilateral world, which was born several years ago, finally brought to Serbia and the Serbian people some new chances, that we no longer have to depend on blackmail, pressure, economic conditions from the West, but that on some other, especially the eastern side of the world, we can find partners so that our people and states can survive. Such, to put it this way, a geopolitical orientation, which not only looks west, but looks at where our national, state, economic interests are, so any foreign world is going to be, is something that will always have the support of the Serbian Dvori Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3060	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have listened to one of the yellow versions of the party of the former regime, which listed the debts of the Irons, the debts of management, etc. Memory is a strange thing. When you remember, then you have to remember a little longer. Since I am a few terms of office, I will make sure that my memory reaches a little further than 2013, 2014, so let's remember, let's say, in 2003 and "Sablje", time "Sablje", long, sharp, but there is a privatisation of "Sartida". The debt the state took over, of course, the penetrating cheeks wouldn't admit, was a billion and seven hundred million dollars. So many states took over, removing all the mortgages, moving, and Mr. Arsic knows, the local jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce from Pozharec to Belgrade to rush in Belgrade, as he called himself, Kolesar, in the cabinet of the late prime minister, who had a completely different idea with "The Iron", I must say, because the debts to the Germans were enormous, and he meant something to compensate. Look at the miracles, just when he died, the mourned cabinet sold in the way I described, taking down mortgages to creditors, against the law, etc. Out of $1.7 billion, mortgages have been taken off. Was that judge's name Kljajevic? And in this way, the obligations of our poor taxpayers, who are otherwise 1990s for sanctions, and that was the liquid, you know, democracy can't be an imperial import product, which I found, sanctions, bombings, poor uranium, etc., then moves into the drowning of tanks. Ideally, we're going to sell "The Iron" for 26 million while on citizens, like dead mare, $1.7 billion and so "The Irons" changed the owner and so the Americans were able to melt our tanks and know exactly how much they melted. It was about that time that Frank Miller was speaking to Bislim on the hands of the president of one of the parties, of the yellow versions of the former regime's parties, of thirty-seven thousand euros. If I were him, I'd carry my hand in the safe. I don't think it's moral, and it's dangerous. So when I said that in 2013, Srdjan Milivojevic stood up and said that I had violated the security of the gentleman as he had already called himself, then the defence minister in the former regime, because I had declared the value of his watches. Here, now they claim his party colleagues that it was true, and I believe it's true. Look at the wonders, the tanks were soaked, "The Iron" was exploited and then at a phone session, or what was it called, Mr. Martinovic you know, SMS sessions, what was it called when you were texting? What, are you willing to share the money we borrowed so that every party will be pleased? Then you decided to buy text messages, and that's where you did the job of the century, "Smederevo Iron" for one euro or one dollar. Was it a dollar or a euro? Sin on my soul, let it be the euro, that they've got more. But, behold, miracles are bought by a private company with a debt of 600m euros. Yeah. So when some talk about the debts of the Irons, they need to know about these debts that when you add up they come in over two billion euros and I can say freely that there is no insult. That when some members of the former regime, older or younger, when they talk about the debts of "The Irons" they need to think carefully about how thick the skin is on those cheeks when you can make such claims. For one dollar you bought or the euro, 600m euros in debt, which are of course served by future governments. It wasn't "The Iron" that was lucky, so apparently Joseph Broz was passing by and he asked, "What's going on here, what's going on here?" And they say, there are grapes, and he says, "Your mother of God, iron will be Iron." That's what they say it was made. While "The Iron" carries everything else she wore and the state that we found completely broken, politically decapitated, militaryly powerless, economically devastated, socially unsustainable, house of naked walls as well as "The Iron". It should be made in the interest of this city and the citizens who work there and live. I think the Chinese are the right move and I welcome all those who united around that investment and I'm glad they did. But I have to say that as someone who looks at the east with a higher heart, and to the west with a little bit more careful eyes, I have to say that without the West, there would be no east, or that it would be difficult for someone from the east to invest in "The Iron" if it wasn't for the claim that through the accession period, even now they would expand their functioning and the market in the EU. EU supporters, exclusively, have not proven to me that breaking up with Russia is an economic good for this country. Also, supporters of the East have not exclusively proved to me that breaking up with the EU, which is two-thirds of the markets, is a chance for investments from the east, from Russia and China. They have not proved to me that breaking up with the EU can be an economic and social good for these citizens. I think the truth is somewhere in between, I think we should support this authentic interpretation, that there's nothing to be complicated about investment, they're necessary, they're welcome. Money, these guys didn't know, people know it, money makes money. You can't live off the man in charge forever, it has its limits. It has its limits in the amount of capital you have. By then someone will lend you money, then they won't. During their rule, here they now honor "The Iron", two percentages of some billion euros have accumulated debt, during their rule living off the man in charge, not the one who earned it. The main product of the country was the government bond, the debt. Those acts and misdeeds will try to pay off future generations. I can't approve of their respect for that part of the opposition, but you know who I'm talking about, every honor to these hosts, people who want to understand that money is a slave, that money is a means to exchange goods, and that we have to produce goods, that the coverage of exports has grown from 54 to 78, that Mr. Arsic knows a little better. That we in export must find our chance to serve our debts, that we must not fight with the East or the West, but that we should not share, because my favorite saying "or we will succeed together, times are difficult or we will fail divided". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3062	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3063	Are you giving me a word or a replica? Did he say yes? Okay, I'll just say it in the beginning so we don't forget it. Since we are constantly hearing and talking about "The Irons", I will naturally turn to authentic interpretation, who knows which way the the thesis is heard that the melting streams are in "Smederevo Irons". I think that probably all of Smederevo, and also part of Serbia knows that this is not technologically possible, that tanks are made of alloy steel. Ask anyone in the army, ask anyone who knows anything about it, and then speak in such a way as to melt tanks in “Smederevo Irons. ” "Smederevo" works exclusively with carbon steel, and that's something you could read in the text five days ago in "Politice". Inform yourself of that before you get up and say something about this speaker that is absolutely false. The authentic interpretation, here's one significant point, I think it's more than significant and I really have questions for an authorised promoter. Why did we even need this item of the agenda in the Assembly, since this kind of property rights can be resolved through a contractual obligation and since "Smederevo Iron" is listed as the owner of land and infrastructure, which is why the only ordinary contract does not solve it? It's a question of all of us. It's a very simple question. We may not be such top experts, but since I didn't get the answers in the opening statement, what kind of infrastructure is this all about? Is that part of the municipal infrastructure, which is usually the owner of local self-government, like plumbing, sewers? Is that part of the power grid, which is the most common owner of the EPS? Is it part of the telecommunications infrastructure owned by Telecom Serbia most often as a state system? Is it a pipeline, what is the owner of "Srbigas" etc? It's mostly state-owned public enterprises and it's all state-owned property. This is the question why are we going to vote for this adoption of authentic interpretation, and how are we going to influence the property of all these public systems with our own voice? Do we have the right to raise our hand here for such a solution without actually knowing what kind of infrastructure and what kind of infrastructure we're assigning to the management of the new owner? Once again, I say, every new owner, of course, and new owner of the Irons will have the support of the DS for raising its capacities and managing this system and conquering new markets, but we as responsible people in the Assembly need to get information on what kind of infrastructure is it? I am now asking, because I have an open suspicion – which is why it is not solved by an ordinary contract, but now we are now going to the Assembly with insufficient information, so that we can decide here? It's not a simple solution, first of all, the answer is what you said and said, and that's unsettled property relations. You were also talking about the past and it was the simplest cover now of this whole range of infrastructures whose owners are different, or perhaps part of that infrastructure was signed up under the new Public Property Act, but it was not possible to resolve it simply and quickly enough, as the responsibilities were assumed in the contract with the new buyer. Here, I suppose now, and not to assume and not to have a dilemma in the vote, because I would like the Democratic Party and all MPs to vote for one such solution, but on the condition that we get the full information that infrastructure is doing, and what consequences will our public enterprises suffer, if we partially reduce their value by subtracting part by part of the infrastructure? We have an open suspicion because we didn't get the exact information that this is about. I will remind you, since it is often said about the past, that on 20 September 2011, a set of laws was adopted here in this room, which are: the Law on Public Property, the Law on concessions and private public partnership and the Law on Restitution, which were meant to provide a comprehensive reform of property relations in the Republic of Serbia. Because this set of laws can indeed open up opportunities for future development, and local self-government, and public enterprises, but provided that all assets that, apart from trade capital, are recorded as one significant basis for both local and economic development, but also for the development of all these public enterprises. So obviously that wasn't working effectively enough. And that responsibility had this previous, previous, previous government, so that's before this, three last, from September 20th to mid-May 2012, that's about six months. There was something going on here. Whether it worked fast enough, efficient enough, that's the question, here, can be criticised for those six months, but it's been five years when, behold, it's been so much done that we now come into a situation that we give authentic interpretations because, in addition to such an important contract with a foreign partner in Jelizara Smederevo, there are no clearly defined property relations and no clearly defined assets and no transfer or entry of property. I'm assuming all that now and I'm asking this in the form of a question for you. I hope you'll give the right answer, so we can decide on it comprehensively now, not knowing what we're doing. In 2015, since the new management, therefore, we have already mentioned Peter Kamaris, who promised in the government's direct transfer that by the end of the year, in six months, he will raise the iron on his feet, that he will make it profitable, that he will raise the capacity, however, what have we got? We got even bigger losses, 39% more losses than in the previous year, of some 140m euros in losses, which can be checked on the APR, these are affordable data to all of us, so the total debt that amounted to around 260m euros in 2015, huge debts that are shown through credible data. What we got -- 35 managers, mostly relatives, the most important families, who were brought in with those rescuers and a great friend of the prime minister, which we heard clearly in some public appearances, and then we came into a situation where we decided here for an emergency procedure on authentic interpretation, because they, in addition to all these jobs, had no opportunity, no willingness, no knowledge, to arrange property relations and to prepare a factory for sale. This is an absurd situation where we all find ourselves and I think MPs, and above all, the public and citizens of Serbia, expect that kind of response from the legislator of a law like this that should be, or authentic interpretation, which should be adopted here. I repeat again, and that is also the form of the proposal. At this sensitive moment, when we spoke, and I do not want to abuse this time, on the subject of property and Telekom and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, but also in Serbia, through these forms of future sales, it is necessary to approach the realisation and application of the Law on Public Property more quickly, and in 2014, two years ago, when we again passed the Law on the postponement of the Law that was passed for three years. I don't know if you remember, but we were sitting here, in this room, when we talked about applying the Law on Public Property and when we were against the extension of the deadline, because we're going to come back to a situation where we're going to make a new decision to extend the deadline because, here, we're just a little bit more, we're going to have these new years, so three plus three years, a total of six years, to come back to 2017, when we're probably going to decide to extend the deadline here again, because we haven't been able to enter public property into our public systems and local self-government. It is an invitation for all of us to work more efficiently on this, and I once again ask you a question – a little more precise information about what particular property is involved, what type of infrastructure, and who is the holder of the property rights over that infrastructure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3064	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3065	I will remind you that it is an interpretation of a member of the Law that has a very clear name – Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel “Gelezara Smederevo” D.o.o. Brown. The law itself makes it very clear that it is exclusively the property of "Smederevo Irons", and regarding Article 6(1) whose authentic interpretation is proposed here. It is about the lines on which the investor was exclusively and only "Smederevo Irons", no one else. "Smederevo" is based on this law, I will read only one part of the text, to clarify, and it will be clear to all why the law had to solve this issue, because the complex "Smederevo Irons" and every detail relating to the "Smederevo Irons" itself is so wide, and with the legacy that exists for the last 40-50 years, and even longer, there was obviously no other way to resolve this in a more legal, legal, fairer, fairer and fairer way. Article 7 states that "the property rights, in accordance with this law, are acquired on buildings built without a building permit, buildings built on the basis of a building permit issued from which it was deviated during the construction, buildings for which a building permit was issued but not issued, on the lines built without a building permit and on the lines built on the basis of a building permit which was deviated in the course of construction", etc., etc. I'm undermining, we can't say right now it's a passing steamer, for example, I'm not a technical face and I make that kind of specification. The law itself made it very clear how it will be determined and determined exactly what is all the property to which the investor “Smederevo” is, and this law confirmed, the law of “Smederevo Irons” to the right of service, passage and access, with the obligation of the holder or owner of the land, not to interfere with the use and maintenance of that facility, i.e. water. So, it's exclusively about the lines that are necessary for the operation and operation of "Smederevo Ironworks", on which she was an investor, which she owns, based on this law. This service has been established under the law. Legal services are not required to be included in former land books or in a list of catastra’s immovableities, such as today’s situation, in order to exist. When it comes to the legal work of other species, they must be entered in order to be properly established. I wouldn't really be here right now if I were to give a lecture in all ways, I don't think there's a need for it, it can get a right of service, but in order for the customer to really be protected, which, even if it does come up here and it really does stand "the customer of the day" of these lines that are necessary for work, means, not the current buyer, it might be easier to write even his name, but no, that classic legal formulation, the once-in-a-day owner of these lines, the right of service, is based on this law. It is clear that the full intensity of the adoption of this law is that the property of Želizara Smeder's right of office, all those things that are regulated by the law, indeed once and for all, is properly formed. In order to remove any possible dilemmas, to enjoy the same protection that Jelizar Smederevo enjoys as well, under this law, and which was obviously an intensity because it is quite logical that if you transfer something to someone, transfer property rights, transfer rights and benefits to them, transfer rights and services, which otherwise knows to be restrictively right in some other situations, which can even be abolished if the need for it ceases, is something that arises from the very way the law is passed and suggests that it should be provided. In order to remove any dilemma in the possible application, in the protection of the land owner or land user, this authentic interpretation can only contribute, little or no less, nor limit property, to any service of any kind. I hope I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3066	Thank you. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3067	The agenda point is authentic interpretation, but correctness should be said – authentic interpretation should be given to the one who passed a regulation. I did not participate in the adoption of this regulation, nor did the SRS participate, and then authentic interpretation should be interpreted as our contribution to the legislative body, or the National Assembly, to interpret what the Assembly voted and wrote in its law. It's the first finding I think is important. Another important finding is that authentic interpretation should express the will of the legislator, not the personal one, but the material will. In order to achieve this material will, it is necessary to take the bill when it was in the procedure, an explanation that was at the time and to collect all discussions on this bill and particularly on Article 6 at the time of the proposal of the law. Then when it is put on the table and compared, it can be concluded what was the right will of the legislator or the majority who voted the law. Unfortunately, this road cannot be respected in the National Assembly, this road is not even respected when it comes to assessing the constitutionality of a law because the Constitutional Court also faces a major problem when it appreciates the constitutionality of a law. Why? Because in the original materials of the National Assembly, it means transcripts, stenographic notes, amendments, explanations, etc. It is hardly possible to come to what motivated some to vote for a solution and how a final version of a member of the law occurred. When an authentic interpretation of a regulation is required, it is always accessible restrictively. Why restrictively? Well, because there's a possibility of abuse of authentic interpretation. I must say, in the practice of the National Assembly, if you look at the last 60 years, rarely when authentic interpretation was given, however, it was sometimes done by the Legislative Committee in a slightly different way, but rarely approached. Why has it rarely been accessed? Well, for one simple reason, it is prescribed that the space of time will live up to and possibly practice in the application of that law, some solutions and some court practice. In this law, it is obviously not possible because, by definition, this is a special law or, to be precise, a special case law. In order not to confuse the public with this, I am expressing the view of the SRS that this item of the agenda should be withdrawn, i.e. to skip. This proposal should be withdrawn because nothing is obtained with this authentic interpretation, no contribution is made either to legal science or to any clarification because the general legal principles which apply, above all, property rights, define this situation which is covered by Article 6(1) of this Act. But if this interpretation is also proposed as authentic, I think we'll have more damage. Why? Because our case-law can take this interpretation so that it doesn't interpret it as a therapeutic specialty, but for all situations when there's a misunderstanding caused by what's real service, what's personal service, what's agreed service, what's legal service, and especially what's real burdens. Literally speaking, Article 6 opens up a complete problem of these legal principles, and this happened first because when a special law is made, then it goes with a restrictive approach, that only what is an exception enters into the law, that those general legal principles are not disturbed. Apparently, some amateur wrote here, so he wanted to contribute to the development of legal science, real law, so he got in the way of what was real, what was personal service, what was agreed service and what were so-called. real burdens. Indeed, in Article 6(1), you have all these institutes and nothing is clear. But first of all, I have to say that I don't understand it at all, I haven't heard who opened the question of the inconceivable application of this law. I haven't heard that one before. I don't know, the Ministry of Finance, some future buyer, cadastre, the town of Smederevo, the union. I have not yet heard who opened this topic and to say – there is a misunderstanding. That's where you should be careful. Here, I don't bounce much from the subject. I personally know that there is also something "unsupervised", but it is not a legal nature. She's inconceivable because a woman in a catastro in Chačka is conducting some of her own will and she says, "I don't accept any decision of the Supreme Cassation Court, not a single court." And it's constantly spinning from cataster to ministry. Now, after six times back, there's now a administrative court. And the appeals and lawsuits, hiding that friend of hers, were written by almost all the judges and all the prosecutors in Chačka, because one woman in the catastrus became a greater force. Now someone would say there's some law to be interpreted. There's no need to interpret the law. There is a similar situation in Article 6. I don't think authentic interpretation is necessary at all. Why isn't that necessary? I'll take my turn. First, the law says it has a title – Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, objective and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel “Gelezara” Smederevo d.o.o. Belgrade. In the first article, someone remembered that there was a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so the subject of the law was defined differently. Now listen to this game of words, this is the contribution to the development of rights, says – This law regulates the conditions and the way in which a company is built, and now "The Irons" acquires the right of property on buildings, beware, on objects defined in terms of the law governing the planning and construction of land, means only an object within the meaning of the Planning Act, and this is the immovable property of the facility, and the land on which these buildings are built as well as on undeveloped land. From this formulation you get the impression that immovableity is objects. Item 2 says – This law regulates the conditions and the way in which "the iron" acquires the right of ownership on the lines, these are already installations. The right of property on the lines is larger installations. And when you just imagine that it's all over, then the next members of this bill mention the cadastrian plots, but it's not about land, it's about to figure out what kind of cadastrian plot to apply to land, so here they've opened up the property rights issue on land. The issue is regulated by several other members. Well, there is even a fee to be paid, and even a commitment to the town of Smederev in terms of turning agricultural land into building land. It's all about someone, some high speed, etc., and then we get to article 6 which essentially needs to reflect the right of service. The right of service by definition implies that there is a particularly good and serviceable good, it doesn't matter who owns what good. And it doesn't matter who owns it, when it comes to real service. And here's the story, so at one point, "The Irons" is treated as d.o.o. The legal person, at one point “The Irons” is treated as an object of industry, as a building facility and with this interpretation goes further and someone who understands these things a little bit – and what do we need an interpretation for? When the very logic of a serviceable and privileged good regulates all this. Then it goes one step further, and it is said – the law of constitutional service has some advantage, etc. Well, all the offices are signed in, except there's one basis for signing a contract with a contract and the law. The law replaces the contract, and every official one has to be entered into the catastro, because it's a public register, so that the third party knows what's what. So this is about someone making unnecessary confusion in their head, not the law. The law has some of its shortcomings, but the general legal principles define this situation and find the right solutions to this. Imagine what they opened up as a problem? Well, Telecom, so city heat, water and sewerage, so thousands of kilometers of water exists underground, and that's so-called. a real burden. Passing through other people's land, the expropriation process resolved the compensation when it was built, placed, when it was well finished, the owner of the land still suffered the burden. In what way? It can't drill deeper than 60 centimeters, so it doesn't cancel those lines, etc. He is obliged to allow intervention when something breaks here, that the one who comes, the one who does the intervention, must pay for the subsequent damage, these are the general legal principles that exist. There's no need to interpret. Anyone will tell you, it exists, and here it insists especially on interpretation. I get the impression that someone deliberately set this topic at a time when the theme "Trepce" is being opened in another way, but it's somewhat similar there. Someone made a auto goal, not to those who are in power, they are prone to auto goals, but this is an auto goal for Serbia's people. You've passed a special law to draw on that investor, you've passed that law, and then you say, well, we have to meet, but we're not changing the law, we're going to give authentic interpretation. Well, as far as procedures are concerned in the National Assembly, it is almost identical when it comes to amending the law and when it comes to the adoption of authentic interpretation. I don't know who needed this media noise about this. Article 6 is very clear, there is no need for any authentic interpretation, a team before we are now creating an interpretation. By the definition of authentic interpretation means that we say what existed when the law was passed, then there was nothing. We are now building on this and we say it should be interpreted in such a way as to interpret it in accordance with the general legal principle of property law and real rights that have been in force in Serbia for years. He says there's been some kind of misunderstanding. Who could have made a misunderstanding? To whom? As far as I can tell, there's the biggest misunderstanding in law enforcement. There's no question about the author of the law. There's a songwriter. Now that you've opened that topic, what do I do to you, that's right, this law I have to tell you, it doesn't prescribe terms, it doesn't prescribe the way it's listed in the text and in the title of this law. Here it contains provisions that speak of it, this law is passed, this law is given and so on. I'm not getting into it, it's most of the time decided, I'm just sticking to authentic interpretation. So the logic of real law, the logic of the right of service and the logic of the rights of real burdens means both advantageous and serviceable good. Serving well must suffer certain burdens for the benefit and use of the beneficial good. It's in the domain of real service. It doesn't have any influence on the name or last name, it doesn't bond, it binds to the property, it has the right immovableity. It could be an object. You've opened up the subject of land and object. You have opened up the invariableness of the Public Property Act. You've opened the topic, those provisions that speak of privatization of building land. You've opened many topics completely unnecessary at this point, completely unnecessary. If this was the interest of another contracting party that wanted to buy property, then besides this law, there are other regulations that you had to bear in mind. And I don't want to get into it, I'm just gonna focus on what you put on as a part of the agenda. The proposal for this authentic interpretation, I suggest you pull out of the procedure, let's forget what we talked about. There's no need for this interpretation. It's a valid interpretation by the general regulations that exist. That could be what you say, period. Now that some of the topics are open about "The Iron" and Tito's story is on the move, he said he could make the grapes here, and they interpreted the iron, so they made the iron, they made a little joke to bring it in, and so on. Jelizara is something that exists and existed at the time of sanctions, so it was known, what was then called, the way Matkovic's iron was produced, when the current melted with electricity and so on. A lot of rumors have been made about this “Strenglers. ” However, what you took into the 2016 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that is Article 3. Budget law. Just to remind you, a member of the 3rd law, that Article 3 has 34 pages of text. It's the longest member in history that's ever written. You see, for Jelizara Smederevo, you wrote that, just a moment, a difficult man can manage, indirect obligations, that is, to lead him as an internal debt, so there is a Commercial Bank, a Guarantee Fund of 12.5m euros, which must be paid by 9 October this year. Well, then you have Bank Intez, same for "Zelezar Smederevo", 5m euros, you have the deadline of 19 December 2016, and the same to the Commercial Bank by 11 January 2017 you have to pay another 3m euros. And, there's a special idiotic way of calculating interest three months of euroribor plus 6.75%. Then you have a commitment to the Post Office by 12 January 2017 to 5m euros, so you have at the Post Office a savings account based on guarantees from the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance of the Republic of Serbia, which is also another five million by 2 February 2017. That's what the government has verified and confessed. What does this have to do with co-production related to "Smederevo Iron", we can only guess, doubtful, you know that. But when the property of a legal person is sold, I would draw your attention that the land is in a special legal regime. Objects are also in another legal regime. So I think you should take off this item of the agenda and give up this authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3068	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3069	Thank you. Several times here, the proponent has been asked the question of who are the land owners of which this law will affect. The promoter, I don't know, is either making us unskilled, or he didn't understand the question, so I'm going to have to explain one more time in order to be crystal clear and maybe get an answer from the promoter, and I also think it's important for the citizens of Serbia to understand what this is really about. So here there are three sides to this proposal for authentic interpretation, to which the law applies. One is Železara Smederevo, who owns the property, the other is a buyer, a Chinese company called Hestil Serbia US Steel Doo, which has the founding capital of 24 thousand dinars and which is owned by "The New Silcroud Holding" from Hong Kong. We have a third party, which is the owners, i.e. the holders of some plots of land, through which, where underground waters of “Smederevo Irons” pass, and are concerned with the rights of access and the rights of service around that land over these underground lines. More than once, the question has been asked exactly who this applies to, to get a list of people, because those legal and physical persons from Smederev should know that we are talking about them and about their land to which this service is concerned. One of the big problems with our privatisation, probably the central problem, is the completely unsettled property legal relations, and that's actually the key reason that led to the robbery privatisation that continued to date. Since no government has been able to solve this problem systematically and to get a system solution, here it resorts to these Lex specialis solutions, where for each individual case, a government that is unable to make a system is passing a law that applies only to this particular case. It's an example. "Belgrade on Water", another example is Jelizara, and if the government looks kindly at one of the firms that are in trouble, where we have unresolved property-legal relations and adopts a special law for them, then maybe the situation will be resolved, and for everyone else there are general laws that obviously don't work, because that they function at all would not discuss this. How did we come to be in this situation of “The Irons ”? It was told in April that a rescuer was finally found and that rescuer will now buy "The Iron". Now we finally see here a clear recognition that "The Iron" has not been sold, but that the properties of "The Irons" have been sold, and "The Irons" have left us with tax bonds, citizens of Serbia, with all the debts we will have to pay off. This was also in 2011 in 2012, when a smart decision by the previous government bought "The Iron" for that magical one dollar. By the way, there were some 40m euros in debt that was recovered, and besides, we had a significant settlement of other debts so that "Gelezara" survived. After that, debt began to build up, so, somewhere in 2013, I was looking for the Minister of Industry, and the citizens certainly remember, to make these ID cards, to write down the property, to write down the commitments, to see what was recorded, what wasn't, to get this job done. The incapacitated management not only of the Irons, but also of many other companies, did not want to do so. The government wouldn't support that. I ended up resigning and this is what we have left. Now, let's take a look at how much this irresponsibility has cost us from then to today, to the adoption of this newest law. In 2014, "Zelezara" lost 98m euros. The loss was added to 36m euros in subsidies, so the total loss was 134m euros. In order for Serbian citizens to assess how much money that is, this anti-constitutional retirement totaled some 180m euros per year, or about 20 billion dinars. You see the proportion between these two things. After that, rescue management was brought, which was said to quote the prime minister – you are now in safe hands. That was March 22, 2015. And in those safe hands in 2015, a loss of 142m euros was made. When we add up from this 134, you get over 270 million euros. It's a lot more than it was taken from the pensioners. E, then this Lex specialises in "The Irons" property, where all that "The Irons" couldn't solve for itself, which is to register on the facilities, on the property, to solve the issues of service because some of the waters that are below the ground, which pass under other legal and physical persons couldn't solve this problem, so they thought this Lex specialise would cut it and give all these rights to "The Irons", regardless of which. Is there a platoon under the ground that serves nothing and should not have any service, nor any other rights on it, but rather a dwarve given. There was probably a problem if the Chinese investor wasn't satisfied, so he asked for this authentic interpretation, so they probably think he got some legal certainty. It is, of course, an illusion, explained by previous speakers, that there is no legal certainty, when these general laws do not apply to you, then legal certainty cannot be. No drug specialis like this solves the problem, but the real problem is even bigger. Well, they're trying to make these authentic interpretations actually protect their interests. What was actually supposed to happen at the Ironworks? What we were supposed to do as a state, what the government didn't want to do. This now applies not only to this government, and the previous government, and the previous one, and all the way back to October 5th, and before that, to solve property-legal relations, to resolve property rights, to sign it up and register it, to list the assets of all these companies that we would like to privatise, to write down commitments, to make some financial plan, and then to access privatisation, and to make it so that we have public tenders, where customers come in, and it doesn't matter whether they appear from Russia, China, or from the West, or some domestic investors are supported, let's say, foreign funds. But when you know, or have a clean situation at the firm, you'll get high-quality investors. Of course, none of this has been done, but in one secret agreement a deal was made, which, on top of that, should also be advocating special laws for a special investor. Of course, we have nothing against Chinese investors or Russian investors or investors from the West. However, the problem is with our state and our authority that is unable to impose order, who is unable to get a clean situation in any company that is privatizing, so it has to reach for this Lex specialis law to somehow cut and create at least some kind of legal security inflow. The main reason Serbia is going down is because we don't have a system. This kind of lex specialises laws in fact and says that the state admits it has no system and is unable to establish order. The consequences of this are the most felt in fact by domestic businessmen, domestic, legal and natural persons with complete uncertainty, as well as large serious foreign investors who would invest in the country, such as Serbia, to have clear property relations, clear legal certainty, courts doing their job. Since none of this is there, then we come to situations like this where special laws are made for each individual case. This is your definition of a state that doesn't work, a definition of a state where there is no system in which there is no rule of law. It is not a question of whether to close the Iron or not, but rather to introduce order, to be responsible, to have managers, or to ask them to do the job that is necessary and then to open the investor application procedure to choose the best, but before that, of course, we need to know what we want to achieve at all. We will, of course, be against this law because it is deeply wrong, because this is no way to solve these issues. What the promoter should do is answer our question – do they even know which legal and natural persons will be subject to this law, because it affects their rights, to know exactly which lines are being passed under the land that they have either state or right of ownership, so that all of our citizens know what the Assembly is doing? Otherwise, I'm afraid this law will make an even bigger problem and eventually the burden will have to fall on the back of taxpayers, probably after some elections and after some new government. One more thing that is very important, and it concerns a Chinese investor who has another additional legal uncertainty that nobody seems to have pointed out yet. When you have a company, such as "Zelezara", which has 52 billion dinars of the debt "Zelezara Smederevo" d.o.o., it is about 450m euros, what the government has not said is that taxpayers will have to repay the 52 billion-euro debt. While we have sold the properties of the Irons, it is said of 46m euros, which in the financial reports is 100m for fixed assets and 100m for trade property. When you sell your assets in such a situation and have not yet settled your debts, then the creditors of the “Smederevo Irons” d.o.o. they have the right to request the payment of their claims and the purchaser of this property because they travel together with the property. The only procedure in which property and liabilities can be separated is bankruptcy, and that's not the way you're going. In this process it is possible to make a list of assets, it is a judicial obligation, to make an assessment of the assets and then in a transparent procedure call investors to buy you property. What the Chinese investor entered into with this contract is one situation where the government is trying to simulate a bankruptcy procedure outside the bankruptcy process, to separate property from the obligation, to especially sell property, and especially after that, resuscitate these 450m euros in debt. This is practically a special procedure for you, where bankruptcy will be carried out by the government. The problem is also for employees of the Ironworks. Having not bought "The Iron", "The Iron" will eventually have to be shut down by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that all employees must leave "The Iron" and will have to be employed by the new owner, if he wants them at all, and that is "Hestil Serbia – Iron and Steel". “Smederevo Iron” d.o.o. It will obviously be shut down. Another question that becomes completely open is the question – what else is promised to the investor, whether some subsidies are promised, whether a tax exemption is promised, whether it is negotiated on the price of gas, electricity, the price of rail transport, etc. So we don't have a clear and transparent picture, and that's why we always get in trouble, and we get in trouble for years. The solution to all our problems is in the transparency and setting up of the system. It's obviously something that the government, not only this one, but everything we look at backwards, is not able to do, but it reaches for some Lex specialization solutions. We also think that this proposal for authentic interpretation should be withdrawn and that it should be returned to normal system work on this issue, and these are contracts and a solution to the problem that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3070	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3071	Mr. Radulovic, it has been very pleasant 13 minutes to listen to what you have not done as a minister, to show regret in the end that you have not come to the opportunity to be a bankruptcy manager of "The Iron" Smederevo. If you think that both in one law and in one authentic interpretation someone will count probably tens of thousands of parcels and names or names of owners, or users of these parcels, then I wonder who ever allowed you to conduct bankruptcy, but not to return to that period when you had the opportunity to be a bankruptcy manager. It is absolutely incorrect and untrue that the rights of people, businesses, states, anyone, in any way, are endangering, and refers to those whose land is being passed by the established waters. So it's not about any future platoons, it's certainly not about the lines that have been set up in some recent past. “Smederevo” even without this law, is the right of service over that land, but because of all our long-standing sloppyness, this job of enrolling in ownership rights, enrolling in the right of service and everything else has not been done in time. I can support one of your thesis. I absolutely advocate things being systemically resolved, but the past period has clearly shown that by the time we systemically resolve this, "The Irons" would probably collapse from age to age itself, or debt and minuses would accumulate to that extent so that it would not be more interesting to anyone to buy. The government of the Republic of Serbia was obviously forced to address the issue of property and service by special law or law on special cases. I didn't participate in the work of the Assembly when that law was passed, but I wouldn't be here to give a lecture, because I'm not someone who ever wanted to be a professor, and to explain the ways in which all the rights of service are obtained. I repeat, this interpretation can't be applied to any single case, because this isn't about interpreting the Law on property-legal relations as one of the basic laws, so let's say that it can get some broad application, that someone interprets it in another way. This is an interpretation that applies exclusively to Article 6(1). The law we're talking about today is absolutely not possible to abuse this interpretation anywhere, never in any other way. It is completely understandable and the customer's attitude that he expects with the right to be, the moment he took possession of the lines, protected in the same way as "The Iron" Smederevo. Clearly, that's what the legislator wanted. The only goal of this interpretation is to just ensure that the customer we all hope for and to estimate is someone who will really do well to bring "Smederevo irons to be absolutely sure of what they get from this purchase contract. Other questions you asked, although not mine, I will remind you that Tuesday and Thursday are the days to ask questions, so that those questions you asked at the end of your presentation, take the opportunity tomorrow morning and ask the Serbian government. I believe he'll get a sure enough answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3072	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3073	Thank you. You will all agree that the attempt to insult the MPs shows weakness, so I will not look back on that part. As far as the proposings are concerned, I am glad that you said that there are obviously tens of thousands of parcels and then there are also significant numbers of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as legal persons from the Republic of Serbia, to whom this law certainly affects. You know, if you can't normally enroll in the right of service, so a special law is passed that gives you the right to do so, without even entering into whether these waters are used more, whether they're necessary at all, it affects the value of the land we're talking about. So there's no way you can say the law doesn't affect that. Unfortunately, since citizens probably don't follow properly, they will wake up to it when it happens to them, or when the investor accesss those parcels and they will be surprised, however, the fact is that it doesn't fit the truth. The essential part that you obviously don't see is - to solve this problem and to create a system doesn't take that long, the problem is that no one does anything about it, in 2014 and 2015, as you said, has been two years whole, a loss of 270m euros, nothing on these issues has been done and then you solve things with laws that are specially designed for "The Iron". It is simply deep, wrong and reluctant, of course, not only since 2014, but also long ago, since for years, it seems that it was in the interest, not to solve property-legal issues, we do not solve property issues, but remains stuck in some court proceedings that last years and therefore we have a robbery privatisation that has been carried out practically and that citizens know very well about building land in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3074	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3075	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, I think it's time for us to get back from pulsism to essence, and the bottom line is, what is today's debate on the authentic interpretation of one of the provisions of the law? Here, absolutely no one from the opposition wanted to admit one essential thing, and the essential thing is the following – the Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and water, the economic society for the production and processing of steel “Gelezara Smederevo” d.o.o. Brown. The law came into force and produced legal consequences. Why? Because he had to be brought the way he is. And he had to be brought the way he is because for 15 years, what was solved by this law wasn't solved. For 15 years, the condition of the catastra does not reflect the practical state of the field. Who's to blame? Is this government to blame? Since when does this government work? Fifteen years, so you've been in that government, fifteen years you've had, you're on this side of the opportunity to resolve property-legal relations. Why didn't you solve them? Especially since 2000 and so forth, not to mention that you've brought economy into pre-bank and bankruptcy, but there's something that can't be questioned here either, which is the following facts. It's not an authentic interpretation, as lawyers we don't have to bring, but I'm saying this as a lawyer. Why? Because we know the right and we know the authentic interpretation is essentially not necessary, but it is necessary for those who are interested in or interested in buying or later in the right to dispose of the purchased goods, in a particular case, of the economic operator "The Irons". Who can forbid the possibility of allowing him to interpret and interpret authentically? We absolutely don't. Therefore, it is our obligation to present these authentic interpretations in order to protect the interest not only of the Irons, but of the workers of the Irons. I repeat, as a lawyer, I find it absolutely unnecessary, and I agree with my colleague Krasic, when he presented legal reasons for not requiring authentic interpretation, but citizens are not lawyers. I don't know if they understand us enough. An expert on bankruptcy or bankruptcy experts forgets one fact. It's called "let's go into bankruptcy." It was one of the options, of the modes to solve the issue, so the basic knowledge of bankruptcy implies that by opening up bankruptcy, employees stop being employed. (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: What happened here. That's not true. Absolutely not, and you're wrong. You should know that a large number of employees have now concluded collective agreements with the new owner. He broke up a previous collective contract with "The Iron" and concluded a collective agreement with the new owner. Why? Because he has confidence in how to solve the problem of “The Irons, ” so if employees have confidence in this way of solving why would anyone else doubt? Furthermore, 5,000 employees are currently in the Ironworks, sometimes 10,000. I'm saying, at the moment 5,000 of them, if the government was thinking about what they were thinking about, she was thinking about social status and the existence of employees. I guess it's a priority to protect the overworked and their existence. It's done here. Can anyone question that? I doubt it, but there are no experts in bankruptcy. I think I'm in bankruptcy. I know I'm in business, and I can comment competently enough. In the end, what seems important to me, I mean at the end when I'm only talking about this legal act, to point out for the sake of the citizens, it's absolutely clear here and there are no misunderstandings and unknowns that are literally being imposed. I don't understand that setting at all, that story that's clouding somewhere, that this is how some kind of parallel bankruptcy is conducted. What parallel bankruptcy? Which way, by what law? What kind of way is that? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I will explain. There's no need to explain it to me because I know so much better than you do. Basically, what I want to show you is this. As a lawyer, I must draw attention too much attention to the fact that the need for the adoption of a law on the acquisition of property rights over land, buildings and lines of the company "Zelezara" introduced a new legal category which is not known in the provisions of the Law on the basis of property legal relations, colleague Krasic, which is a legal service. New category. Why the new category? Because the Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations does not know the legal service but knows the service that is being obtained, as it is said here, that we do not give lectures and bring confusion because of the citizens. It is true that they are officially obtained by a legal and business contract, a time-out of 20 years of uninterrupted use and possession and at the end of the decision of the state authority. It's not true that even one of our kind is our decision, the decision of the state authority. It's not true, but it's true that this is a law that involves the law on special cases, i.e. the drug specialis law. It is not the correct observation that this law will create a danger from unequal court practice, that the courts will use this for other cases, they will not. Because the law applies precisely to a specific entity and to a specific legal situation. If it concerns a specific entity and a specific legal situation, then it cannot be used for other situations. So, if we were to demystify some things to get the facts out of this home at least, the truth would come out. There is yet to be said something that should be known to citizens, which is that not only "Hestil", not only the buyer of "The Irons", not only the founder of the right of service, as it is the right of service, but also all the later strikers. Because we “Hestilo” cannot limit the right to be available, it will buy both the water and the “The Iron” and the objects, everything that has already been passed and the authentic interpretation is available. If it's available, it means it can alienate on the third person, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. All these constituencies, regardless of who they are, whether they are Chinese, Russians, French, domestic legal entities, must have legal certainty in that sense and if they are asked to be confirmed with authentic interpretation by what is already in the law, that is, the fact that this burden is passed on on to later sticklers on the service well. So there's no misunderstanding here. The lawyers here, and only the lawyers, can say – we didn't need this, but we need the one to whom authentic interpretation applies. It is necessary that whoever wants to work with the RS government and under the law of the prescribed solutions, regardless of whether it is a legal job or some other kind of acquisition, resolves all property-legal relations that have not been resolved for more than 15 years. Because of all this, and to automatically eliminate, never mention the possibility of bankruptcy again, if we're going to talk about it, let's be open and honest here. So do you think the RS government hasn't even considered introducing bankruptcy with an advanced reorganisation plan? Well, it is. Is that a solution, that you didn't think of, I'm not sure that it is because that pre-prepared reorganisation plan carries certain risks. When they put themselves in line with the risk of such a solution to the situation in "The Irons" and the way implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in any case the citizens of Serbia should support what the RS government proposes. I am absolutely for it, and I believe that anyone who thinks in the direction of interest, as a colleague from the LDP parliamentary group said, will support precisely because of that interest. This interest should be primary and should therefore be supported by this authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. The law we've been talking about for how long, close to two hours. In the end, I don't want to burden myself with legal theory. On behalf of me, as an authorised representative of the SPS Parliamentary Group, I point out that the SPS Parliamentary Group will support such an authentic interpretation. I think that's the only possible solution right now, and if it's practically applied by those that need to be applied, it wasn't necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3076	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3077	Thank you. It's nice to remember in the end that there are some options of reorganisation plans that don't involve firing people. But there's one other thing that, I think, is very important. We need to learn that there's one principle in the economy of opportunity that says that when you spend some money on something, you see if you've spent money well by giving money to something else if you could get a better effect than that. Let me tell you, here we have 270m euros of losses made by the Irons by the government's irresponsible behaviour and management in 2014 and 2015. That's about 50,000 euros per employee. Let's just say it's another thing that might have been done. The third is to lower all taxes and contribute to a certain percentage and that the entire economy gets that incentive. Now that we're talking about what the RS government is just going to have to take over, and unfortunately, all taxpayers, we're talking about 450m euros. That's almost 100,000 euros per employee. This is an opportunity for you to reduce taxes and contributions by 10% for the entire economy in Serbia. This is a complete irresponsibility, a lack of understanding of the problem, and that I know the government wasn't considering anything because when we wanted to do something serious, nothing happened in the government. At the time, Prime Minister Dacic wasn't even doing his job. Tell me a joke, some joke, and that was it. So whenever something is seriously done, it's actually stopped. We need a serious analysis here. You know, corporate restructuring is done over 100 years in the world, you know how it's done, it's not some nuclear physics, you just have to apply that knowledge, the problem is when you don't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3078	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3079	I thank the chairman. Unlike Mr. Dacic, who was prime minister at the time, an expert on bankruptcy as a minister did not do his job, because if he did his job, we would not have a chance today to discuss something we need to discuss. We're discussing something that's accumulated problems not only generated by it, but generated much earlier, since 2001, right here. And now we've invented hot water that we can solve problems through bankruptcy, that we can solve problems by driving thousands of employees to the streets, leaving their families at the edge of existence, thinking about how we're going to settle the trustees, not just ordinary bankruptcy, but also those who have the right to separate settlement, asking whether there will be any of that bankruptcy to charge, forgetting the fact that the state's trustee is also a "Ilezare" and forgetting one fundamental fact that this government is RS and at a time when it was chaired by Ivica Dacic, and today Alexander Vukic, has taken on huge burdens, incredibly great burdens with which any government can hardly fight. This way of solving the problem is a way of solving which is only possible and acceptable, primarily for the employees of "The Irons" and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia and we, I am convinced, all together in the ruling coalition want these laws never to be passed again, because our goal is for the economy to heal, to get out of bankruptcy status, to get out of the economic collapse, and we won't need to talk about what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3080	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3081	I will explain to the citizens of Serbia what would have happened if the plan I made as a minister had passed. What we've been asking is that every firm in Serbia, whether it's a state-owned company, a public firm or social enterprises that were in the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, makes a personal card, and that means a list of assets, an estimate of those assets, an assessment of the obligations. When you're looking at the property, you're looking at the part that's dead property that's not used to doing the work, which can be sold, the property that's needed to carry out the work, and then you're doing some business plan, market analysis, then a business plan, and then there's a systematization of jobs going on with that business plan, and then, as part of that, you solve the issue of all the businesses that we have. Then all the employees under the bill that I have given are at odds with the backlogs of all years, so all the employees are connected to work, so the severances are paid to those who can't do the job by systematization, thus introducing order into the economy. This is what stopped Aleksandar Vucic, this is what stopped Ivica Dacic at the time with illegal solutions where he set up Mirovic to lead the Ministry of Business during the period. This is what was supposed to happen - means, a related job internship for all, paid back earnings for all, paid severance payments for those who cannot, or for which there is no room further in line with the business plans and business plans of the future for companies. Instead, we received a general public service which, for example, only in "The Irons" for two years costs 270m euros. We got it so the entire economy practically went bankrupt. What wasn't touched until then ended up there. This is what all citizens of Serbia know, this is what everyone in these companies knows. The price of irresponsibility and ignorance is what actually happened to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3082	Time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You'll do it? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be in touch next time. The chairman didn't see me for the first time. Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. If someone's talking bad about Dacic and Wolfie... Here, he's laughing. As it is said - laughs like Radulovic on flour. He's got a problem with Wolf and Dacic. And when, to forgive the citizens, he put his butt in their chair, they didn't bother him, even on the contrary, they used it. Here's where dignity got hurt. He says, on November 17, 2013, the leader of these, none of them sweated, writes to Aleksandra Vukic – withdraw the order to dig in the bankruptcy I worked in. True, yes or no? Here's how you further hurt dignity when you're bad at talking about those you've been grading. It says in the same e-mail from 17 November 2013 – ALSU is abolished, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, please tell Ivana Matic, this is his friend, here they are again energy efficient. That's what you were supposed to do this summer. Now you need to heat up a little bit. He says – please let Ivana Matic, his friend, be appointed as the new director. Its task is to shut down the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers and to put his association in order for them to run the bankruptcy and to have that Mrs. Matic remove all the violations, which she did...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3084	Time, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3085	... To end all the bankruptcy he's been working on. He is, ladies and gentlemen, an economist as much as Zivkovic's farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3086	According to the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3087	Thank you, Chairman. So Article 103 was injured. – abuse of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Rističević, who spoke of everything only not about the regular session, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think you've had to interrupt it, since it's also used some names of people who aren't in this House and I think it's completely inappropriate to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for the replica of some people who can't defend themselves here. So, a series of untrues at the expense of fellow MPs in the middle of a debate that can be somewhat and constructive, so that citizens know what actually happened to "Smederevo Iron" in the last four years. Marijan Risticevic has completely abused and I think you had to warn him. Thank you. I don't want to vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3088	I apologize if you think it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, I missed something after reading about how "Sartid" was privatized in 2002 and 2003, and a little deconcentration. A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3089	Truth be told, you, Mr. Radulovic, escaped from the Department of Industry. And you tried to escape along with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3090	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3091	So, he tried to escape Mr. Radulovic from the Ministry of Economy along with several cases of documentation containing his famous ID cards. I, Mr. Radulovic, remember, as chairman of the Galenika Supervisory Board coming to see you, right? (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? How am I not ashamed? How can you not be ashamed? It was you and he was your famous expert, as they were called, Mrs. Milenic, who later turned out to be a geologist. So it has nothing to do with the economy. Like you, if I'm not mistaken, an electrical engineering engineer has nothing to do with the economy. Your whole idea about IDs, about selling something so that the workers could be connected to the job internship, so that they would pay off, etc., was next. To push the entire Serbian economy into bankruptcy, to declare you and your wife bankrupt directors in all Serbian businesses and then to make a profit for you and your partners. You didn't care about saving 5,000 jobs in Smederev to save 500 jobs in Vladic's Han, a thousand jobs in Novi Sad. No, the whole Serbian economy is pushing into bankruptcy. You said no one can get money from the Development Fund while I'm the Minister of Business. By law, the economy minister is the chairman of the Development Fund Management Board. That's what you told me, as chairman of the Galenice Supervisory Board, because I wanted to save a company that was in huge economic trouble, but for these problems, I'm sorry, Alexander Vukic is not responsible and is not responsible for the SNS. But what were we supposed to do? Your idea was – let Galenika go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3092	Time, fellow Martinovic, you bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3093	Sell Galenika a kilo. That was your idea. Selling Iron to a kilo. That's your genius economic philosophy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3094	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3095	Chairman, I really don't know on what basis you gave the MP your word. Replication to what? I understand that it is an attempt to insult and demeane manners in the National Assembly. We're not going down to that level, that's for sure showing weakness. We are talking about a specific issue of leading the Irons and problems with the Irons. Funny stories this year where the documents stand on the USB that someone in the crates was carrying something, it's really funny and insulting the dignity of both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. So, the fact is that the plan existed, a very clear plan, which should have solved the issues of all employees in all state-owned companies or social enterprises. That plan was crystal clear, according to the rules and principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3096	Mr. Radulovich, I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3097	You can't interrupt me, I have a right to a replica, I've been told.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3098	Mr. Radulovic, you've shown the Rules of Procedure and asked for a word, not a replica. If you were looking for a replica, before you are entitled to a replica by MP Neđo Jovanovic. [[Saša Radulovic, from the place: I was looking for a replica.]] (Saša Radulovic, from the place: It is your fault, it is not mine. ) You know what, there are some rules in this House, that if you want the right to reply, it's enough to e-apply, to turn to you and show me that you want the right to replication, and the moment you request the word electronically and show me the Rules of Procedure, and that's what 249 MPs know, maybe less for your MP group, so you're asking to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Rules of Procedure have been lowered, I said clearly that I am looking for a replica. Finish it, you're right. Ask for a word just one more time. Ask for a word, one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3099	Thank you. Let me repeat, so the plan is very clear and this is how restructuring is done everywhere in the world. This is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A company ID card is made, assets are listed, liabilities are recorded, market analysis is done, then a financial plan, a business plan, job systematization, and then all employees are paid off, not a minimumer for a year, but all the backlogs, because those rights can't be ignored, work internships are connected, severance payments for those who no longer have a job under the systemizations. That is how order is introduced, and that is exactly what has stopped the government of the Republic of Serbia and that is why I have resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3100	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic has been waiting for ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3101	I really think after this, the replica doesn't make any sense anymore because the predecessor is everything about himself I said. If Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic had waited for utopian ideas to be implemented, who knows how far "Gelezzara" and the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia would have waited? All this is a beautiful story just asking the question of where the money comes from, who's going to give that kind of money to connect to all the companies' work experience, pay off profits, etc. Utopian stories don't make any sense. Instead of confusion and attempts to make a difference between the then prime minister and the first vice president should have worked. Apparently, there wasn't any work at the time. I'm not going to comment on these e-mails that Mr. Risticevic points to, because whoever wrote them well knows what he wrote and what it contains of these e-mails and for what purpose. Fortunately, these e-mails didn't lead to the destabilization of the government, or the conflict between coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3102	Right to the replica, MP Aleksandra Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3103	I asked you, Mr. Radulovic, at that meeting you don't remember, if you'll excuse me, and what to sell Galenika? Here, I've heard from you five hundred times now that companies are selling the property they need. Excuse me, what's to sell Galenika? A new drug factory. Sell what? What to sell a company that has nothing to sell? You couldn't answer that question, but that's not the point. The bottom line of your economic venture is that the entire Serbian economy goes bankrupt. That all state-owned enterprises not to privatize themselves, not to find a strategic partner, but to go bankrupt, and that in all companies, you or your friends would be the bankrupt manager who would install the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. You're saying I'm not ashamed. Excuse me, as you are not ashamed to be at the same time a bankruptcy manager in some 14 or 15 companies, and with your wife's company, you conclude a contract to provide accounting services for companies in which you are a bankruptcy manager, with 50% of your property, and 50% of your wife's ownership is with you as a bankruptcy manager. That was your genius point for the Serbian economy. That's why you, Mr. Radulovic, ran away from the Department of Economy with your head. And when you mention taxpayers, here I beg you, as God please, just tell me, whose taxpayer are you, American, Serbian, Japanese? In which country do you pay taxes and do you actually pay taxes to anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3104	Since this is no longer taking place, I am determining a break in accordance with Article 112. Ten-minute Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3106	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, today we have had a real opportunity to hear what the concepts of some unfulfilled wishes of former ministers are, but also what they seem to me to be, misunderstandings in the technical sense of this authentic interpretation. First of all, in front of the SNS, I think we should thank the parties who will support this authentic interpretation, because they have put their party interests behind state interests. Since when we talk about "The Irons", it was primarily of state interest and because they understood and had experience when there were stories of both "Sartid" and US Steel and "The Irons", it was simply that the accumulated property and legal problems and financial problems arising from all these years were looking for the essence, which is a good strategic partner. A good strategic partner was needed in 17 enterprises that were protected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the laws on privatisation, changes and additions of the Bank of Serbia in 2013 and 2014 in one part that had just trusted not only to put the company's bankruptcy, such as "Galenica", such as "Gelezzara", and that is what represents not only one economic, economic and social responsibility of the Government, but also all citizens of Serbia, above all, towards this country, but also the state towards the citizens. Because the concept of leaving 100,000 people on the street, whether they have some money for their associated work experience and for certain financial resources, payment per year of work experience, does not bring incomes and newly created values and does not bring economic development. "The Iron" is one of the main GDP generators and the problems Serbia faced in 2000 when it was a debt of the then US Steel country, which took over, or did not take over, because the state gave up practical claims, but sold for a price, and before that, Sartid also made the price for which they were sold at that time, the only possible solution was obviously at that time. Every government has been struggling with the solutions it needs to make. The government was about to implement economic reforms and fiscal consolidation of public finances with 232 credit lines, with mortgages over many facilities, with loans simply granted by the state under commercial conditions that 17 strategic enterprises must indeed protect and, in some ways, leave people working in those companies in a certain working relationship. Then came a big and difficult period of finding a strategic partner. A strategic partner, and fortunately, that in a certain way after years of work, regardless of what other interested companies appeared there, came and responded to the competition, on a public call that the Serbian government issued and agreed to enter a particular contractual side with the Serbian government, i.e. "Gelezar Smederevo". What we have here today authentic interpretation is, first of all, what we are like this Assembly and as a parliamentary majority, we have passed a law with which we really wanted to solve most of the property-legal problems in which Serbia has not only for the last 15 years, but for the last 25 years it has been struggling and there is simply no way it can come out, especially when it comes to negotiating with foreign investors and when we say that "Gelezara Smederevo" is and today it remains 100% owned by the Republic of Serbia, then it is a big thing, because today we have two legal persons - "Hestil" who is the Chinese partner "Gelezari" is one legal person, and "Gelezara Smederevo" another legal person. It is important to say because of Serbian citizens that Hestil has exclusively bought the property of "The Irons", which means that there is no transfer of claims, no transfer of obligations to employees, no third conditions. But what's important? It is important to say that the trust "Hestel" as an investor had in the government of Serbia and in "Zelezar" to close with 5,000 employees who worked at the "Hestel" directly, means Hestil has contracts to work with employees in "Zelezari". By doing so, they have shown a high level of trust in both this country and their strategic partner in Smederev. Smederevo is one of the vessels of Serbia's economic development, i.e. Serbia's economic downturn. That is why it is not easy to understand the solutions that speak of it, the easiest thing to do is to throw it into bankruptcy, to solve the whole situation overnight, to fire people, and if we need to hire maybe a hundred, two hundred, because as such an important economic strategic point, it simply generates our GDP, a new value, especially when we talk about production. What should be said today that Hestil employs 5,000 people says that the fall has been stopped at all when we talk about Smederev and stop economic downturn when we talk about the economy of the Republic of Serbia at all. Who is Hestil? It is very important that we know today what our strategic partner is like. First of all, on 4 March 2006, when a public call was issued for the collection of bids for the sale of the property of the privatisation entity relating to the company and "Zelezar Smederevo", the deadline was 30 March 2016, on 4 March, practically called for by the investor who gave 46m euros in his offer and what he said in his offer, that he would hire all employees from "Zeljere Smederevo". In addition, when you have a legal procedure according to which a partner like Hestil works, and when you have an property-legal legacy in Serbia, in which it is very difficult for any investor to understand that we have so far failed to resolve these unresolved issues, but that we have different models of resolution, as we have had the issue of bankruptcy or we have the question that 200 parcels of natural and legal persons have below the water that are connected to "The Iron", then it is quite understandable that you have to find a certain legal interpretation with which the investor will ensure its existence for many years on the Serbian market. It should be said that these waters we're talking about today are underground and there are more than 60 years. They're not new. When we talk about authentic interpretation, about the right of service, and not about ownership, it means that without the right to act "Hestil" "Hestil" may not work, because it can happen that the individual owns this plot through which certain waters go through, by a certain system there is damage and simply there is no financial means to fix such a thing, then he will be threatened by "Hestil", or "The Iron" because of such problems. What I'm saying this for, because I think it's the lack of understanding of colleagues from some parties who say it's a matter of telecommunications, a question of Serbia's electricity network, that it's a question of trespassing. They should know that according to the Serbian Constitution, Serbia's electricity network is 100% owned by the Serbian state and never owned by private citizens. We simply cannot bring such anti-constitutional acts. The telecommunications system, too, cannot be owned by private citizens, but is owned by the state. This is why today we have an authentic interpretation that we essentially want to strengthen the right of the person who bought the property, because without that right, the question of the action carried out by Hestil is raised. And what I would say in a legal sense, as an experienced lawyer, is that, as well as the chairman of the Legislator's Committee, I would no longer repeat it, but I would like to say that at the moment when we talk about economic activities and when we talk about economic reforms and when we talk about the Serbian Government being able to preserve 5,000 jobs in Smederevo, that this is one of the most important tasks it has accomplished for the citizens of Serbia, the debts that have been incurred by the work of "Smederevo Irons" have not been made since yesterday, since 2012, 2014, but are the product of all those laws that have ruled, and even the situation on the market, when we talk about steel production, the increase and the reduction of the price of steel in the world market and the possibilities in general that this kind of factory works and to be profitable. Because it is no accident that Ju-es Steel left and it is not an accident that simply what he invested in Serbia, the moment he took over "The Iron Smederevo" until he left Serbia, failed to close the financial structure in a cost-effective manner. It should be said that on 5 April 2006, the Ministry made a decision declaring the buyer "Hestil Group", and what is important to say is that the contract was signed and published on the Serbian Government's website, i.e. the Ministry of Business on 18 April, that the associates, i.e. the lawyers' offices representing Hestil, submitted a practical request to the Competition Commission for which the Commission approved the implementation of the concentration of Hestil and Železar Smederevo, thus obtaining conditions in practice that and in a formal and legal sense the management of these two companies exchange certain types of contracts, sign with new employees and that 1. 07. In fact, management was taken over in a formal legal sense and "Hestil" owned by him. Why are we saying all this when we're even talking about this authentic interpretation? It is good that Mr. Martinovic, as an experienced lawyer, noticed and proposed to the Serbian government that this authentic interpretation be adopted, because we have sent this message to not only the Chinese investor, but to all other investors that if they have a serious partner in the Republic of Serbia, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are in every situation on the side of the job, on the side of opening new jobs and creating climates in a legal and formal sense to create a new value, to create and develop, simply to encourage, this gross social product, not just for us, but for our children, because of our future. What is important to say today, that we hope that, here and in front of the SNS, an authorised promoter, that perhaps, in addition to these two opposition parties that we have heard will support this authentic interpretation, I hope that perhaps those who consider that the property issue may not be adequately defined, that they are indeed from experienced lawyers here in the Assembly to get a good explanation and a good reason why they would support this. Because yet we are all here in the Assembly in the interests of citizens, elected by these same citizens, and we believe that in the future, whatever decisions we make, we really need to make them with as much consensus as possible, no matter what investors are concerned about, from which countries they come and that sometimes you need to subdue your own party interests to the state. Although you consider yourself opposition parties, you do not need to use your right to use what is called the so-called opposition party. opportunity, but simply to use in one constructive sense. Of course, it is legitimate that the parties who believe such a proposal should withdraw. There is probably a lack of understanding, because the system of functioning of the state in a legal and regulatory sense is changing. A lot has changed since 2012, 2014, even today, and it is certain that this speed will increase, change of our laws, but also apply. It is obvious that the Serbian Parliament should help not only the Serbian government but also all Serbian citizens to realise their interests – the right to work. The right to work has indeed been achieved by these 5,000 people in Smederev, that they have not lost their jobs. Because if we had listened to some extremely rational energy-efficient models, obviously we would have stayed with people without a job, with people as social cases, with families without hope, with children looking as soon as possible to get out of here, hopelessly, with a situation that in a political sense would only lead to you being in a secure sense under great pressure, not only now that we are suffering, but also those who have all the other states that are economically unstable and politically inactive. When we talk at all, in the end, about "The Irons" and when we talk about authentic interpretation, we should say that this is just one example of solving property-legal relations that shows the willingness of all of us to actively engage in solving problems in the economy, but in economics by sending a message to all domestic and foreign companies that it is equally right to be interested in companies that are also in bankruptcy procedures and those that are strategically protected by the state. What is most important today is that this is an authentic interpretation of the opportunity for all parties to show up here in action, whether they really support the concept of opening new jobs, whether they support the concept of extracting the economy from the collapse and whether they support the concept for Serbia's future. In voting day, the SNS will support this authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3107	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We are moving to work in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3108	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing a very important law for Serbia, but also for the town of Smederevo, for overall economic development. The definition of the property that "Zelezara" has at its disposal solves a decades-old problem relating to the status of the facilities and the land of "Zeljezare". "Zelezara Smederevo" is undoubtedly an economic giant of huge national importance, and therefore this Government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to resolving all issues that burden "Smederevo" and its employees. The Socialist Party of Serbia unreservedly supports the government of the Republic of Serbia in an effort to put "the iron" on its good feet, to ensure that steel is placed abroad and that it is most important to ensure that the employees of "The Irons" who must never again be in a state of uncertainty for their jobs. The town of Smederevo and the citizens of Smedereva can be sure that this authentic interpretation will give everyone the support of this city's economy will continue to be "The Iron" with which, until the arrival of this government, too much experimentation has led to the edge of the sink at some point. My colleagues have been talking so far about the legal and political aspects of this proposal, and I will talk about the importance of "The Irons" for Smederevo, the city from which I come. First a brief reminder of the history of the Ironworks. The beginning of metallurgy in our country binds to the SARTID founded on February 20th 1913. It was a mixed company of minority Serbian capital and the majority capital of foreign shareholders. On the coast of Dunava a mile and a half upstream from the town of Smederev, the first plants of pre-war ironworks were built. In 1962, a decision was made on the construction of a new Jelizara on the site in Radinac, and in 1964 a cornerstone was laid. It's a time when the world's industry couldn't imagine without iron and steel and shows a strategic decision that Serbia is moving forward with the world. Since then, Jelizara's continued development and progress has contributed not only to the economic development of the town of Smederev, but also to Serbia's overall economic development. Since then, he has been following the constant development of not only the Irons but also the city of Smedereva, which remained connected to each other until today. Jelizara Smederevo has a hundred-year tradition in the production of iron and steel and is known in Europe for the production of steel, hot and cold-rolled products and white sheet. The Ironworks plants are located in Smederev, Šapac and Kučev, making Jellyzar a company of exceptional strategic importance for both the Republic of Serbia and the region. The fate of Jellyzare was in some way the fate of the Smederas. When Jellyzara worked and developed, that was when Smeder’s development developed. When Jellyzara was in trouble, he also had difficulties. That is why the citizens of Smederev clearly supported the government's efforts to make the strategic partner for Jelizara in China's most famous steel producer, Hestilo, which will enable stable business and further development of the city of Smederev and Serbia's overall economy. On April 5th, the Serbian government accepted the Chinese company Hestil's offer to buy Zelizara Smederevo, the only bidder in the tender to buy all 98 property continents of Jelizara, and most importantly, all 5,000 workers were detained. This means that not only about 5,000 employees live directly from Jelizara, but more than 20,000 citizens counting family members, as well as families of many suppliers and cooperatives. I point out that a higher-level social dialogue was established and doubled production thanks to the Chinese owner. The strategic partner will mean not only security for the city's employees, but also more jobs for suppliers and co-operatives, a return to Serbia's exports and a boost to the country's GDP growth. I would like to remind you that Jelizara is largely export-oriented, which certainly contributes to Serbia's economic growth. As long as he lives and works Jellyzar, he lives and develops the city of Smederevo. The government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear goal, which is to boost the economy, reduce unemployment and improve the lives of Serbian citizens. In that sense, the SPS parliamentary group will support this authentic interpretation of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3109	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, not there. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda is an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings, lines of economic society for the production and processing of steel Želizara Smederevo d.o.o. Brown. This agenda item has three segments. The first is the legal, political and certainly the everyday and the life. I will deal as a member of the SRS with three aspects and talk about this problem. We can't help but remember on February 20, 1913, when in different forms Jelizara Smederevo came into existence, but we in the SRS would like to talk in this way about "Utva" from Pančev, "Viskozi" from Loznica, "Krusik" from Valjva, FAP from Priboj, "Tamis" from Pančev, agricultural combinations across Serbia, Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank, Jugovani, mines, furniture factories and many other business entities that have long since worked. The authentic interpretation is primarily a legal question. In 2005, at the initiative of an economic operator, I tried to obtain a legal interpretation, or authentic interpretation, which also means interpretative interpretation by whoever brought it. The legal basis for this item of the agenda is to find first and foremost the Law on the National Assembly, Rule 53, and then the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Articles 194 and 195. When I wanted a legal interpretation, the authentic interpretation of a provision of the law told me, and this was in 2005 – ten years earlier we had no need for legal interpretations. So I remember in 2012 that we had maybe two or three cases. This is also a theoretical question. In addition to practical, authentic interpretation and theoretical question. Legal experts say it is not often necessary to resort to authentic interpretation of legal standards. Two reasons where it can be accessed are if it is a found, undoubtedly established legal gap, another case if it cannot be resolved otherwise. However, the 10th Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the period, if I am not mistaken for two years, had seven initiatives for authentic interpretation. Two were rejected, one was ongoing, but I'm not sure whether the problem was resolved, or whether legal interpretation was given, and in four cases legal interpretation arrived. Questions are raised, especially with this law is very interesting, the law was passed on 25 February 2016, entered into force on 26 February 2016, was brought into force by an emergency procedure and entered into force the day after the publication, the usual practice and the fixed term. Of course there is this exception, the constitutional term is eight days from the day of publication, so the question arises – did the need for authentic interpretation appear this short? There's something good about this law. In the Law on the acquisition of property rights related to Jelizar Smederev's deadlines provided for by this law are extremely short, and they are three, seven and 15 days. It would be good if deadlines relating to the direct application of Serbian citizens, i.e. the exercise of their rights primarily in addressing state bodies were cut short on these deadlines, I would say on some very reasonable deadlines. As you have heard from the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Zoran Krasic, we believe there was no need for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 6 of this Law. Perhaps there would be fewer misunderstandings and misunderstandings for all those who took part in this debate and who will comment on this authentic interpretation that, with this amendment and supplementation proposal, there were a few sentences who sought, which is why, what are these achieved? Mr. Gjorge Komlenski, as an authorised representative of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee in a very precise way, was the Committee's position to state this. I'm sure the debate would have been a little shortened. It doesn't matter how long the debate takes, our job and our task is to participate here in the debates and to work on the adoption of laws and other acts from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, not asking how many days or how many hours the debate will take in one day. So the point is, if there was some explanation with this proposal, there would be less clarity. If we are looking for authentic interpretation, then we can ask the question and trust of the investor who wants to enter the privatisation project of Jelizara in Smedereva whether there is maximum and full trust, because we have heard that from one parliamentary group it is said – no one will seek anything like this anymore and will not apply. Then from another MP we heard it said - we will send a very clear and precise message to all future investors that we want to enable them and protect their capital and tell them that there is complete legal certainty here. But I think this interpretation is completely unnecessary. In a direct manner, the application and interpretation of Article 6 of this Law could have led to the conclusion that the investor would have no problem with the case. Then the expert public is also asking the question - why is authentic interpretation required? Isn't there something hidden? Not everyone is in a position to listen or watch the public broadcast of the National Assembly sessions that they can believe or conclude what it is about, but if there is a need for authentic interpretation, and it springs and it is a clear provision of article 6 of this law, then they consider that there is something hidden, and it is not. Our pleasure, the satisfaction of the SRS above all the conferences that we were as a party at the time, which was not parliamentary we could hold, first of all our President Prof. Vojislav Seselj and to prevent, I would say, the robbery privatisation of "Smederevo" so as not to fall into the hands of "Esmarka" who had no conditions and which would be pure fraud. We are happy that this happened, which prevented this privatisation, today is a completely different relationship to this privatisation. The question arises: Can the owner of a privileged good alienate that well? This refers to "Smederevo Iron", so of course it can. Does he reserve his constitutional right quite well? Of course he's keeping it. So from article 6, it comes from a completely clear definition and it's fully protected by the future owner. Here we should have a correct relationship with all of this, and when I said that in this way, not because of the authentic interpretation of certain provisions, but by paying particular attention to the intention to create and produce a good environment for business activities when it could be discussed in many other companies in this way, we should appreciate the fact that the “Gelezzare” today works around 5,036 workers, that it owns 98 property continents, and “Hestel” means an enterprise that is interested, i.e. that purchases the property “Smederevo Irons” has been designed about 50 million tonnes of capacity and employs about 120 thousand workers in around 30 countries of the world. This gives the impression that it is a very serious partner who has come to Serbia with serious intent, and I don't think we should be making any problems about this privatisation, but of course we still feel that the authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6 of this law is completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3111	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3112	I thank the chairman. I said in my first address that as an MP for the People's Movement of Serbia, I have no problem voting for this proposal of authentic interpretation, but for reasons I do not think that the buyers of the "Sewers" property should now make it difficult to function, business or new investment. So the question is, why are we doing this today, whether it's become a practice, whether we have a system in work and why this authentic interpretation, if it's supposed to be defined by law or contract, or whether it actually means that you didn't do the job the way you did, and now we're correcting it as we have, and many times we've seen it in laws that have been adopted by an emergency procedure, and soon after that, all those laws have been changed. What I am interested in and did not get answers from the debate so far and it is a good thing that Hestil is now in Smederevo and that it is a good thing that 5,000 people there are busy there, it must not cloud the fact that there are those responsible for the greatest loss in the history of "Geales" annually of 145m euros under the leadership and management of the management house of Peter Kamarash and John Goodis. So no one answered that. I received answers about what was happening ten or more years ago, but this particular question and it concerns us, and we could hear from the media what was actually happening here, especially because of the love that was created when these consultants who took over as professional management of it were announced as world champions in that area from the RS government and by Minister Sertic. Then within a year, we received completely opposite information, which is the debate on who is responsible for this loss, and then Peter Kamaras said that the wrong management that was appointed by the RS government before them was headed by Bojan Bojkovic, who paid the supplier in advance from Germany 100 million dollars for raw materials that had never been delivered. I don't know if it's true or not. This was quoted by Bojan Boykovic, who was appointed by your government. On the other hand, Bojkovic responded by saying that Kamaras is the one responsible for the situation in "The Irons" because he obtained raw materials from his firm "Pikaro" from Ukraine and because "The Irons" had to be forced to have only one buyer, or supplier. Also, the story continued with someone allowing Kamarasha to make a fictitious contract to hire a team of 35 people to manage "The Iron" and he said there were only a few relatives and friends. One fundamental question arises, and this is where was the monitoring committee appointed by the RS government? Where is the responsibility of those people who have seen what is happening to "The Iron" who allowed Bojkovic, did Peter Kamaras and Gudish make a loss of 145m euros? No one has ever done so much at the Ironworks. Now it should be returned by the citizens of Serbia, and we have no answer for it, and don't let the fact that Hestil is here and that we have 5,000 workers working at the Ironworks be a compensation for the loss you've made by mismanagement and poor management of the company. As far as the funds are concerned, these are the funds of the citizens of RS, the budget and 100m euros that you provided in 2015 "The Irons" are money that you probably took from pensioners or employees. Now, the question arises for other systems that were unfortunately not in the opportunity for the state to help them so, and I heard an argument earlier where one MP says – we could not go bankrupt to send "Gallenika" or "Gelezar Smedereva". What about the 5,000 employees of Smederev and I absolutely support it. I support that we are all fighting to keep 5,000 workers in the "Smederevo Irons" working and if we have to help in some way, but not by making Kamaras rich and who knows who he's dealing with because of his company's trade with "The Iron". I ask the question – are the 5,000 workers who worked at the First Five-year-old in Triestenik and who didn't need from the budget or close to this amount of giving, just wanted to let them live and work market until they found their partner? Are they less valuable? No, they're not. There weren't the same arches for everyone. There were certain interests as to why the Irons were given so much money and not only the Petolets from Trieste but they can also place FAP from Priboj with which there have also been many and various promises and announcements. In October, from Kruševac and Car factories from the Kings and other large systems that have been released. It also employs a large number of workers in all thousands of employees. So, please, aside from what we're saying tonight that someone is saying and who's going to be responsible for half a billion as much as the loss of "Smederevo Iron" because Hestil didn't buy the debts, he only bought the property of "Smederevo Iron". So, please, in addition to what we're talking about tonight, someone is saying and who's going to be responsible for half a billion-dollar loss today, because Hestil didn't buy the debts, he bought only the property of "Smederevo Irons".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3113	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3114	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, what makes this Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, special is that he does his job with honor, honesty and responsibility, not giving up on the goals he sets before him. The best example for this is "Smederevo Iron", which everyone has already seen and felt should be closed. With great work, effort and tenacity of "Zelezara" not only is it not closed, but it will contribute to the economic development not only of Smederava, but also of Serbia as a whole. Only those who worked to keep "The Iron" from shutting down know how hard it was to agree everything in one continent and lead the factory to survive, and then bring a strategic partner, a Chinese partner, along with Chinese President Si Giping's huge support. With an investment of 300m euros that Hestil plans to invest in "Zelezar" and to raise production to a maximum of 2.1m tonnes, it is certainly of the utmost importance that all 5050 workers remain in their jobs. All this makes it clear that the case of "The Irons" is an example of how to work in Serbia. Industriousness, commitment, loyalty to the state of Serbia and to its people. It gives every man with honorable intentions an additional motive to make it impossible and give his country and people the best they can. I'd like to continue my speech tonight in one way. However, I will have to redefine it because it is simply impossible, amazing and I cannot understand how much hysteria, malice and malicious commentary is for everything that is successful and that helps develop the state of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. What are the assets of the former regime and the first greatest democratic achievements are the burning and pillaging of this assembly building. After that, when you stepped up a little bit, there was the biggest robbery privatisation in Serbia's history. Economists are still arguing today, but forecasts that over $80 billion has been included since privatisation and donations. What you did with that money is God knows, but the fact that you led Serbia to bankruptcy. Then in the election, the people voted for Alexander Vukic and SNS for the first time, and then again for Alexander Vukic and SNS and, gentlemen, there's a point for you. As you led the country's economy, it will be written in black letters in Serbian history. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, writes in every other respect the better pages of Serbian history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3115	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3116	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, who knows which way we return to the question of what kind of vision we see, what is the vision of Serbia proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or us as MPs, if the fact that we inherited zero dinars in 2012, that is, you as the new government that was then established together with the Socialist Party of Serbia, and then today we have 52 billion debts. Then we're just asking you where 450m euros went from "Smederevo Ironworks"? What is this vision of Serbia that has to spend on various partners who come and then we trust the politicians of the regime that everything will be okay, that "Zeljara" will be reborn and that it will start working on another stove, that industrialisation of all Serbia will begin, that we will hire people, that we will preserve workers and that the wages will be greater than they were? How can we talk, for example? All these things and allow 450m euros in Serbia to allow itself to lose at a time when there are no scholarships, at a time when young people leave Serbia, at a time when only investors come, as in Obrenovac, which means that workers stand ten hours on the track, turn some screws, and that's the only condition it takes to get a job and then stand in diapers for ten hours and lose their life hope that Serbia will ever get better? "Zelezara" is today a synonym for Mita from Obrenovac, for Belgrade's "Belgrade on Water", "Gelezara" is a synonym for jobs that push Serbia into an ambis and ruin while 130,000 people, primarily young, primarily educated, above all those who know how to do something, have gone from Serbia from 2012 to today. So 450m euros in losses, and in the meantime we had various comings, thus pompously saving "Zelezar Smederevo". And then someone mentioned privatisation or purchase by Ju Es Steele, which was one of the largest exporters in Serbia for ten years. Then someone's got a problem with the fact that for ten years, everything worked out just fine. There was, of course, a crisis on the world steel market, "Jus Steel" withdrew from Serbia, but the state of Serbia left "Zelezar Smederevo" with zero dinars of debt, with six months of pre-supervised salaries for workers. How are we today 450 million euros in minus, and we're never doing better? How can we have a situation with 450m euros, 100,000 euros per employee of the company? Now just imagine that we offered the tenth part of it to those workers who were no longer interested in working in companies that they saw themselves fail, so that they could open up their own business, so we could try to reform and restructure the company. Is by pushing him into bankruptcy, and workers regularly pay salaries, but much less would be a loss than this one today. Three times the loss would be less than today, and we would have over 250m or 300m euros to invest in something completely different, which would also employ all those who are not only working at the Irons today, but are hoping in Serbia to get a job. As for investment, Serbia today invests exclusively in an industry that does not want to be in China either. They don't want to be in China anymore either. Well, it's fertile here because they have cheap labor. When it comes to "The Iron," it is about what kind of a vision Serbia has. In ten years from today, are we going to be a society of slaves or a society of citizens? That's what this is about. Are we going to invest in those companies or those industries that employ workers with minimals, which stand for 10 or 12 hours, and cannot go to the toilets, or are we going to develop high-tech technologies, or are we going to develop the IT sector, where Serbia today is in advantage of the whole region? You have electrical engineering colleges in both Novi Sad and Nis and Belgrade, which have a bar above the European average. We don't use it. We don't invest in the IT sector, and there's our chance. Because the price of our programmer today is much more favourable than the price of a programmer in the EU. Then why not invite large companies, both Google and Eagle and Apple and Amazon and many others, and create conditions for them with the reform of the tax system, with the reform of the public administration, to make it a fertile ground for the development of the IT sector? I don't know if you're aware that we have to skip 50 years. Fifty years behind the developed countries of Europe. We have to skip 50 years, not develop in a fixed pattern of development, where we're going to bring companies that will hire 1,000 or 2,000 people for a minimum. I don't know if you're aware that someone who doesn't have a job hopes to walk straight through this country because one day they'll find a job, they'll be proud of what they're doing, which maybe one of their points will give when it comes to the result of his work. It's life's purpose, to make someone happy and happy with the work he's doing, to be proud of his job. It's the meaning of life. Now, when he finds a job for 20,000 dinars, you've killed his hope, there's no hope in that family anymore. That's why there's violence in the family, that's why these people don't have time for culture, that's why these people don't have time to deal with other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3117	Mr. Bozovic, come on, please, now we've gone to domestic violence. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3118	We must not allow the loss of 450m euros to be called boys' fights between Esmark and someone else who came on a proposal from the Prime Minister, so he promised that "The Irons" would flourish. I immediately say, in some, of course, we were talking about REM today, about the media at the national frequency, the second oven is on fire, it's been spinning for a year on national frequency, on the diaries, on the news, on the morning programs, but no one has announced that the first furnace has been shut down and that everything spills from hollow to empty, and that the cash register just knocks and the bill just comes into the central cash register for payment. I want to tell you that it is a vision of Serbia that will make this society a slave society, where there will be no youth, where there will be no one who will be able to develop this country tomorrow. If you are not urgently, like the majority, who is indisputable in this House, it has led you to reform the tax system, to make the state cheaper than it is, to learn from the government's 2008-2012 mistakes, these mistakes have been, to understand, to learn from these mistakes, and not just to repeat the same and then to pre-name them in some subsequent action. You're twice as wrong as the government sinned from 2008 to 2012. We cannot be wise, or you, as a ruler, to be wise and to learn from other people's mistakes. You are constantly learning on your own, but it costs Serbia. We learned from our mistakes, you learn because it costs Serbia. Was Kamaras the one who led "The Iron" Smederevo under a certain contract and promised to hire more workers there than he does today and to raise the average salary in "The Irons"? Yes, it is. Is that contract available to the public? It's not. If we work in such a way that we trust someone to manage our property, and then they buy some raw materials there from Ukraine, and here to sell them to us at the Ironworks, then they take a margin, and then they make a profit at the expense of a state that has an ever bigger and bigger debt. I want to tell you that it is a work that is barren and it is a job that cannot without costing citizens of Serbia who are filling this budget. A few days ago, we denied many local self-government for school buses, for geronto housewives, for textbooks, for married couples, for baby packages, because we took local self-government money, and here we are wasting ourselves like we don't know what to do with the money that I repeat is filled with those who have reduced salaries and pensions. Auditor's houses like KPMG are talking about these things that I'm talking about. This isn't fictional data. This is the information available to the public. We can't talk seriously if we don't talk about what Serbia will look like on the Smederev case. Whether the city has a future tomorrow, if we constantly deceive them that "The Iron" will work and that it will become the largest in Europe and the largest producer in Europe, and that is certainly not true. Whether "The Irons" workers have a future if someone comes from the government of the Republic of Serbia and constantly assures them that the situation will be stable, that they will have a certain future. No, he won't. It takes once as a power to muster up courage and be responsible and tell where it hurts, where it has to bend the line. It costs us here and there. We made a mistake then and then. Here, we'll fix it now. If we work like this with a bribe in Obrenovac, as with "Zelezar Smederevo", as with "Belgrade on Water", all under the table, all under the grains, with contracts that are not available to the public, with millions of euros, hundreds of millions of euros, without, for example, sending young people from secondary schools who compete in math competitions, but have to have their own fund, so they pay their parents, and their neighbors, and then comrades from other schools and their parents, to treat children via SMS, 450m euros. Someone has to draw the line and say, "I'm taking responsibility for this." It's political courage and it's political determination. Anything else, believe me, friends, can't be reflected without Serbia being well and for those who have definitely decided to leave the country in it to stay. We have a situation that tomorrow we will face laws that will cost not a hundred times but a thousand times less, and we will not meet them because we will say – the consolidation of the budget is important. That's what the IMF wants from us. You're, uh, just to tell you one thing, I'm giving you a fully open confession, when it comes to clearing up the field in the Savamala area, you've done a great job here, but you don't know what to do next. When it comes to the IMF, invite him to the negotiations, sit at the table, that's great, but you don't know what to do next. It's like the 19th century railroad you're acting like when it was introduced. The Radicals were against the introduction of the railroad, and then when it was introduced, then you covered it with blankets, so the railways wouldn't freeze, so the train wouldn't catch cold. And you don't know what to do next. So, up to one level, you do the job, you do the promenade, you do the honors, you try to bring in Esmark, you bring him in, but you don't know what to do next. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: And you know? Of course, the DS knows what to do next. Here, today I have given you examples of how you can correct your mistakes and I think it is important that those who absolutely do not have the will to deal with this topic of "Smederevo Iron" in the future and listen to how Serbia will be better with the 17th and 18th centuries industries. Serbia must have an industry of the 22nd century to try to reach those countries that it lags behind and that's where the investor needs to be. We can't afford to pour ourselves where it leaks from all sides anymore. If you are responsible for the government, you have not shown it so far, then turn the tap, make the necessary cuts and reforms, you will probably lose a lot of popularity, but you are doing it because of future generations and because of Serbia, and not because of yourself, remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3119	Will you vote for interpretation?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3120	We put that against you, you have a list in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3121	It's not binding, it's often put undetermined, so it's a vote against or for. It's a matter of tactics, obviously. Alexander Stevanović is not here. Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our people have one saying, says, "What a coat of arms is born, the time does not correct." And here's one of these interpretations is the result of a crazy policy that started in 2002, and the current government is trying to solve these problems, to really take care of the citizens, to really care about the economy. Those who reportedly cared about the economy now, here I am going to say that they cared, how they really loved Serbian citizens, how they sold this "Sartid" that they even stole gold from it. Since there was a controversy here about how long Sartida was during the last privatisation, I will now read the debt "Sartida" which was recognised before the court and which was written off to U.S. Steel. And since there's even this story of U.S. Steel being that privileged customer, now the citizens are going to hear, they know, but they're pretending and they think we forgot. "Sardid" Smederev's bankruptcy recognises debts before the competent court, then he was still a trade court in Pozarevec, not a transferred case to Belgrade, which is locally responsible for Sartida's bankruptcy, and says this: "Investbanka" worth a billion dollars. Funny to someone? The Republic of Serbia is paying the London and Paris Club for the bankruptcy of Investbanka, which is not funny to me. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: 1990s. All one thing, the state pays. He's paying this country now. This country's paying now. Let's move on. Serbian citizens "Belgrade Bank" 180m dollars, "Jugobanka", $24m, NIS 910m, ZTP Belgrade, 551m, Tehnosas 275m. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: 1990s. ) And, please, fellow MPs, who, while he was a minister, wrote a law to sell state property not an old privatisation agency but a private chamber of bankruptcy managers and to steal state property. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Who is he? Is it Sasa Radulovic? I think it's this fellow Martinovic. NIS Jugopetrol Belgrade 183m dinars, NIS Novi Sad 122m dinars, "Metalex Bank" Belgrade 99m dinars, "Dunav Insurance" 74m dinars, "Dufferko Adria" 64m dollars, Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund 470m, German firm six million, Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia 44m 685m euros. These were written off "Sartida" in 2002, and how did they sell "Sartid" on fraud? I'll tell you now. There was a company in Slovenia U.S. Steel Kosice, which concluded a business technical co-operation agreement with Sartida in November, October or November 2002. You don't know that, pal. Now you'll find out. Under that contract, the drive that Sartid has, are those the '90s? No, they're not. The engines that Sartid has are given to use U.S. Steel Cartes for five years in advance. If there is a privatisation of "Sartida" for seven years U.S. Steel Košice can use the plants "Sartida" without compensation to the new owner. The technical agreement, agreed by the Serbian government, "Sartid" has already been privatised. Now the dirty part of the job needs to be done, which is that the banks of the Serbians go bankrupt, the ones I've read. The director of the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks Miroljub Labus is conducting a procedure set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Set up by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Trade Court in Pozarevec is being taken away from him by local jurisdiction, that the Trade Court in Belgrade is conducting a further bankruptcy procedure, which opens on July 30th 2002. The bankruptcy judge Milan Markovic, President of the Bank of the Bank of Croatia, Dusan Markicevic, and is named Branislav Ignjatovic for the bankruptcy manager, without a day of employment and experience in the management of the company, and has only one recommendation for the post. You wonder what? The best man is with Nemanja Kolaser. This is how you privatized ‘Sartid’. There's no amnesty here, billions of euros and dollars are ruined. Furthermore, Sartida exports amounted to $150m. In 2002, watch out, 25 thousand tons, 1999 and 2000. So, during the bombing. When they started running the Sartid, steel production was at a level of ten thousand tonnes, two and a half times less than during the war or economic sanctions. Furthermore, more companies have sent before the conclusion of the technical agreement, demands to participate in the privatisation of Sartida for $350,000 and to pay 50% of the debts. One of the companies, I'm not going to mention names now. Next, on October 27th to 30th, the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignatovic is staying in America for the takeover of $500,000 worth of gold and a hundred thousand-dollar gold jewelry. The gold was located in a company that was the daughter of the firm Sartida. Do I have to say it's gold and gold jewelry that's gone? No, they're gone. That was your authority. So they cared about the state, and I don’t keep counting how it all went with the story of “Sartid. ” They are not exclusive, all of this has already been read from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's pay phone. These are the data from my discussions in October, November, December 2007, and that is only one part, how Sartid was robbed and how the cost of the robbery had to be paid by Serbian citizens. All these liabilities of banks that were in bankruptcy and that were write-offs, I just forgot one detail to say, for the sake of justification of the low price of Sartida in 2003, someone doesn't think it's funny to me, and so do his obligations to banks. With about 500, 600 million dollars, it shrinks to the 21 million dollars it was sold for, in order to repay claims to banks at some amount. It was done in July of the month, and then when Sartid is no longer a social property in bankruptcy, when it no longer belongs to the Republic of Serbia, these claims by banks, were written off a day later to a private company. That's not funny to me either. Now, since the Republic of Serbia has given its consent to open these banks, it pays its commitments to banks in bankruptcy according to the London, Paris Club and other creditors. As you can see, another detail, just so I don't forget, since Sartid was sold for 21 million dollars, someone will say – great, we bought it for one euro, it's wrong. We bought it for one euro, but with 240m euros in debt. Why am I saying all this? Because Sartida has a lot in Serbia, because someone cheaply came to some important, large property, exploited that property for years, and when it came to the conclusion that it no longer gives him much money, shut down the factory or said -- here you have 240m euros in debts, give us one euro or a dollar, however, here are 5,000 workers and the obligations you need to pay back. If Sartid was sold for what it really cost, any investor who bought it, he would have kept it as eyes in his head, because he invested his money in it, wouldn't have closed it, and wouldn't have sold it for one euro. He'd keep both those workers and that property he paid dearly. But when he buys something cheap, he exploits it, it's like buying a car that costs 50 or 60,000 euros for 10 euros, exporting it for 10 years, so bring it back, here's to you for one euro, well, you did it. So Sartid is privatized. Now, the government of Alexander Vukic needs all kinds of marifetteluke and nonsense to solve since 2002, 2003. And don't let anyone say there weren't any interested in buying the Sartide. It was, until a contract with US Steel was signed, that seven years could exploit "Sartid", no matter who owned it. Who's gonna buy you a factory like that? No one will. It was a pre-prepared game for a famous buyer. Was there an abuse? At this time stream, I don't believe it can be proven, but everything as it went, and to return to this gold that's gone, I'm deeply certain that there have been a lot of abuses and a lot of commissions, as well as in the past 12 years, when you've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3123	The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3124	He's making love to his political opponents again, and we've been watching it all these days. And the longer we do, the harder the spills, but it won't lead us to some solution. Here, today we're talking about a bill that we asked a simple question. We wanted answers, more specifically answers to what we're deciding today, what we're going to vote on, what the consequences will be. Finally, through this many emotions, this much debate and distraction until the 1990s, we have come at least to some answers, which is that the authorised representative eventually discovered that it was some tens of thousands of parcels. We couldn't hear it at first, but we came from the debate that it's impossible here now to present a detailed description of all 10,000 plots and everything that will treat this decision of ours. Otherwise, on all these charges on the topic of the state of "The Irons", I remember the same well when in this "The Irons", which was so successful before 2000, and the arrival of new authorities, mushrooms, shampoos were grown. Could it have brought profit and supported workers who had been used? Of course not. It's the time when the biggest debts were created. You had answers from the opposition benches when you were talking about all these banks and debts to banks. Yes, these are the 1990s and debts stem from those very years when Sartid functioned in such a way, "Smederevo Iron". To talk about the post-2000 duty and what happened back then. Fifteen billion euros in public debt in 2000 inherited in May 2012 and also 14.8 billion euros in debt. It's verifiable, it's possible to check. Later on, after 2000, the London, Paris Club, but in 2000, the public debt was 15 billion, with a participation of 160% in GDP at that time, which was seven billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3125	Thank you. Mr. Milic, what's the base of the call? Nenad Milic, from the place: Replica. I recognized myself. But no one else recognized you, really. Really, nobody mentioned you, not LDP, not you, not anyone. Mr. Radulovich, no one mentioned your name either. If you think it is, I will give you my word, although there were discussions about 2002, Paris, London Club, claims to our banks that went bankrupt, etc. I can't give you a replica, but I'll give it to you if Branislav Mihajlovic agrees over the line of words. So if your MP wants to change with you, you'll get over the line, because you didn't directly mention it at all. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am mentioned very clearly. I haven't made my decision yet. A long process of thinking about what to do, since no MP has been mentioned. What do you say, it wasn't mentioned? Most, except for MP Krasic, who is in minority this time, thinks he is not mentioned at all, and cannot give a replica. The word is by MP Marko Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3126	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry when a gentleman from a circle of two doesn't come out for three months, and then he talks about suburban municipalities and talks about what is being made there and talks about the economy in Serbia at all. I'm very sorry to hear that, since he's so screwed up in his exposure that he's probably not feeling well now. When the gentleman mentioned "Meita", he first had to study the data about "Meite" and about the China company that came to Obrenovac, and then talk about it. I'm sorry he hasn't been informed and maybe he hasn't been in Obrenovac for the last six months, because if he'd been in the Barritch industrial zone, he'd have seen 35,000 squares, completely done with access to the traffic, and he'd also know that 600 young people from Obrenovac went to training in China, they've been training for six months. During that time, they were paid fairly. They're back from China. Machines currently come to the factory worth 25m euros. These are all the latest CNC strings these people are going to be working on. In that factory, when it starts working, it's going to be 1,570 people. Mr. Alexander Vukitch brought this investment himself. I can tell the gentleman that I've had a chance to meet Mr. Ben who owns the Mita Motors company and who, sir, has a hall of 170 thousand squares and 45 thousand workers in Beijing. That man lives with his entire family around the factory and works with his employees all day long. The man was privileged to come to a suburban municipality of Obrenovac to invest 60m euros, and he had the same offer and even better in Poland, but because of our relations with China he agreed to come to Obrenovac. And you found it to compare to the fraud, you who didn't leave the circle for three months. Well, the last time you went to your party buddies in Obrenovac was to round them up, and that didn't help, either, because they couldn't get past the censorship. That's how much they believe what you can do from the DS. The last three presidents of the municipality, yours, from the DS, the first from 2000 to 2004 changed the urban plan to build a residential business centre in Obrenovac. After that, you punished him by letting him be the director of a company. The second director you brought in, he was the president of the municipality for four years, and then you rewarded him to be director of the Kolubara, and he ended up with a bunch of bucagies in prison for a year, because he was doing malfeasance with the purchase of land in Lazarec in Kopa. The third was four years old, and then he fled to Dubai, because when he lost to be president of the municipality he never did anything, because before that he was a teacher of physical culture for three months in elementary school. They're your personnel, sir. That's DS. That's why the Progressive Party got 58% in Obrenovac for work and for the effort of Mr. Vukic who didn't find it hard to come to Obrenovac 46 times after the flood, and how long you were to visit and yours that almost drowned in so much water. Mr. Wolfie was 46 times. He did not share pills as your president in 2012 when they drowned in floods, but brought 100m euros and restored the city. How dare you say that? How can you lie to this people? In May, 2014, the floods, and the children headed to school in September. Well, the water was two meters on average, about four and a half and five. You found something to talk about. You've ruined this country since 2000. We're talking about 24 controversial privatisations, so that's where Sartide was. Your chiefs of staff were in affairs. You were directly out of bankruptcy selling Sartid, “US Stell”. This "US Stell" is a small part of his establishment along the way, and you're telling someone something. You compare the US Stella company, which is like locusts, from one field to another, and eat. That's how they open their factories and only stay where they have interests and benefits. Compare this company that's just arrived. It's a company that has 70 companies all over the world, 120,000 employees. They're serious people. They've already signed contracts with 5,050 people. They don't sell fog. Now, that's the difference between those of yours that came and those that we brought. Well, the Chinese president wouldn't come here to Serbia to support the whole story. It would not be invested in Serbian railways if it were modernised. You wouldn't be credited for the highway from Obrenovac to Ljig if they didn't recognize the right people here, the people who fight for their country, their people and their country. They're not going to take those roads somewhere, they're going to leave them here and for your children, for mine, to leave them for the future of this country. When he builds that infrastructure, then a company will come. In Subotica you have Simens, so you have "Cacedonia", so you have "Leoni" in Nis, so you have for the last two years 115 thousand jobs, but you don't know that because you left the circle of two you didn't leave sir. And you found someone to criticize. Shame on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3127	There, the MP himself has finished. The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3128	Your Honor, I understand that the concentration has fallen to everyone, including you, obviously. So much for letting someone break members and 106, and 107. The rules of procedure are really totally inappropriate. So, this, I'm going back on the subject, we're talking about Sartide, we have a very specific agenda point, he's not in Obrenovac. It's in Smederev. If the previous MP has a problem with the floods, let him address the gentleman who runs the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, who has never mentioned a single water business since the beginning of this year. So it's done elsewhere, and I'm really asking you to bring this topic in with dignity and the way it's supposed to end and to completely cross if we have to tonight and at the next point of the agenda, but not to go to the agenda points that aren't the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3129	This is what Mr. Zoran Krasic and MP Komlenski and no one else spoke about. Otherwise, your chief of Parliament didn't say a word. Because basically the topic they'd be telling me about today is what's really right and what's real service. That's the topic of interpretation that we have ahead of us. If you know how to answer that, I hurt the Rules of Procedure and I will ask myself to vote on my injury to the Rules of Procedure. Since no one but these two MPs talked about it, they were talking about numerous privatisation problems in Serbia and why it is good that the Chinese company entered "Smederevo Iron" then I have to be more flexible and let MPs talk about it. But of course we're going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no problem with me, but that's the topic today. If we're going to stick to the subject strictly, then I'm going to give your colleagues a word right now after Balša Bozovic who has the right to reply to explain to us what's really right and what's real service. I think there's a little bit of us here in the O.R. who would know exactly how to explain it legally. (Sasa Radulovic throws. That's the theme, MP. It's really inappropriate, but what do I do? You can't piss me off at all. Don't throw it at me. I can be your... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You cannot be me. )......................................................................................................... Nothing. Yeah, I'm more than a decent person. That's right, and don't talk like that. I can be your sister. I can also be your mother, your aunt by age, whatever you want, and I'm a woman first of all, and don't use it, and don't be like that just because I'm a woman who's President of Parliament and you've been doing it all day, and you've been disrespecting me, and in fact you're trying to be a political woman, who's a lawyer, and who has to answer by the Rules of Procedure to the MPs who are looking for an injury... (Sasa Radulovic throws. You don't have the patience to work. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Not for insulting and disdaining. What can I do when I know what's on the agenda? (Saša Radulovic, from town: Just polite. I am more than decent, and those people who call for decency and gain speak for themselves and their own understanding of decency. What I'm going to do is someone has some legal knowledge, so they can dominate here. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3130	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker has made a series of lies, and I will begin with what he has accused the Democratic Party of allegedly not understanding. Let me just explain what this is about. So Meita is a factory that has a planned 60m-euro investment. Twenty million euros is paid by the Republic and 20m euros is paid by the city and 20m euros is paid by the investor, and Serbia has a stake, or Belgrade, of 0%. Two-thirds of the investment is being paid by the pensioner's money, the money of the public and private sector employees, and we have absolutely no ownership of the company. That's one thing. The second thing is, 1,500 employees because an investor who has slaves in China came to China, so he wants them now in Serbia to be cheaper than those in China. It's not an investment. It's an insolence and it's called ignorance. The second thing, don't brag about the renovation, because since May, when the floods were, by New Year's, you haven't been able to restore 80% of the houses, so people spent New Year's Eve in houses without roofs with walls that are wet and without heating, and the Obrenovec know it best. Two thousand businessmen to this day did not receive what belonged to them. I guess you know that better than anyone. I'm not sure if you're someone Mr. Cuchkovic suggested to be a member of parliament, otherwise they'd know that. A new year without roofs and heating. It is a renewal that praises the government of the Republic of Serbia. The private donations of Dejan Stankovic and many businesses in Serbia were bigger than the Serbian state. So it's a shame that you're boasting about the Obrenovac, and the Obrenovci can best confirm what I'm saying. Thank you. No, I didn't mention anyone. [[Marko Gavrilovic, from the place: Can I have a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3131	Who's Dejan Stankovic? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Fudbaler. One of our most famous football players. I know, I'm kidding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3132	I'll explain a little more to the gentleman, seeing as how he didn't know it before, when I explained it to him. First of all, as far as businessmen are concerned, all the businessmen in Obrenovac have been compensated by a state of 240,000 dinars. Also, all the businessmen in Obrenovac received compensation from the Norwegian embassy for damages of 250 to 600,000 dinars, depending on how much his company suffered. All private individuals received from the German organisation "Help" also in fixed funds from three thousand to six thousand euros. That's the real truth of what the privates in Obrenovac got. To this, if houses hadn't been done and people were without roofs, it's also a lie, because if the gentleman had been to Obrenovac, as he hadn't, he would have known that Obrenovac was a city that was 95% thermalized, and the entire thermal network was done and arranged before winter. That's what all the people who live in Obrenovac can do to confirm to him, so those truths that spread are a disgrace to his party. Obrenovci and people living in Obrenovac recognized the work of DS by 2012 and thus gave them confidence in the elections. Basically, the gentleman doesn't have to come to Obrenovac anymore, because there's no DS there anymore and he'll never get anything again. That's the point of the whole Obrenovac story, and if you have anything else you don't understand, that your comrades who survived the Obrenovac didn't tip you off, you tell me, and I'll let you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3133	Should we give the word to Alexandra Jerkov? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Do you want to continue to argue? I think you've told each other everything and give the word to Alexandra Jerkov. If you insist, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3134	Thank you, President. I think it's very important, for the sake of truth. So, of course I was in Obrenovac. I was there every day while there were floods, because I had, not only concerns about the citizens who were in danger, but of course I had many friends who didn't answer the phone at the time. I think we've all done a lot together, and I don't share any power, no opposition, and all of it, to do everything we can in a situation where the Colubara was poured out and we had a really big problem. In one part of Belgrade, ties disappeared with people there. But what's the fact is that people have spent New Year's Eve in homes that aren't finished, and some of them haven't won to this day... I have an example. In the big village, people are still talking today about how they weren't precisely and honestly ranked and how they couldn't get help from the municipality, from the city, from the Republic. No one took care of them. I've met with these people several times, with businessmen several times, with tenants in Obrenovac several times. They did not have, for example, the right to compensate for what they meant. For those people who were entitled to housing, they also didn't get any help. The state, or government, has done four times less than private donations to Serbian companies. It's an honor to those companies that took part in the rebuilding of the Obrenovac. I am personally, as an MP and a Serbian citizen, proud of them. As for "Meite", there you are trying to build a slave force to make some Chinese investor money. It's not an investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3135	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3136	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm simply touched, since I'm the only one in the family who's had a human loss in Obrenovac. I believe it is not only my dignity that is offended, but the dignity of the entire parliament. I've been there since day one. I haven't seen a gentleman like I haven't seen one of his colleagues. We kept trying to find the boats. They weren't there because the leader of their party, today's leader...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3137	Ambassador, enter the line. Please don't. Just tell me where I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3138	You didn't warn him, since, telling the truth, he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. The floods come and go, and they lasted 12 years and in Vojvodina for 15 years, and their leader sold boats and therefore increased human casualties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3139	Do you want to vote? (No) Thank you. (Marko Gavrilovic, from town: Replica. Please, very briefly. I won't give you two minutes. Say a few sentences and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3140	I'll be brief. In Obrenovac, firstly, there is no "great village". There's a Great Field. So, to instruct the gentleman that he must know where he was, if he's already gone there. Another finding, in the Great Field, the water was feet high, so the roofs couldn't fail, if you understand me, so no one without a roof in the Great Field lived or spent the winter. And that's where you're wrong. The other thing is, you call people who bring jobs into this country slave owners. This is very damaging to our country in further cooperation, not only with China, but also with other countries, because if they see how we look at them, they will very easily find other countries where they will invest their money. They don't have to do that with us. I understand that it is easy for you, and when you lack money, you will paint rooms in your community, take that money and settle down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3141	Ambassador, you promised me you'd be brief. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3142	But other people have to work fairly, to earn their salary and to be able to put together for a month. Basically the whole story, I'm sorry I had to tell you all this, and you didn't go to the scene and see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3143	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3144	Thank you. It seems to me that we at "Smederevo Irons" have much bigger problems than this unresolved property-legal relationship we're talking about. Even we couldn't hear much about it. Tens of thousands of parcels are mentioned, and we still don't know who the people who need access to are, how many such people, how many plots, why is all this under so much secrecy? It might surprise us if it wasn't all about "The Iron Smederev" under some big veil of secrets. I think it's precisely the case that shows that for the last four years, this amazing propaganda machine has been operating continuously, which is the only goal of hiding what is actually being done and actually taking money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens are likely to remember that in March 2015, Aleksandar Vucic said that Peter Kamaras and his professional team, who later, in a fight between the government and the same Kamaras, turned out to be his brother-in-law, pastor and other relatives and associates, that by the end of 2015 he would solve problems, cover the losses, run a second high furnace, make a profit, prepare Jelizara for privatisation, find a strategic partner, etc., etc. It all happened after the failed job with "Esmark", which probably put the prime minister himself at risk because, while the tender was still going on, he was making statements about how he wanted it to be just "Esmark" who would get the job, and then "Esmark" became the worst in the world, just as Kamaras then became the worst in the world, and the prime minister of the whole fight and the whole conflict he had called – a boy's fight. I think that citizens are obliged to know how much the boy's fight cost them, as Aleksandar Vucic called it, since very serious houses speak of the fact that the boy's fight cost the Serbian citizen 450m euros, and that during that time, "Smederevo" only collapsed and just sank into further debt. On several occasions, the economy ministry even paid for the foam, financially being punished for not wanting to publish a contract that was made with the management that was supposed to recover Jelizar within six months. We only heard one day that those who praised one another were the Kamaras and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and who convinced us that Jelizara was doing better than ever...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3145	Thank you. You've wasted group time. Replica. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3146	The President-in-Office, respected fellow MPs, when you enter negotiations with certain investors, are obviously always appetites on the side that want to buy a certain asset growing. And what was the biggest problem back then, which is in public and said, is the need for such a type of contract to be nominated by the European Union and the European Commission. Obviously, when certain investors want contracts of a type to create a certain type of monopoly, especially when it comes to "Smederevo Irons" and the steel market, it is simply not possible if you are dealing with the European Union. Thus, the government of the Republic of Serbia has, in any case, protected Serbia's interests, not only for good investment, but for the sake of the fact that 5,000 workers remain in their jobs. And that was the essence of everything. On the other hand, what should be said is that the debts that Serbia normally had and Serbia's budget, each year was a minimum grant of 100m euros of state aid. Therefore, whether it was during this firm or another, it simply costs Sartid this country. At this point, when we have the best company in China, those debts are gone. What has to be said is that the most significant thing that Hestil actually came to Serbia, a company that has a globally employed number of 120,000 workers, which has over 70 companies in 30 countries, which annually generates $43.7 billion in revenue, and the total capital for 2015 was $50 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3147	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from Bor, where RTB Bor is a great business giant who, by its characteristics, is very similar to the characteristics of the combined Smederevo. I've been there over 40 years, and I've had a lot of experience working in the economy. That's why I'd like to shed some light on one side of the business that's not very present. What's a parallel between these two combinations? In that they have been the economic giants that the Serbian economy has relied on in recent decades. In the last 10 or 15 years, they haven't. There was a collapse because of the loss of a quality and healthy strategy for the development of the two companies. Also, there has been political interference in the work of companies, companies, not only in the two, but also in other companies in Serbia, and it is normal that this collapse has caught a big wave and, unfortunately, it is taking place today. The basic characteristics of such a business are the losses that are achieved in the long term. They have particularly come to terms in recent years. It has already been mentioned for Smederevo that the losses in 2014 amounted to 134m euros, 2015 142, a total of 276m euros for the two years. There's a question of responsibility mentioned here. You know when a loss is made, the management of any company in the world puts a notebook under the mouse and leaves if it doesn't do something worse with them. It's a similar thing in Bora. It is not known that in 2014 he suffered a loss of 116m euros, in 2015 of 114, a total of 230. When those two numbers add up, we get $506 million in losses in these two companies. Half a million dollars in losses in just the two companies. They're not the only ones in Serbia. There are many, which means the strategy of business development is not on healthy feet. That's why I'm expressing my skepticism that this strategy that we're talking about today will be fruitful in Smederev and will produce results. Based on these indicators, both technological, economic and environmental, I am absolutely certain, as a man of great experience, that we cannot secure a stable business of the company in the coming period. The basic feature of the internal business of each company is rentability. That in Smederev, as in Bora, has been gone for many years. On what basis do we expect it? Based on what projections we expect to stabilise our business so that incomes can always overcome costs. Another much more important feature of business is the competitiveness of the company that is being achieved on the market. The company's competitiveness is a very important feature of work. It is normal that both Bor and Smederevo in a long number of years failed to become competitive companies on the market both domestically and internationally. That is why I think that with such a strategy and with such non-transparent contracts and business conditions, we can build on Serbia's papokin's villages, but we cannot make successful economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3149	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3150	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I will say that a man is free to choose and choose his own path, as well as to make the right decisions, but he must make the consequences of the decisions made. That's why, I'll give my vote for this authentic interpretation, unlike those who suggest bankruptcy. If I were in another country, I might think bankruptcy is a solution for some economic operators. In Serbia, no one has that experience, or has it in a very small amount. The bankruptcy is usually in our possession of the liquidation. First of all, bankruptcy managers, sale of property, liquidation of businesses and workers go to the streets, unlike those who have had all the time of this world and the past 12 years to solve all the problems of our economy and our society, who have been giving us advice tonight, suggestions, offered their good services, were able to solve both "Sartid" and a million other businesses in Serbia who have not sought to disappear precisely because of their savage and brotherly privatisation. What I'm going to mention is that this decision and this contract that was made with "Hestilla" is something phenomenal for the Republic of Serbia, something good first of all for the town of Smederevo and that's something good after 36 years of stagnation, 36 years that Jelizara in Smederevo doesn't work full capacity. In some wonderful years, in the 1980s, exactly in 1980, Jelizara Smederevo worked at full capacity and produced two million tonnes of steel annually. In that period, from 1970 to 1980, 13% participated in the total exports of the then state. The metal sector in the Republic of Serbia is currently employing around 130,000 workers. Do you know how much it means if we recover Smederjevska Želizara and Željzara Smederevo at this point starts working on some much higher capacities than it did in the past few years, especially in that period since that wonderful decision in 2011 to shut down the steel mill and sell out? What do we expect from the launch of production in Želizara Smederevo? First of all, the capacity will be opened and the limit will be produced, I suppose, for car manufacturers as well. Here's our "Fiat". Then as a patriot's local, I'm thinking that someone should wallow and burn high in Smedereva, which probably hasn't been reconstructed in years. This was once wonderfully done by the King's Magnochrom, while it was not destroyed by the wonderful privatisation and sale of property, which was transferred to Kosovo. What brings us this investor from China, who is highly positioned as a steel producer? It brings us exactly what we lack – better technologies, better organisation of work and other philosophy of work. Also, it secures the market and I expect it to invest, and the contract is intended, in other lines. First of all, I think of other production programs, and first of all in galvanization, which at one point was a major driver in the Ironworks themselves. In the end, I'll end up with what everyone's mentioned many times tonight. The sale, i.e. finding a strategic partner, will save at least 100m euros each year to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3151	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3152	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that some MPs attribute SNS responsibility for everything that works in this country, which is also natural. But when you assign SNS to responsibility for the break-up of the steel market, it's really fragrant to me. When you talk today about how the steel market works and why the Serbian steel market, which is 0.5% of the world's steel production, is bad, then it is likely that SNS is responsible because "Mitel", the largest steel company, ended up with eight billion dollars in losses in 2015. Then the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are responsible that the steel ones in England have a loss of £500 million and lower. Eight to ten thousand jobs have been lost in recent months. Italy's largest steel company is going to privatise for losses. The Serbian Progressive Party is to blame that the price of steel was $333 extremely. The Serbian Progressive Party is responsible for putting up with the pressures of dumped policy on the EU, US and China steel market in the United States. They're right when they say we're not sticking to the agenda, but I simply have to remind the MPs of the fact that Zelizar in Smederev did not come from Joseph Broz Tito's will. When you forget the whole history of Serbia, which started somewhere in the 19th century and had responsible leaders who wanted to grow and develop Serbia, then you should say that Zelizara in Smederev started to be made on February 20th, 1913, about 100 years ago, that wise and smart people realized that without industry and growth in the economy could not grow a single society. Somehow, we from the SNS, who are leading Serbia today, have had this accident that in decades behind us some people who led this Serbia have not been paying too much attention to the economy and have led to poor indicators of the functioning of the business in Serbia. To talk today about Serbia's economy and the inherited situation in the complex, it's simply a mental noun. To talk about economic principles, theories in a society that doesn't work, talk about capital and negative capital in an economy that doesn't exist, it's really unnecessary. Therefore, the contribution of SNS and Alexander Vukic to the realization of the project "Hestil" in Željezara Smederevo is in fact one mission and vision that is approximately equal to that when people set out to create a new hardware in the early 19th century. If today in Serbia, in conditions where, as I said, the total almost decay on the steel market, you bring a company that is 239 per value of capital in the world, which employs 120,000 people, 37 large furnaces, which is the largest steel producer in the world's first or second largest economy, however you look at it, then you can only say that the wishes Serbia has and the price Serbia pays for economic growth is the price that leads Serbia forward. The authentic interpretation is, in fact, today, the answer of all of us to the bad policy and the bad order we've had for the last 40 years. The problem of authentic interpretation actually has social capital. When some lines passed around Jelizara in 1945, 1948, and 1954, not that there were no construction permits, no property relations were resolved. Something you've been trying to solve for decades. It's not only the problem with Jelizara in Smederev, this authentic opinion refers to her, but you have the same problem with all the institutions and public enterprises that own the network, when you don't have defined property relations during the time before us. We say and say very clearly that this authentic opinion actually needs to solve the problem that is accumulated and concerning property relations. I'm here, to be honest, I have nothing to add to the presentation of the authentic lawyers who explained everything, but this interpretation is actually based on the Law on the acquisition of property and land rights. If you look at that law, that's where it's pulling in, you have from 1st to 7th members more or less regulated all relationships, the entire property. It's nothing controversial, and it shouldn't be. In article 8, you are talking about the economic effects of both this law and the laws that are based on it and what are the economic effects. Economic effects are 300m euros in investment in "Zelezar Smederevo". The economic effects are 70% of the Law of Law because when we talked about legislation, then we talked about the Law of Property on the Land "Smederevo Irons", mainly about the law of objects owned by natural persons. You know what, and "Zelezara Smederevo" is one huge industrial project that has been developing for hundreds of years, has no resolved building and use permits. It's a Serbian economy, it's a Serbian society, it's a Serbian industry we're trying to change and make better. Why is the contribution of Alexander Vukic and the SNS important for the functioning of the economy? Today, when you cross Corridor 10 and look at Smederev, there's a high furnace burning there. Some steel is poured there, there in a year, two days, although someone may not believe it, there will be 300m euros in investments for cold-rolled limes. Today when you go to Smederevo, people have a feeling there's hope for them. The future is what was changed by this contract. The future for both Smedereva and Serbia is crucial. When 5,000 people work at the Irons, then you can't talk about bankruptcy, then you can't talk about nonsense, pay for wages, profit, contribution, commitment, because that company has a negative capital. That company doesn't exist. If Serbia tries not to follow the pace of industrialisation and tries to save everything it can, we have a serious industrial future. I wish that we MPs were probably not the subject, it's not the time, it's not the place when we talk about the investments that the state of Serbia gives to individual foreign and domestic investors, sit down and clear out what they're actually talking about, whether they're talking about classical economic theory, whether they're talking about the Kansas model, about Milton Friedman, what they're talking about when they're talking about investments and subsidies that the state of Serbia is giving to its producers. It's hard to believe today that in conditions where you have a fully-Kanesian operating system in a nearby environment and in the whole world, which involves donations to the economy sector, you're acting differently. If the state of Serbia has GDP growth in this year, if "The Irons" has contributed with 1% of GDP, and we expect it to be 3.40% in the next period of time, then all this seems to be within "The Irons" and the laws that we in the National Assembly are in fact only supporting the government's goal of making Serbia economically stronger and more stable, of course, state arrangements.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3153	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Tatjan Macur, and let Tijana the Davidite be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3154	Ladies and gentlemen, tonight's debate is an authentic interpretation of article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land in buildings and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel “Smederevo Iron” from Smederevo. I have the impression that there is some kind of vicious circle in which foreign investors and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the public, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are spinning. Those who dictate the pace in that so-called. In a vicious circle, not to say in the secret contracts they sign, are actually foreigners, or most often false foreign investors. The government of the Republic of Serbia unnecessarily agrees with any blackmail, any less or more legitimate demands coming from a foreign investor. So today, citizens of the Republic of Serbia or the general public have been denied a number of very important contracts signed in the last few years by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including a contract related to "Smederevo Iron". To meet the demands of the so-called so-called government of the Republic of Serbia. Rescuers, she was forced to keep all negotiations secret and keep all signed contracts and contract annexes secret as well. Behind a series of such negotiations, agreements and final agreements concerning the work of "Smederevo" and its assets, today we have a debt left on the burden of only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you have such a regular way of working, the way the Government of the Republic of Serbia practically does not interfere with its business and instead of protecting the interests of the state and its citizens, it does everything the opposite, so it often goes public with different information, semi-information, different interpretations of its own decisions and ultimately different decisions, it clearly points to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Prime Minister, does not know what it is doing or people's words – we can question that something important is valid under the grain. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Serbia applies all available methods to ensure its positions and positions of its business partners, i.e. benefiting from the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, uses authentic interpretations of lex specialis and so on. However, in a state where there is no rule of law, where you have no legal certainty, where there is no system, no method to apply, you will not be provided, you cannot be provided. To discuss today this subject of at least three sides, which are Chinese investors, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens, whose land is also concerned, we do not have all the necessary sides, i.e. We didn't hear the word of the citizens, that we would ever enforce a law like this. The current debt of "Smederevo" is 450m euros or, to bring the citizens of the Republic of Serbia closer so that I can say this figure in my domestic currency, it is more than 52 billion dinars and this debt is growing. As long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, treats the state and its citizens this irresponsiblely, we will not stop from such a bill. Now I'm going to take this moment, since we have plenty of time, authentic interpretation of the law, to address the Madam President, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3155	If you think it's a subject, feel free.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3156	It's not a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3157	It's not a theme? You're free, I won't stop you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3158	It's not a subject, but we can do something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3159	Suit yourself. Okay. The word has Tijana Davidovac and let the MP Sasa Radulovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3160	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, after two and a half years of hard work and effort, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided "The Irons Smederevo" to a strategic partner, a huge world scale in steel production, which has been Serbia's greatest economic success in the past 20 years. "Zelezara Smederevo" has almost a hundred-year tradition. In Europe, it is known for the production of steel, hot and cold-rolled products and white lime. The "Gelezzare" plants are located at three locations, in Smederev, Šapac and Kučev, on an area of about a million squares, the number of employees around 5,000 workers, which tells us that "Gelezara" has an extremely strategic importance, both for the Republic of Serbia and for the region. This government has managed to secure a double price for "The Iron". Today, when the price of steel is at a historic minimum, it was sold for 46m euros, which was above the minimum price of the public call, while in 2003, when the market was far better, the then government sold "Zelezar" for 23m dollars and put both furnaces out in 2012 and employees were sent away for paid leave. At this price, the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, provided a $30m investment by Hestila, the second largest Chinese company to have income of $43.7 billion in the past year, while the total value of the funds amounted to over $53 billion at the end of 2015. At global level, the company employs 120,000 workers, while the annual production capacity is 50 million tonnes of steel. The company is based on the implementation of the most advanced technological solutions and the cleanest technologies, with constant investment in its research centres, education and training of its employees. The investment I mentioned in the amount of $30 million refers to investment in fixed assets and infrastructure. The aim is to modernise equipment, improve efficiency, expand the scope of the production programme and improve the ecological environment. The arrival of Hestila in "Zelezar Smederevo" is the largest investment project in the region. This investment has provided security for 20,000 family members whose daily life depends on the salaries of employees in "The Irons". As a result of the functioning of the "Steels", the projected GDP growth of 3.8% has been ensured, half of which is thanks to this investment. This interpretation will legalise decades-long problems related to the status of facilities and land of Jelizara, which is an important prerequisite for further recovery of "The Ironworks". For the first time, we will be able to look at the full property legal capacity of "The Irons". This practice will also be supported in the next period in any situation that contributes to the closure of a reliable, predictable and transparent business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3161	I thank you for your letters. Sasa Radulovic, let Krsto Janjusevic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3162	Thank you. We were listening to the debate, and I'm going to go back to the essential questions that we've asked the promoter. We've heard it's about ten thousand parcels, that's what we got after this presentation, which is about this right of official approach, which means that there's a large number of citizens of natural persons or legal persons affected by this law. It would be really fair for all these citizens to know that the law that applies to them is being passed, since the way this is explained nowhere is so not mentioned, but it is said that the law has no influence whatsoever. As far as the contract itself is concerned, he practically shows all of us and Serbian citizens that there are no "lex specialis" laws in Serbia for each individual case where the government wants to solve something, in this case we have for Jelizara Smederevo, we have "lex specialis" for "Belgrade on Water", so wherever something appears, the investor gets his own law. Also, we have a problem for the state, I think the investor orders authentic interpretation from the National Assembly. I don't think this is supposed to be happening, that there has to be a system where all of this works together. We have also heard a lot about "Zelezari" Smederevo and how this has come to date, somehow we get the impression that it is this executive authority, that today is still 2012 and that they are still in power of Tadic and Pajtic, and that we are practically talking about them, not that it has been four years since then and that nothing has changed practically. This shows the level of responsibility, because once you take responsibility for running the country you really need to take responsibility for everything that's going on. I understand that the price of steel, that it was raining, was flooding, there were all sorts of things going on, however, the fact is 270m euros was made a loss in 2014. The list of assets wasn't done, none of these things were done. We have only heard the Prime Minister's statements since 22 March 2015, which he says – you are now in safe hands. Looks like those hands weren't safe. What is a major problem for the citizens of Serbia is that "Gelezara" itself wasn't bought by investors but was bought by "Glevera" property, i.e. it was a major sale of "Zelezara" property. ‘Smederevo d.o.o. Unfortunately, it remained with debts of about 52 billion dinars, this data is from the financial reports of the Zelizara for 2015. We don't know how much loss he's lost in the meantime. Unfortunately, these will have to be borne by the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. The message we send to small and medium-sized enterprises is that you see these 450m euros in total loss that will have to be taken over by the Republic of Serbia, because of the way the government has decided to restructure and bring this "lex specialis", is that this money is about 10% reduction of tax interventions, which could instead of such exhibitions to actually introduce order in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, our economy is failing, we have these "lex specialis" laws that try to solve this kind of thing, in fact, are in themselves the definition of legal uncertainty. The definition that there is no rule of law, that there are no clear property rights, that the procedures are not clear. It's just that Serbia doesn't have a system. It's the worst message we send with every "lex specialis" law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3163	Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3164	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable fellow Members, we all stand for the system here, but the system should apply to all and to those who had 16 firms, were bankrupt managers, who took 22 million from the state, 750 thousand to the final work for so many hours as bankruptcy managers, and to see how these companies were actually in their bankruptcy proceedings, whether they hired new people, created new jobs, found strategic partners, or went bankrupt, into bankruptcy and sold-out assets in vain. So it's a system of values that requires the responsibility of all participants. So, not since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday, but from the last 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3165	Yes, go ahead. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3166	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. On what basis did Mrs. Tomic receive a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3167	Based on item 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3168	Says who?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3169	Based on Section 3, you've got it in your Rules of Procedure. So I'm a lawyer, Section 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3170	Who mentioned her to get her a line?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3171	He's authorized, how can I explain it to you? I can't explain it to you for months. Article 104(3) Really, it's too late, I can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3172	If I may say so, you fascinate me, interpret the Rules of Procedure as a heretic of the Bible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3173	How? Didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3174	Well, don't follow, see, it's the second time you've asked me to repeat something. Don't follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3175	Really. Okay. It's all right, I accept the views and opinions of the MPs. There, I'm not following and I'm back in line, but Article 104(3). Really, well-meaningly, I'm trying as your senior colleague to help as much as I can, but it's not going, what can I do. The word has Sasa Radulovic, a replica on the same basis. It's not mentioned, your group isn't mentioned, but I've estimated that it's been identified in all these bankruptcys and it's my right to give it a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3176	The only right that exists here is the right of the stronger and the right of the taster you have, since I have not mentioned in any word the ruling party, I was talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and as far as I know this is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the attempt to insult, since that's the only answer we get, I won't pay attention to that, it's always a sign of great weakness, or lack of arguments. What I will return to is, since 2012, when the state unfortunately took over the "Zelezar" for a dollar at that time, the debts have been zero and they have so far been a successful leader, "Zelezara" from 2012 to 2016 grew to 450m euros. As for those old debts we've also heard about, it was made in the '90s. Yes, it was about the first privatization of "The Irons" of huge problems and malfeasance, Verica Barac spoke about it, she made criminal reports that spoke about what was going on, but all these proceedings were unfortunately stopped, or evidence was found, but all investigations were simply stalled. Therefore, a little responsibility is needed and we cannot constantly blame someone else, we have here four years of irresponsible government behaviour that has no solution for economic problems and for creating a system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3177	The word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3178	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, solved property-legal problems are the basis for bringing foreign investors. Solved property-legal relations are the most fundamental thing in the conversation with investors and what is their first question. We need to look back on what we inherited after 2012, and we inherited a lot of problems that were pushed under the carpet. We inherited laws that were passed at a time when the law was not taken into account. Now, as we talk about this very successful project, there are some stories here about some slaves and connections between the Chinese and the slaves. Well, I'd like to read the statement of one, under the great sign of the "slave", which works in "The Irons" and which he gave to the media. He says: “Look, my colleague and I have been working at the Ironworks for 39 years and a month, and we are getting a pension; indeed, I can tell you that the position of the factory workers is good and in time is improving; we also have a union that is fighting for us; our wages are solid, everything is correct, I would not complain about anything. This contract signing is of great importance to us. I think we'll be better off next year. The prime minister has great support for the workers. Look at how many people have gathered here to support our company's progress." That's what one of the "slaves" said. The Prime Minister's been to Smederev 15 times. The president of China was once in Smederev, so it can be said that the president of China has been more than once in "The Irons" than many officials of the former ruling coalition today give us lessons. I'm going to rely on an anecdote on the origin of "The Irons", and they say the former president of a former state was in Smederevo and asked them -- what you're familiar with, they said -- by grapes. He didn't hear it well, figured it out by the iron and let the Iron make it there, they say. However, I think that many years after him, a prime minister, I believe by phone, because he didn't like to go around Serbia, asked the citizens of Smederev what they were missing, they told him - we lack iron, and he realized they lacked grapes. Well, then it's better than the state's subsidies made one nice vineyard. If he sent them any grapes, we haven't been informed yet. We have a lot of suggestions here, and when a personal card is mentioned, I just can't help but figure it out. The former minister is on his way to legislate and look for ID cards in companies... (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: Is this a standup show? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3179	A little courtesy, don't insult me. Resist really from insulting yourself. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Well, what is this? That's a speech, MP. You're in parliament. (Sasa Radulovic, from the scene: This speech? Shame on you, really! You underestimate the MPs here. You underestimate Serbian citizens who voted for MPs. You're a censor. You determine who is worthy of listening, who is not worthy of listening in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3180	I'll send them my Rules of Procedure to keep them in the air, since they don't have many Rules of Procedures. It's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3181	I thank you, because I had to react, because this is a profound insult to MPs in parliament and sharing those who are as worthy of attention and those who do not know how to speak. It hurt me deeply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3182	He said that ID cards are based on what privatization is done. I'm now analyzing how he realized his personal card project. Then he found that some companies had sent out ID cards containing bad financial reports, over-inflated financial reports. Unfortunately, there was that. The minister says to them: sell your supplies and share your wages. And at that time, his property card says, "saving zeroes," and he says on one television that he lives out of savings. It's a fine example of a personal card he gave to the companies he asked for it. I'm surprised he expected them to follow in his footsteps. Here we come to a very interesting moment, a discovery. We need to analyze this. I see this as a chance, because that capacity we have here. How did you sell the zero? How did you manage to live from nothing? Don't be selfish about this country. Share that secret with us. You're right, we've been hit by a lot of things, and floods and slides and rains and debts in 2012 of 240m euros "The Irons". We were also struck by the fact that you were the minister. We've been hit by a lot of things. Someone here mentioned football, president, so I don't get to be the one who's taking a lot of turns on the subject, and I'll be in the topic here's why. It is very important that one who criticises and gives us advice says something about himself. So his CV is full of titles, but there's no point. When they mentioned football, they reminded me of an event that would help me expose this demagogue economy. I mean, I had a chance to play in a tournament and we took a goal from the center. We looked at the goalie astonishedly, he says, "It's nothing I've ever received." I have an impression, Mr. Radulovich, that if a man asked you about the way you ran those firms in bankruptcy, and you were as honest as our goalie, that the answer would be somewhere -- it's nothing like I know how to destroy the company. Finally, I'm finishing up, Mr. Radulovic, "The Iron Man" has arranged her ID card, and are you yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3183	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3184	Are you sure he mentioned me this time? You're safe this time, aren't you? Very nice. Since I'm not going to react to these things, this really offends the dignity of the National Assembly, when you have no arguments, and that's true for all people, when they have no arguments, then they reach for the lies, for the twisting of the subject. However, I will return them to the topic, as that is the only thing that is important for the citizens of Serbia, which is that "Zeljezara" in 2014 and 2015 made a loss of 270m euros. That's about 50,000 euros per employee, that the total loss of the Irons today, i.e. the debt that Irons has after the sale of the property is 450m euros. That's almost 100,000 euros per employee. This is the price of irresponsibility. Now, running away from it, telling the truth, saying the things that are known to be false, is just an attempt to escape from the difficult reality in which, unfortunately, all Serbian citizens live. The government has no solution for economic problems and for the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as plans to leave the crisis are concerned, they are very clear, as restructuring has been done in the world for over 100 years, it is known that these personal cards are actually a list of assets, a list of liabilities, a list of market analysis, a financial plan. It's the way you do restructuring everywhere in the world. Then it also connects the work internship, pays the backlogs and salaries, pays the severance fees. That was the plan that stood on the table. Whoever's interested, we can sit down and talk about him in detail. That plan was stopped by Alexander Vukitch. That's why I resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3185	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3186	This, I think, will be the shortest replica in this House's history. Mr. Radulovich, you're a smart man. [[Saša Radulović, from town: How do I replica?]] It's not worth explaining to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3187	No, you told him he was lying about it. He told you you were smart. So I can't give you a replica. It'll look like you're not smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3188	Reversing from the subject. I'm thanking you for this space I'm being given. I will, I'll read it again, since obviously we haven't heard well enough. So in 2014 and 2015, "Zeljezara" lost 270m euros. That's over 50,000 euros per employee. The total losses of Željere Smederevo, i.e. the debt it has today, i.e. at the end of 2015, are 52 billion dinars, i.e. around 450m euros. That's almost 100,000 euros per employee. We have huge taxes and contributions in the state. The whole economy is going down and you can see the price of irresponsibility and incompetence of the government. This kind of loss. It just has to stop, we have to put in order, there has to be a system. Warm water is made up. It is known how these things are done and what should happen is that there is knowledge and that there is political will. What is also very important in all of this, employees know, most of the economy is due to irresponsibility in 2014 and 2015, all that remains of the Privatisation Agency has practically gone into bankruptcy. People lost their backs, no work experience, no severances. Surely citizens watching this transfer of the Assembly are recognized in this. This could have been resolved, that is, if the plan that was put on the table had been accepted, it would have been resolved by now. Believe it or not, there is a solution. It is in the introduction of order and it is possible to meet all obligations and to place the economy on healthy feet. It's something that citizens need to know, and we can continue with these vast, pointless replicas. I'm going to do the same thing every time, because we're not going to turn around on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3189	Just don't insult the MPs, pointlessly, stupidly, you're lying, etc. Can I help you, Member of the Parliament? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. It's mentioned by the SNS. Here you go. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: absolutely not. Really? And who makes the power, which parties? Remember when you were in that government? You had a good time, and you didn't object. And you know exactly what the parties in the government are and you know how parliament... . (Sasa Radulovic throws. You didn't, you didn't, until the Prime Minister kicked you out of that same government. So, everything was fine and you knew how parliament was breathing and we were answering you, we weren't bothering you as chairman, everything was great. Now let's hear from the head of the Parliament Group, because you mentioned the SNS that is the ruling party in this country. You know very well, you just don't like to hear the answer. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3190	Thank you, Madam President. The gentleman's professional bankruptcy manager ran twice. He fled from the government in 2013 and fled in 2016, here, from the National Assembly with a consultation with the Prime Minister for Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic. And Mr. professional bankruptcy manager, the only thing he can do in life is lie and steal. To steal, we've seen that before. How? When you run a bankruptcy procedure at 15 companies, when you and your own wife's company are closing an accounting service contract, it's stealing. And where is he lying? So the man reiterated 100 times that the debts of "Sartid" in 2014 and 2015 were first said, 450 million, and 150 million, respectively, and 120 million, and in 2012, when Sartid was returned to the property of the Serbian state, it was taken over by one euro with a debt of 240m euros, and that is what a professional bankruptcy manager persistently deceives Serbian citizens and will not say. I'd like to hear, for example. where is now the godfather of a gentleman of bankruptcy, the one who robbed the BIP. One best man's an MP, the godfather's a messenger, and I don't know what he's talking about. It is a system that Mr. Sasa Radulovic wants to promote in Serbia, for him to be a bankruptcy manager. He's a little short on 15 companies. The entire Serbian economy should go bankrupt and be a bankruptcy manager in all enterprises that will go bankrupt in Serbia, somewhere he, somewhere the woman, somewhere godfather, for workers, for Serbia, what we care about. Here, it's the system of Mr. Professional Bank Manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3191	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3192	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104 and 107. First, this replica lasted much longer than the intended two minutes, 40 seconds, and second, Article 107. - You hurt the dignity of the National Assembly because you did not warn the previous speaker who told his fellow direct address that he only knew he was lying and stealing. I think it's an insult that isn't worthy of this place. The SNS are getting it. I will also tell you why, since I will not answer you directly, I am speaking to the President of Parliament. You yourself said that Mr. Radulovic was one of the ministers in the previous government that you voted for. Many of you voted here and supported his choice and then had the best words about the Minister of Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3193	Who are you replicating to, please? Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3194	I told you, article 107, and I'm explaining to you why dignity was injured, because there are two different arches, then when you're in partnership with someone and when you're trying to degrade the arguments that we heard today in the debate that was open and where there was no willingness, apparently, the ruling majority to hear the arguments, as well as MPs, there was enough, and so were the MPs of DS and other opposition MP groups. I think that just shows that this is not the way to conduct the debate, and that's why I've shown you that you've certainly violated article 107 and, of course, 104, which you've seen on this dial of a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3195	Article 104 does not apply to replica times. I took the MP 56 seconds. He started talking in 56 seconds. I wrote down here on paper exactly 56 seconds, so I'd know how much time to give him. He used 49 seconds over two minutes. I was trying to explain it to you on the way. I knew what you were gonna tell me. I don't think I hurt Article 107. I ask MP Martinovic no longer to tell MP Radulovic to steal and lie. Please, don't make it look like I'm hurting the Rules of Procedure, if that's possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3196	I called in for... (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What do you want? Here you see - what do you want? I don't want anything from you. I just want to say for the president of the National Assembly... (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: This is a farce. Come on, yell a little more. Let Mr. Bosko Obradovic yell at me, it will be easier for him. He's used to yelling. He'll be fine, Mrs. Gojkovic, so he doesn't go physically to deal with you. He likes to do it, especially when it comes to women, but I hope you'll be better off tonight than the lady at RIK who turned his hand. I won't answer for any more damage to the Rules of Procedure. I want to say next. Since Mr. Ciric said that I resent the dignity of the National Assembly by mentioning one fact... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He cannot harm his own Rules of Procedure. I don't like to enter the word of Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3197	Let go, everybody's got a picture of themselves in public. You're the only one who's talking, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3198	I injured the dignity of the National Assembly by presenting the fact that Saša Radulovic, as a bankruptcy manager in one of the 15 bankruptcys he ran, concluded a contract with his own wife's company to provide accounting services. Now I ask all of you, are you all one-sided when it comes to fighting Alexander Vukic and hating Alexander Vukic? Imagine what would happen if Alexander Vukitch had concluded a contract with his wife? I was showing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3199	MP, it's been two minutes. You've called the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3200	... The one with the three crosses. I think that at 150 crosses, Alexander Vukic would have been crucified if he had done it, but when Sasa Radulovic does, then insults the dignity of the National Assembly of those who say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3201	I understand. Thank you. Now we're going back on the subject, take it easy. I'm in good shape to run a session, don't worry about anything. Do not shout at the Messenger, whatever you wish. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Did I say that? You got up and you yelled at him – whatever you want now. Okay, I know, there's short legs in a lie. (Saša Radulovic, from town: That's right. ) So, you can see everything in the video we have both audio and video. That's what you were yelling at. Second, Ambassador Obradovic, don't shout and don't threaten the O.R. I'm asking you to. So, I'm not breaking 107, and I'm kind of not applying measures, so in that sense, maybe I could start applying measures, because we're really on the verge of violence. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: How can you do this? It is, so it is. (Bosko Obradović, from town: This is ridiculous. No one was yelling. It's funny, you don't respect me at all, or my age, or being a woman, or really trying to let everyone say what they want, have one broad debate, but then you yell when someone else says something that you don't like. Yes, it is. Serbia is very politically different. We have a wide range of parties here, so everyone can say what they think on behalf of their constituents. Then don't shout. Whatever you want. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Who was yelling? The MP wants a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's it. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: We know that you are in direct transmission, that kind of thing is a little... I don’t even know I’m on a direct transmission and I don’t suffer for it at all. There you are, and you're still yelling, etc. So, 107th MP, you asked the question, 107th with MP Martinovic I will communicate. Thank you for not voting even though I think there are elements, because I don't apply the measures of warning and taking away words and I think there are elements. I have to delete the list. Sasa Radulovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3202	Thank you. I don't know if you're aware, the chairman, but Mr. Martinovic spoke, so Mr. Ćirić advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you gave Mr. Martinovic an injury to the Rules of Procedure on what he was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3203	You can't rephrase to me. You can tell me which MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3204	I'm saying what, this is my replica of what you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3205	No, no, you can't do that to me. (Saša Radulović, from the place: How did you hurt the Rules of Procedure...) ) Here, I have now excluded you from me showing you that I respect your opinion and that I can no longer give any more thought to the replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go. Thank you for your applause and support. Ivan Manojlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3206	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the second item on the agenda was a provision that requires authentic interpretation, I don't want this opportunity to read it, because many, many times we've had a chance to hear what this is about tonight. It's really one very simple thing. We wanted to avoid any ambiguous interpretation in this way. This provision really settles one very important issue, the right to official access, crossing over cadastrian parcels under which the “Steelwaters” are located, and that is all. Since we have in parliament today an opposition that is led by a motto – why should it be simple when it can be complicated, we have been having this debate for several hours. What I want to say is that it is indeed an honor to speak in the congregation today about “Smederevo Irons. ” It is an honor to meet you because it is now "Smederevo Iron" an indicator of Alexander Vukic's responsible policy. The indicator is taking care of the citizens of Serbia. The indicator is that SNS is important for every job. I am also honored because it is precisely in the case of the "Smederevo Irons" that the SNS does not give up any problem in the country even when there are those advocates, who most often come from political parties that have changed presidents more frequently than weather forecasts. Indeed something that has been achieved on the Smederevo Irons case, which should be pointed out, is a gross social product of 2%, out of 3.8%. What I also want to say is that more than obvious that citizens have recognized it on April 24th, but if some are not clear, here is what a new survey has been done today, according to the data, which is being carried out by Factor Plus, citizens today would still give 51.4% of SNS. And you can spread your demagogue as much as you want. It is about the fact that "Smederevo Iron" is on its way today. If you want to go back to a short one chronology, I don't want to take too much time. We also heard that DS was in charge of selling SARTID, we heard data on various write-offs, etc. What is not mentioned is that along with "Smederevo Iron", "US Steel" is given maltene at that time and half of Smedereva. Half of the Smederevs including the Smederevo port were estranged, so this government had to put things back in place. When you so tenderly gave that one dollar on 31 January 2012, for "Smederevo" to return to you, the government said that no potential buyer was contacted during the takeover, but analyses were made. Imagine. When it was added to this, the fact that the government had previously been notified in July 2011, so eight months before "Smederevo" was returned, the previous one was so concerned about the workers of "Smederevo" that they did not find them within eight months to contact any potential buyer. Of course, elections were held on 6 May and 2012, and I guess this had to be pushed under the carpet and eight days after the contract was terminated, the work of "Smederevo Irons" was interrupted for a month. Also, what is very important to say is that the government then agreed to be a guarantee of all payments made during the period when "US Steel" managed, commitments made to third parties. Today, Hensel employs 5,000 workers, and perhaps they are not so important to you. We really care about every job, but this is about 20,000 people who have been saved to say so, which represents almost 1/3 of the population of Smederev. There were speakers here who, of course, are not in the O.R. very often. And last time I answered the word, I couldn't pass on his name, and I didn't want to mention his name this time, and it was about some comparison of "Smederevo Iron" with the other 17 companies, so by the way, he mentioned "The Five-year-old," and he said that by thinking about this government, a job that they didn't do right. To see how they did the job right. They hired over 300 members in the first five-year-old company alone from Triestenik, people who were similar to that government and 30m euros spilled on workers' salaries. With these 30m euros, they were not thinking of restoring the machinery, rebuilding the industry in "The First Five-years", but simply from month to month only grants were granted to keep Mladjan Dinkic in power. Also, they fired the workers by program for five years until retirement and it doesn't make any sense. The best and most experienced workers were leaving, and only the directors remained. In the pre-election campaign, Jabba paid a man to sit under the umbrella and guard his billboard, "The First Five-year-old" from Tristenik reached a debt of 100m euros, and the value of "The First Five-year-old" was estimated at 30m. After the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party, workers founded the company and from the severances, here's how it works when responsible authorities arrive, with a 500-euro stake they took the "First Five-year-old" to rent. Today, "The First Five-year-old" has 900 workers, 800 "The First Five-year-old" and 100 in zaptics, and they have exactly the same traffic as in the previous period when 1,800 employees were employed in this company, most of them party staff. Now, this is household business, this is responsible business. With twice as many workers, the same traffic is achieved, and today the state does not touch this company as it was obliged to do at one time so that workers would receive only wages. What is still a benefit of this kind of business is that both workers and local self-government and the state of Serbia benefit from such businesses. He also touched "14. October’. He's in town where I come from. So, “14. October" was estimated at 20 billion dinars, four billion dinars plus debt, almost 20 billion dinars, and only the comparisons for Jellyzar's sake have just been sold for about four billion dinars. You see clearly and absolutely how bankrupt the managers, the ones that are currently gone, overestimated the company's capital. It is mentioned that "14. October has problems, however, the Czech "Tatra" is still interested and has sent a letter of intent, but of course it is waiting for the estimated capital of this company to be in some normal frameworks. In 2000, when the Democratic Party came to power, there were 36,200 employees, and in 2012, 24.600. That's how they did the job right. Also, the MPs here from one movement kept saying tonight that we should have asked the citizens about some lawmaking. Even here, the former minister said he was against the law. First of all, we haven't passed any laws here today, it was simply an authentic interpretation of a member. Secondly, that it's against the law, which it shouldn't be, I really don't understand, and we think maybe it's even illegal to be against the law, but if he knew that, he probably would have known and respected the law and paid taxes in America. That is, the government reportedly has no solutions to the exit from the economic crisis according to their budget. In Kruševec, I am proud to say, they are soon opening, signing a contract with Kromberg and Shubert, a new bioenergy is opening, the Trajal has been saved. It's about saving everything we can save, and what's left of it was done just by the Democratic Party. Finally, I just want to get back to the beginning, "Hestil" is the pride of this government, "Hestil" is really something that we need not only us from this Parliament to be proud of, but the whole of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, because it is indeed an indicator of the work of this government and hope for the recovery of all other businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3207	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! On what basis, sir? (Balša Bozovic, from the city: The mention of the party. Well? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. He can't replicate, you can, Mr. Kiriq, win. (Balsa Bozovic, from the site: He is not in the system. He's not in the system? If you have a basis, you'll get one. [[Balša Bozovic, from town: Give me a replica.]] Just a minute. (Alexander Martinovic:, from the place Isn't this now a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, that a man sits in the hall and is not in the system? What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3208	We didn't talk about it. We didn't fight with you. Why can't I get the word? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Organize the DS stands, so give them a lecture, not to sit here SNS MPs... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3209	Mr. Bozovic, time is running out, and you can feel those two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3210	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. If you can give me back my time, because Mr. Martinovic won't even let me start my exposure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Arsic, don't let this happen. Let's all drop the cards. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3211	Mr. Martinovic, what are you excited about? Well, that's their manners. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the scene: Let that manner apply elsewhere. () Let the citizens of Serbia see what to stop them from doing that? Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3212	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, what is the biggest tragedy of the SNS is that in the end they always return to the beginning, so they always spin in circles and fail to come to the conclusion of what is actually right when it comes to Jelizara Smederevo and when it comes to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. For ten years, Yu Es Steel was the largest exporter in the Republic of Serbia. For ten years, it was the biggest revenue to Serbia's budget. Today, we have a company that works in a minus 450m euros and does not contribute to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but costs it and costs the citizens of Serbia because they have to pay those debts. This is the difference between the period that led DS for ten years with Ju Es Steele and the difference between what today is four years of SNS leading 52 billion dinars of loss. So whether it's Kamaras, whether it's an "Esmark", it's all the same. Theirs, as you say, cost Serbian citizens 450m euros. That's the point and that's the truth. Everything else we've heard today is just nervous because today we've been calling off all those big stories that broke like a balloon about the development of Smederov...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3213	Are you saying, Mr. Bozovic, that I was telling a lie?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3214	Not you, but your colleagues did. So, about the development of Smederev through the Iron or all of that neighborhood, because today we've called off all the lies you've been telling for the past four years. I think it's more than clear to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3215	You're bringing the end, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3216	I'm done. We never come back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3217	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3218	I, Mr Arsic, as president of the parliamentary group, have to worry among other things about the mental health of SNS MPs, and I do not want to expose them to mental and verbal terror by people who probably cannot organise their party's tribune anywhere in Serbia, so then the National Assembly comes to them as a convenient place. They won't listen to them either. Here, the president of the parliamentary group tells him he's not in the system, he's out of the system. One of my colleagues must be in the system, and he's in the system. My colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, what are we playing here? An auditorium that needs to listen to Balša Bozovic, who won't even be listened to by his own? So, Mr. Arsic, please have an understanding of my role. I'm a lawyer, but since I run a 102-seat parliamentary group, I also have to worry about their mental health. Believe me, it's very, very endangered tonight. Let the DS gentleman organize a stands anywhere in Serbia, but don't let us from the SNS provide an auditorium, let them do it themselves. Since they are unable to do so, let them not do so with SNS MPs. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3219	The replica because you held the stands? He is entitled to the replica of Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3220	Thank you. There's something a colleague could learn in those stands. I'm glad he's taking care of the mental health of his MPs, but we take care of the workers of the Smederjev "The Iron" and that's why we've been talking about it all day, because it's awkward and nervous in the ruling majority because the Smederjevska "The Iron" has been brought to ruin, and that's all you're still not going to tell anyone. That's what this is about. What you inherited from Smederjevska "Zelezar" with zero dinars of debt, with salaries ahead of six months each worker, and you led to a minus 450m euros, even though you said you were going to save the company. What happened? Who was selling raw materials? Where'd the money go? When did he make money on “the Irons ”? Who? (Alexander Martinović: ), from the town: Zeka. I think those who care about mental health have difficulty with that. I want to tell you that it is very important that we present this story and make it serious, because of those people who work at the modern-day Irons. They are in trouble today, and not the ruling majority should worry about the mental health of the ruling majority, but about workers in the modern-day Irons, who will be out of work tomorrow because you have given many to run a company that has put money in their pocket and made a debt of 450m euros, which will pay Serbian citizens with reduced salaries and pensions. That's what this is about. And you're in pain, I get that. You can insult me by tomorrow, but you have a problem with that. And we keep telling you to solve this problem in a way that will be painless for those who live and work in Smedereva. But you're avoiding it because you're not capable of such a thing. It's just your fault. You have to accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3221	The right to replica has Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3222	One psychologist said – people who have fear, to ask the question – who are you, they say – I am me. Here, Mr. Balsha, he's "we". Sit alone, the president of the parliamentary group is not in his system, Miss Jerkov is here, but, you know, right, for a group it takes three, and they're here right now and we're supposed to tremble at the fear of Balša Bozovic. I don't know how I'm going to sleep tonight, or Mrs Tomic, or Marijan Risticevic, I can see that he's dying of fear of Balša Bozovic. It's all great, I just have to say, because of the citizens of Serbia that in 2012, the debt was not zero, it was 240m euros. Secondly, I'd like to know where, Mr. Balsha, the Democratic Party stands, I'd like to visit her. Who organizes it on what subject? Is Bojan Bajtic organised by Miroslav Vasin, did Dragan Sutanovac, who has an apartment of 35,000 euros, organises Bislini, who said that Jesic took 60,000 euros from your party register? So, on which topic is the stands being held? In a tribune with a theme -- how to steal your own party, how to destroy Serbia's Army, how to get a 35 thousand-euro gift, how to fly to the Maldives for 15,000 euros? So, what's the theme of that stands for you, who's going to organize it, and when is it going to be held? Here, I'm ready to come to that stands and listen a little bit about how to destroy the Army, how to get a present of expensive watches, pastures, how to plant vineyards, and how to fly in Maldives with a salary of 100,000 dinars and a flight costs 15,000 euros? And apples on Germa.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3223	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3224	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 96(4). So you can only give the word to an authorised representative or president of a parliamentary group, not those present in the O.R., who have no adequate basis to get word at all, because this kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure can happen that every next party in the discussion at the next sessions is looking for a word and that precedent becomes quite normal. So I ask you no longer to allow such a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3225	My colleague Tomic, I believe that there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, because my colleague Balša Bozovic has been given the right to replicate as deputy president of the DS Group, and this is in short supply because you and I are seeing Mr Ćirić, otherwise, he is not in the system. I simply could not prevent Mr Bozovic or convince myself that Mr Ćirić was there, so I gave him my word, as deputy president of the DS Group and, behold, I do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3226	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. You're very parliamentary tonight. I wouldn't answer the insults and the untruths of the previous speaker, but I have to notice that he often wandered from the stands to the sides of different parties and was their member, the last time from the SRS to the SNS, so he wasn't invited to the DS stands because we really don't have room for this kind of thing. I think it is very important to mention once again that we care for the citizens of Smederev and especially those who work at the Smederjev Irons, and there is the greatest anxiety because the debt of 450 million is made by so-called "The Irons". saviour of the Smederjevska ‘Gleveras’. They were the ones who reportedly were able to re-create production and create what was once the "Ju-es Steel" in Serbia, Serbia's largest exporter. Instead, they made a debt, reselled resources and raw materials for their account, filled their pockets, and left the workers of "Smederevo Irons" in huge debt and dubiosis, from which they could hardly be removed. It's actually true. That is true, and that is what hurts the messengers of the people, and for that they insult, they say false things, many false things. I really don't have a problem with that. Fascination with our private lives by the ruling majority is indeed a concern for mental health, here and on my part. I want to tell you that workers who are in suspense today -- 450m euros in debt to Serbian citizens because you gave Karamash and Esmark covert contracts to "Zelezar Smederevo" and there was a minute of 450m euros. Dot. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3227	Mr Bozovic, I like to give MPs the right to reply, but I think this has already lost all meaning. I ask you, for the investors present in Serbia, not to scare them and not to call them thieves. So now it's October 2016. That discussion you had could have made sense last year, but not at this time. So I ask you to refrain and that, if you want to be politically accounted for, you do not involve the business partners of Serbian citizens, not the Government of Alexander Vukic or SNS. According to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Alexander Jerkov called.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3228	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I ask you to read Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure, which states that the chairman, if he wants to be involved in the discussion, will do so by descending into the benches, as a folk MP, as you did in a few moments, and not to flaunt with the MPs from the place where you are sitting now, because then they are unable to answer you. Here, Mr. Martinovic is right, very few of us are here, it's just amazing how you can't bear all the criticism, and not even those 18 minutes we have, but I think the reasons are that clearly what we're saying makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3229	I don't think there's any breach of article 100, I just turned my fellow MP's attention, not to do any harm to the Republic of Serbia, because of the desire to achieve some political goal. Also, I don't mind coming down among the MPs, which I have proven several times, and with arguments I have responded to various charges. My colleague Martinovic, on what grounds? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3230	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First, the 2012 debt was not a zero of 240m euros, that's what you keep trying to hide from citizens. The Smederevo Ironworks are working. We managed to save more than 5,000 jobs, and you from the DS take care of it, although I know that you can't do it, because you don't have that political power, but it's not good when you say to our Chinese friends that they're slave owners, that they have some kind of slaves in China, and that now they've found slaves in Serbia. That's an irresponsible statement. It is a statement that shows that even party interests, i.e. that state interests mean nothing to you. What you said doesn't serve the honor of even your stranger. To say for one of the most powerful countries in the world, for a country whose investments are being called by the Germans, the French, the Italians, the English, that the slave nation, and that we are their slaves, is a statement that is absolutely harmful when it comes to the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens. And as for Smederev, why don't you win that Smederov? Why don't you win anywhere in Serbia? You entered this assembly with a statistical error and are now trying to lecture us on how Serbia is recovering. We can recover Serbia, do it day by day, but we can't fix everything that's been done badly in Serbia in a year, and unfortunately a lot of bad things have been done since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3231	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3232	Miss Jerkov has already said that it is indeed a worrying lack of preparedness that three, perhaps five people from the opposition at this time present in the hall cannot hear. The DS Group has 18 minutes, 18 minutes you weren't ready to hear the arguments and I think it's worrying for you and it should be worrying. No one said or qualified any country, and at least China, that it was a slaver's relationship. I listened the way we had the debate and that you accused Goran Jesic of telling fellow MPs and colleagues that they were complete idiots. I have proved to you and proved to the stenogram that he did not say so, but merely quoted the prime minister as saying so. Take the stenogram, I've got it here, I'll show you and I'll prove it to you. The same goes for this part, but it is true that it should be pawned because Mr Bozovic spoke of Serbia's goal not being to use comparative advantages that are often spoken of, which is a cheap workforce and a low-skilled workforce, so we have cases that some workers and I won't mention these companies, but we have seen it safely in public and we probably have so much responsibility to respond, kneeling before our bosses. What do you want as a greater humiliation? It is only said that Serbia's goal should not be to open and exclusively cheap and low-skilled jobs, but to insist on high values, as it said about development and information systems and also other high-tech technologies thanks to universities that exist in both Nis and Belgrade, both in Kragujevac and many other cities, and not only in Belgrade that it is often declared as the only quality university.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3233	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3234	I'm ready, Mr. Kiric, now to give you a chance for a gentleman's bet. I will resign to the post of MP if you are right, if Mr Balsa Bozovic did not say that the Chinese have slaves and that they have now found new slaves in Serbia. So, if Mr Balsa Bozovic didn't say so, I will resign to the post of MP and will no longer be a national MP. Here, now, please, are you ready to resign as MP if Balsa Bozovic said the Chinese are holding slaves but they are too expensive for these slaves, so they found cheaper slaves here in Serbia? So, here, you have one fair offer, I'll resign if you're right. You resign if Balsa Bozovic told the Chinese to hold slaves and that they have now found cheaper slaves, we here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3235	Since this is no longer going anywhere, in accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a ten-minute break for my work rules. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Word has a National MP, Snezana Petrovic It's not after article 112, because he'd be pointless. [[Goran Ciric, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3237	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it is important for me to say that it is an honor for me to address here for the first time in the National Assembly tonight, but also to say as a graduate economist with years of work and experience in the real sector of economy I want to point out a few very important things here. Namely, the Serbian People's Party supports Serbia-China's strategic partnership. The result of this strategic partnership is that China supported all political decisions concerning Serbia's most important state and national interests. An example of this is the fact that China has not recognised the independence of the false state of Kosovo and is one of our most important allies in the UN Security Council. Also, Serbia and China's economic co-operation is high, as demonstrated by significant Chinese investments in Serbia such as the "Gelezzare" in Smederevo, which we are talking about tonight, the modernisation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, the construction of the Pupin Bridge, as well as favourable loans with a placement in the energy sector for the modernisation of the "Kostolac B Termo Power Plant". The entry of a strategic partner from China into "Zelezar Smederevo", who only wanted to buy, is an extraordinary news for the whole country and the economy. Iron employs over 5,000 workers, and it is known that at least three employees in the related works are going to each metal production worker. It means that at least 15,000 families in Serbia who can now be sure of their jobs are paid from "The Ironworks". Also, the announced growth in production volume to 2.1 million tonnes annually with investments of three hundred million dollars brings new jobs and an increase in exports by as much as a billion dollars, which will very well reflect Serbia's GDP level. The importance of China's investment in "Zelezar" and how much it will contribute to Serbia's export potential also speaks about the European Commission's attempt to review and challenge this investment, as explained by the alleged dumping prices of steel produced in our "Gelezars". In any case, we expect even more Chinese investment in the coming period and deepening the economic and political co-operation of the two friendly countries. Why am I saying this? All with one goal, by voting for authentic interpretation of the law, we send a good and clear message to all future investors in Serbia that they will have full legal certainty in Serbia for their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3238	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3239	Thank you, Your Honor. It's on the agenda tonight, today, the authentic interpretation of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of a company for the production and processing of steel ‘Smederevo d.o.o.’. The only correct interpretation is that the service of the mentioned member is established in favour of the owner of the water. We want to avoid creating an absurd situation and to deal with property-legal relations permanently. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, today and tonight's discussion of some colleagues, I remembered a sentence that our Prime Minister Alexander Vukic said here in parliament – it's a good thing some parties passed the censorship to let the people see who they voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3240	Thank you. The word has a People's MP... (Sonja Vlahovic, from the place: I am not finished. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3241	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected Serbian citizens, MPs in parliament for the first time discussed not only the authentic interpretation of members of the law, but also the discussion against the conclusion of the contract. They are not for sale "Smederevo Irons". They're for firing 5,000 workers. They want to destroy a city and keep 20,000 people hungry. But they forgot that citizens who have shown them trust can do the same and not give them again, because trust is said as glass, once it breaks, it no longer connects. I also heard a statement from a colleague today, when he said, quoting the same thing as Alexander Vukic, when he told the people, you are now in safe hands. Yes, of course they are in the safe hands of Serbian citizens, when they are in the hands of a government that has had the courage to complete the privatisation process over the past 15 years. The government was assigned the task in the previous term. This year, a sale contract was signed for Zelezare Smederevo with China's Hestil company for 46m euros. Hestil has an investment plan through modernisation, improvement, efficiency and expansion of the production programme, improvement of the ecological environment and enabling professional training and training, as well as further improvement in other countries. Of course, in the voting day, I will support this authentic interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3242	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3243	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a proposal for Article 6(1). Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of “Smederevo Irons”, i.e. authentic interpretation. For SNS, there is no dilemma that this authentic proposal will support precisely because the resolution of property-legal relations, i.e. the right of service on the lines, is very significant from the aspect of attracting foreign investment. Namely, "Zelezara Smederevo", the strategic partner of "Zelezare Smederevo" is China, which is one of the world's largest economies, and is its strategic partner who employs more than 120,000 workers in many countries of the world and who is of great interest not only to improve production but also to bring new investments. This authentic interpretation is very important with three aspects. The first aspect is legal certainty and that is the legal certainty of all participants in this agreement, which is also "Gelezzara" and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese company, as well as landholders. It is also very important from an economic point of view, because "Smederevo Iron" is very much contributing to the growth of GDP through its production of steel. It is also significant from a social point of view, because there are 5050 employees in the "Smederevo Irons" contract, and this number is mostly multiplied by three or four, so we can say that it certainly benefits 20,000 people from the investor who came to the "Smederevo Iron". I must point out that during the talks here, many false things have been pointed out. One of the truth is that the government of Aleksandra Vukic was the first government to take over, had the courage to take over reform programmes and take reform when it comes to the economic sector. The reform, including financial stabilisation and public debt cuts, is being recognised by citizens of Serbia, but not only by citizens of Serbia, as others give recognition to the government's impressive results. It seems that we recognize the progress and development of this country here in the National Assembly are not given by some MPs, who have barely crossed the censorship. Within 27 months of the government's work, 124 thousand jobs have been opened, 38 factories and plants have been opened. He often insists here with pensioners that thanks to the SNS and this government, pensioners are reduced. I have to say it's purely populist and one story. Of course, SNS owes great gratitude to pensioners because their pensions are reduced, but it is about 60% of pensioners, and 815 000 of them are out of 1,390,000 pensions for no single dinar. It has also been said that this government does not take care of workers who have lost their jobs. I must say that the budget of the Republic of Serbia paid 12.3 billion dinars for severance workers. About 20,000 workers received severances. Finally, I have to say that by 2012, 98% of industrial production was destroyed and millions of workers were out of work. Therefore, I will certainly give my vote to the authentic interpretation of Article 6 of the bill's first position, as it certainly means the path to further economic reform and the path to a better life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3244	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3245	Dear Mr. Arsic, dear colleagues, friends, colleagues and probably few viewers in front of small screens, I honestly did not expect such a tumultuous evening, with so many bitter and deeply emotional statements and words, and I believe that every one of us, whoever said something harsh, had already repented within himself. One thing should be considered, firstly, a group of Serbian industrialists who decided in 1913, in February, to build the first action mining artillery society, an industrial society, was a far-sighted group of people. They saw, at the time, what only we could look at today. It went on further after 45 years, started again to consider and there at the end of the '60s, in the early '70s Sartid was founded again and there was no mistake. Today, "Zelezara Smederevo" is a strategic factory and there should never be a dilemma here whether we are spending money today, money for the development and survival of the Irons". That must never be asked as a question. You say five and a half thousand people work there. Don't forget that in the Irons, I've certainly been many times, 70% of the people of KiM refugees, have been inhabited in time. That's the average of one family of six, seven people. People don't live there separately, parents, separate children, grandparents. That's at least 40 grand somewhere. Where's the huge number of cooperatives? Believe that more than 100,000 families today in Serbia depend exactly on the work of the Ironworks, even if it was just one chimney. What I'm trying to say is that I have experience and that we're one of the first ones, i.e. the first private company to sign a co-operation agreement with Sartida 78 years ago. So, they paved the way for small and medium-sized businesses in the great Yugoslavia, at the time they were co-operatives from all former SFRY republics. What brings us “Sartid ” today? First, strategically important, not for small Serbia, the Chinese state-owned company Hestil came to Serbia only because of small Serbia. On the contrary, it will cover the entire region wherever cars are produced and any meditative action necessary. In fact, there is a necessary opportunity for our modern - day Ironworks, i.e. Chinese partner. Third, I am delighted that this is an extremely serious company. It's a state Chinese company. We all know what China is today. I wish that once this Soviet Union, this Gorbachev when he was, was his first visit to China, where luck was that he learned something from them, from Deng Xiaoping, how to reorganize his country, and not to break it down and the collapse of the Soviet Union broke down Yugoslavia, we fell apart many countries, we had bloodshed today, always at our borders, there is some latent danger that something would happen. I want to sincerely point out the role of visionary, one brave man, Alexander Vukic, no matter what words this evening sounded like. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, but please don't forget to come in and within four years, to count on the time when he was Deputy Prime Minister and military minister, to take it, to go into battle with the windmills, to turn his sleeves and put his hands in a hornet's nest, in the hardest, such as "The Iron". The easiest thing would have been if we had accepted that time when very young people, as they say today, brought the revolution to their backs, won power in 2000 and, unfortunately, extremely inexperienced, without even the days of work in the economy, it applies to every minister then, took over the National Bank, the Bank, not to say that they entered with the AKs and God knows what kind of unauthorized methods, and in fact they came as so-called. democracy's power. I'm deeply affected by it. I wasn't there. I watched it on TV burn our congregation. I could only see it with my own eyes, with my own eyes in Russia, as the Russian Duma burned. There's something like us. We're ready to set fire to our own. The British Parliament has not burned once in four hundred years of its existence. So, I want to call for one tolerance, to understand, and I want the opposition parties, regardless of what a small number of people are here, to call for really one constructive discussion, constructive proposals to help the government, help President Alexander Vukic to put on his feet every factory that still has a chance of working today, to keep working, to modernise, to hire new people. What else does Sartid bring? You've seen probably their business plan, it's been published and it exists on the site. It is a new 280m-euro investment cycle for the production of white lime, for the production of lemons, for the production of cars, and only then will that contract that was made with the Italian company Fiat make sense to us. It's only then that we won't import their tin, we'll have our own tin, and most importantly, we'll sell it to all the car manufacturers in the region. Another thing, you shouldn't look so black at investors who come from abroad. Yes, the workers complained. I can tell you right now that I was at that factory in Leskovec. I'm interested in that. I just want to see how exactly what it is about private companies, and I as a pioneer with my brothers, a private enterprise in Southeast Europe, can't let my eyes, at least what I read in the press and watch on TV, that someone has to wear sweaters so they can do their eight hours. Believe me, it's high and it's not true. It's not proven. In the end, it turned out from the very people that it was a metaphor. I've been there, you can be there when you want, I want you to see, and toughness, toughness, so everyone's going to ask you to do it. And there's one more thing you should know, a Serb isn't such a mental circuit as to accept that someone's singing so much over his head, he's trampling on him and he can't go to the bathroom. It's off, forget it. I'm a private man, we're hiring 30,000 workers today, so I don't know who would let me raise my voice to him, not to let him take his break. But, well, that stays, and I take it as overplaying parties to each other, etc. Here's the goal of finally putting an end to one ride. You say 10,000 plots, yes, okay, so as soon as this government, there was a lot of power? Why wasn't that chance taken? A huge opportunity and an incredible chance, amazing energy has just taken advantage of the democratic opposition and has not solved the basic problems in Serbia. Who was defending that? You were the masters of life and death in Serbia. You could have done whatever you wanted. No one would raise one voice. We were being kidnapped by property in the name of some apparitions, displays, regulations, I kept my mouth shut like a little mouse, I realized I was powerless, do you understand? And today when I see it all, when I look at it, we don't want it today either, I don't want my brothers and many of our colleagues to abuse our presence in power, our participation in power. We're waiting for the courts to do their jobs. I think that what's going to be settled in Smeder's about land ownership is necessary and the Chinese are a wise and smart people and they wouldn't be what they are today if they didn't ask for it to be evaluated and reached by the Assembly's conclusion, because the next day we won't be in power, there'll be someone else. Let me give you another example. As far as China is concerned, I'd like to put an end to it. In Belarus, Aleksandar Gligorevich Lukashenko, President of Belarus, pointed out something like a regulation with us or more, a drug specialis, gave the Chinese 100,000 hectares of land, repeating 100,000 hectares of land at 99 years, symbolically for a dollar. That's where it's being made. It's already been building this tech park for six years. In 2020, the newest technology exports will start $50 billion a year in northeastern Europe. I invite all of you, I have been honored to have a member of the DS enlisted in a group of friendships between Serbia and Belarus, so I invite everyone and with great pleasure to take you and to see what a miracle it is at 100,000 hectares. God forbid the Chinese do that to you here. One more thing to say, when we had China President Si Jin Ping, he told Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nikolic - I don't need to tell you anything, take everything we do to the Belarusian president there, we'll transfer everything here to Serbia. One more thing I'd like to say, when you talk ugly about Prime Minister Vukic, please excuse us, who visited us for the last 10, 15 years? Who was it? They were the ones who bombed us and who, for me, were no longer officially war criminals for us, but for me, they were, because after 2000, they were freed and abolized by Bill Clinton, Madeline Albright, Wesley Clark, Solana. They were our guests, our red carpet, welcome, etc. And we have one completely different position, that at this time when this power is active and current power comes the president of China, comes the Prime Minister of China, comes 16 prime ministers of all countries from the region, where they are hosted by Mr. Alexander Vukic, along with the Prime Minister of China, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, several times. Let's say, why was there never a President of Kazakhstan, Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev, when Tadic went to him four or five years ago? Amazingly, someone from Europe, Brussels said -- he can't come, he's a dictator. Excuse me, he's here. I'm proud, Kazakhstan is a state of three million square miles and it has everything on Mendeli's plate. Kazakhstan is a vastly wealthy country with 18 million inhabitants and they need us. Not as slaves, on the contrary, as highly technologically circumcised personnel, Serbs can today and raise Kazakhstan. Look what's been built for the last 20 years. A new city has been built that's their capital. So when you say our personnel are leaving, they're leaving, I'm sorry, who wouldn't leave for a salary of $10,000? Believe me, our engineers work in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Turkmenistan, the salaries are about $10,000. Here you have a group of 20 engineers from Novi Sad who work at our company in Turkmenistan. They're gas specialists, etc. I want to say this optimisticly, we kind of got into this crying tonight, whining, what whoever did, how he did, I tell you, head up, perspective exists, it's only two years. What's two years? When someone told the government in 100 days to show what she was doing, I wrote to Mr. Mirovic, the other day there were 100 Vojvodina governments. I wrote, please, what's 100, it takes 10 years here, not to change power, to be this power. Normally with the correction of individual ministers, etc. and only then to show the results. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3246	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3247	I'll do it very briefly. I don't know if Mr. Ciric accepted my offer that he or I resign, but here's what Mr. Ciric said, because of you, because of my colleagues and the citizens of Serbia, Balsa Bozovic, and you assess who is playing with state and national interests and who is defending them. Says Mr. Balsha: “The second thing, 1500 employees, because an investor who has slaves came to China, is asking them now in Serbia to be cheaper than those in China. It's not an investment, it's an insolence and it's called ignorance." In second place, “As far as Meite is concerned, you are trying to build a slave force there to earn money from a Chinese investor. ” Now, Mr. Kiric, I don't know if the office is still working, if you've accepted my offer, resign. If not, it doesn't matter, I'm not angry, but just so you know, SNS MPs are very closely following what anyone is saying and, as I was right about what Balša Bozovic said, I was right about what Mr. Goran Jesic said, who today via Twitter calls me an idiot and a fool. I'm not angry, everyone has the right to think about me whatever they want, but what you DS are doing is questioning the fundamental state and national interests. It's lucky you don't have political strength, so no one's taking you seriously, especially our Chinese friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3248	The law on replicas first has the head of Parliament's Goran Ciric club.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3249	Since my chairman is a little ahead of schedule to respond to this request and your offer, I will first prove to you that you were wrong when we spoke. Here, and I have a stenogram here that I will first show you and read directly what you said, because you accused and offered a similar thing to tonight, when you spoke of Mr. Jesic, whom you said he called all of you in the parliamentary group complete idiots. I'm going to read it to you now and prove you were wrong, and then I'm going to answer this second. Here's what the stenographic notes say. Goran Jesic says – thank you, I have no real intention of explaining ourselves and we believe that it is not good to do this, that the wholeness of this law is that it should be withdrawn as soon as possible and come out with a new proposal, but obviously this is a proposal from the Prime Minister and things have to be fulfilled. Finally, the Prime Minister called Belgrade city officials some idiots there. So, he quoted the Prime Minister as saying that you, too, and we remember, called those who were destroying Savamala during the night to complete idiots, and then at a press conference, he said they had done it and that the high officials of the city of Belgrade were responsible. Furthermore, Goran Jesic says – I think it's my turn to withdraw this amendment, he knows better than I do that cities and municipalities don't need obvious funds, because he knows who runs local self-government, and this way I withdraw the amendment. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: So local self-government is run by idiots? ) So, you can read this yourself, he did not address anyone as idiots, but quoted the prime minister as saying that. (Alexander Martinovic:, from town: Slaves? So you were absolutely wrong about this. The slaves will be answered by Mr Balsa Bozovic, as the time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3250	Thank you. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3251	Thank you. It is completely false and I am sorry that Mr. Ciric did not accept the bet, because Martinovic would now be a former MP and would not have the mandate to tell the truth about what I called anyone but the owner of "Meite". What I wanted to underline and underline today, i.e. Tonight, once again, it is a call for workers and a condition for someone to be hired in "Meiti" to stand on their feet for 10 hours. What's it called? What is Serbia's vision where workers play slaves with a minimal? Those are slaves to me. The fact that for Mr. Martinovic they are workers, for me they are slaves, for a simple reason because they can't go to the bathroom for 10 hours. They buy diapers at their expense and stand on their feet for 10 hours. What's it called, Mr. Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3252	Since you're asking me, Mr. Bozovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3253	Is this how I insult any investor in Serbia, besides the said investor in Obrenovac, whose investment is worth 60m euros, and Serbia's state provides 40m euros? What's it called? How many thousands of euros per job each worker has just minimum wage and has to stand on his feet for 10 hours? (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Did you say this or didn't you say this? Yes, they're called slaves. You of Serbian workers are trying to make slaves, Mr. Martinovic. You are making slaves from workers in Serbia, Mr. Martinovic, and I see that you are very nervous about it, but that is true, these are facts. That's how you honor people. Here, the Obrenovians write on Facebook all night, on Twitter, and they say I'm right. If you dare, go to Obrenovac and tell them that they are not slaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3254	Mr Bozovicu, I let you go, you had the right to a replica and I can accept that your fellow MPs are not telling the truth, it is your right, I will not go into it, no matter what you think about it intimately, but please, and it is my obligation as chairman to protect employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because my colleague Martinovic read the stenogram that these ladies and ladies wrote. Therefore, I ask you to take care of what you say, so that all the other MPs can understand it in the right way. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3255	Here, sir, I don't even know who else to talk to, if you have a little common sense, the Užička Republic, that's Goran Jesic, says like this – what an idiot this Martinović is. Right, never mind, I'm not mad. I'm a big idiot, probably. Now, what's more important than how much idiot I am, page 62 of the stenogram, a stenogram led by these ladies sitting here, TDJ/SM, for 21 hours and 15 minutes to 21 hours and 25 minutes, says – the word has a folk MP Balša Bozovic, a replica. Balša Bozovic – I thank you, President of the Assembly. Then the second thing - 1500 employees because they came, please ladies and gentlemen of dear friends, came an investor who has slaves in China, so he wants them now in Serbia to be cheaper than those in China. What old Latina would say, smart enough. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3256	Mr. Bozovic, he was just quoting your discussion. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: absolutely nothing he reads as it says. Are you saying that colleague Martinovic is not telling the truth? You want me to read it? You have no right to a replica. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! What does this look like? Give me a replica, because I have a right to it, or give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This really doesn't make sense. ) If, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended by his or her name or function, or misreads his or her presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. There's been no interpretation of your exposure here, there's been a quote from your presentation. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: Only one sentence, the whole context is missed. I wanted to get back to you for that reason to explain in what context I said that. Let's see what context you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3257	So, I never mentioned that the Chinese are slaves, nor that investors from China are slaves. I told you about the owner of "Meite", one investor you brought to Obrenovac, for him I did, Mr. Martinovic. And I didn't say for you what many claim and you say for yourself, I'm building on it. I'm just saying, and I'm asking you, what are the names of the people who stand on the diaper bar for ten hours and don't have the right to go to the bathroom in Serbia? Are these workers who have their rights? Are they citizens or are they slaves? In that context, I spoke. Is it Serbia's vision that tomorrow we will create a society in which we will have citizens or create a society where young people with knowledge leave Serbia, and that only those who work on the minimal will remain and that we will be a slave society? That's what I was talking about, and your investments are going that way. For this reason alone, I said that one investor in Obrenovac, whose investment is 60 million, out of which Serbia has 40 obligations to invest, and zero percent of the ownership employs 1,500 people on a minimum that cannot be lived on, Mr Martinovic, in Serbia. It is obvious that these workers in Serbia are cheaper than they are in China. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3258	I don't want to read the stenogram, but, buddy, you're denying yourself. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The first has the right to speak, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at least we talked about the lines leading to the Ironworks. The most we talked about were visions. One of us has a vision, and one of us had a commission before. Now he sees slaves. We listened from their mouths about IT technologies, programs, etc. Who told them not to produce it? Here, the previous speaker reminds me of Billy Gates. The same, spit out Billy Gates, the one who had 95 percent of his wealth, which he had undoubtedly acquired, divided into the poor. Well, we had a reverse case here. These suspiciously came to their wealth by taking 100% of their wealth from the poor. They didn't fight poverty, they fought the poor. They didn't want to stop crime, they didn't want to put an end to crime, they put an end to the state. They didn't want to put an end to the robbery. They didn't want to work against themselves. I was lucky to grow up in a peasant family where no one was getting paid, so we met the market economy in a single-party system. As much as we've produced and earned our efforts, we've been able to share it, but we've had to take it to the market, to the market, to get the money, and then we've looked, of course, to separate for public needs, for tuition, to support grandparents, but also to invest and to try to increase that production, to have more to share between ourselves next year, and to make the public sector better. All businessmen go into business for profit, but, unconsciously, they help us too. They also help the public sector, even though it wasn't their original intention. In the race for profit, is that right, Mr. Karic, they pay taxes and contributions and thus can live the public sector. They fired 400,000 future slaves, if I express myself in the way this Billy Gates was expressed, what's-his-name, unfathomable, very talented for IT technology, he was a little short. Four hundred thousand less contributions, four hundred thousand disgraced people who when they come to their families can't pay them, four hundred thousand less people in transport, four hundred thousand contributions to health care and PIO insurance. How many pensions would it be if you hadn't cleaned 400,000 jobs in three, four years? People came from the revenue side to the spent side. You tried that 9% borrowing to make up, but instead of pushing money into production, you pushed it into consumption. People were buying foreign goods and so you only strengthened the chain of supermarkets and foreign trade chains around once industrial cities that became dead, mostly thanks to them, they replaced. Instead of having industrial sustainable cities, they put up trade chains instead of industry, and then we bought foreign goods for foreign money. Now we are told about production by those whose production has never been, but only consumption. They didn't want to live off the redistribution of the surplus, which I was talking about how lucky I was to have my farmer's father introduce me to the market economy. And that, when you grow up, son, be a man. Money that wasn't earned by physical labor and goods he called false money. Well, you've been living off a liar. You groomed the Emperor to the duvet, now give us a lecture. Billy Gates, if he wants to eat delicious bread, he has to sow wheat or at least let someone sow wheat. Billy Gates is in the announcement, I think now Bill Gates is shaking, if he wants to eat a sweet fruit, say, an apple at Jarram's market, he doesn't have to slap apples with that one, grab a client, or whatever it's called, talent. As far as he's concerned, NATO's pact has destroyed seven tanks in total, and the KLA six, and the party grabs 800. By NATO's pact, he was a force or was their infantry that ate the tanks. They're not used to planting or sowing, my dear citizens, you few who look at us now. They're only used to picking, harvesting, kidnapping, not being designed and created, but just dividing. In the end, this Bill Gates can be helped, but he has to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3260	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, bringing to an end this very interesting debate today, and I certainly thank you for the opportunity to speak beyond the very most basic topic that was at this point in the agenda, I would like to highlight another authentic interpretation that is from the corner of the policy of the Serbian Movement "Duveri", which is about this topic. I think that today we have reached an extremely important consensus in the Serbian Parliament that can be significant for our country's geopolitical future, which is that the West is definitely not the only foreign world anymore. After 16 years of Serbia's devastating path to the European Union, when it was believed that only in the West there was a purpose of life, our politicians finally discovered that there were other countries of the world and that the world was no longer uniform and that America was not the only world and that the European Union was not the most powerful in what kind of visions, but that there were some other countries of the world that became increasingly serious - both military and political and economic and in any other way. It is a major discovery of Serbian politics, which we have, of course, pointed back years. But it is good that Serbian politicians finally discover the existence and some other integrations except Europeans. So besides the Russian Federation, which can certainly be the best or at least strategic partner number one in both political and economic and military security sense for Serbia, there is, for example, the Customs Union around Russia, so there is a Euro-Atlantic Economic Union, so there are BRIKS countries, and there are mentioned China, which is finally welcome with its investments in Serbia. This tells us that a new multilateral world is being created before us in which the Serbian people and states will be able to find their own interests on the other side of the world. This devastating trip to the EU at all costs does not have to be our only time, and especially not as Eurofanatic and abnormal as it has looked in the last 16 years, where we have sacrificed every national, state and economic interest for the sake of this devastating road in the EU. So here are some ways that we might otherwise actually find our interests in the modern world. You have for a long time been invited by Russian President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin to start talking and agreeing with the Euro-Asian Economic Union and to make some new steps towards going out into the huge Euro-Asian integration market. Why aren't we doing anything about it? Is it because the EU is blackmailing us that if we want to join the EU, we cannot go further into Euro-Asian, economic or other integration? Are we going to get that kind of blackmail when it comes to Chinese investors? Well, here's how we won't be able to co-operate further with Chinese investors, because simply someone from the EU will put a ramp, as it puts the ramp on the South Stream. So you can't co-operate with Russia, even if it's in your economic or energy interest, because it's not in the interest of the EU, its own, and especially US multinational companies, which actually hold a monopoly on the European market. So this is an extremely important issue, and that is why the Devere parliamentary group is absolutely oriented towards supporting these geopolitical and economic alternatives. So, we're sick of this empty story of the EU having no alternative, we're sick of these famous pressures, blackmail and harassment from the West, we're sick of these conditions that we have to do this or that to keep going that way. Here, we simply don't want to, we return it to your ticket to the EU that you've never truly invited us to, but just use it for various types of blackmailing Serbia and destroying our national, state and economic interests. And to be here again in the spirit of this authentic interpretation, we from Dvora have nothing against co-operation with the EU. We just don't want to be members of the EU. We don't see any interest in Serbia in all this. If, in any other sense, co-operation with the EU has a mutual interest in both Serbia and the European Union, we have nothing against it. But if someone was blackmailing us for 16 years, and maybe 16 years, maybe 116 years as Turkey or I don't know who else, I don't see that making any sense, and that our time, our resources and our plans for the future should be spent on such devastating European integration. On the other hand, we are offered some alternatives that you recognize and how they can be useful to us. So, I think we can conclude from all of this one very simple thing, if we had invested so much energy and so much state resources in these alternative economic and strategic ideas in this 16 years' time, we would certainly have been better off than we are today. That we have a ministry of co-operation with China or Russia or the BRIKS countries, that we have an office for Euro-Asian integration, that we have so many state resources aimed at co-operation with these countries, that we have directed 16 years and thrown away for nothing in co-operation with the EU. We would certainly have more investors like this and more of these good projects and more of these common economic interests. If we had recognized earlier that, say, one Belarus or one China or Russia is much closer than some Western friends who bombed us, perhaps their investments would have come here earlier in Serbia. So that's something that I think is one of the most precious conclusions of our today's discussion, that we realized, therefore, that the sun does not rise to the West but to the East and that we have a much greater interest in any kind of co-operation from political, economic to military security, on the east side of the world than on the western side of the world. That's why this example of Jelizara Smederevo is so characteristic and significant, because it says that we don't always have to be obedient to the West, that we don't always have to work for the interests of the West, that it's not so much the Western world anymore, and that the West now determines everything that's going to happen in this world, but that there are other great world powers, which are friendly to us unlike Western countries, and that it would really be extremely stupid of our state leadership to ignore that fact. What I object to is our state leadership, it has not yet contributed to these geopolitical alternatives but continues to cultivate Eurofanatism and this is Serbia's fatal path to the EU and agrees with EU blackmail that we must not really develop much more our co-operation with Russia, with Belarus, with China, with the BRIKS countries, because someone will set out some new ramp on that disastrous path for Serbia to the EU. That is why it is a very important moment in all of Europe today when many European peoples are actually criticising Brussels, criticising this Brussels administration, criticising this pressure on national states, taking away sovereignty, imposing on me what orders from Brussels. That's not going to happen to almost any European people anymore. Look at the political scene in Europe, and you will see that policy options similar to the Dwarves and these are being strengthened today. Options that are Eurosceptic, which are against such Brussels, which are for the return of the national state, national sovereignty, national economy, national identity. It's your political trend in Europe today. You gentlemen are the Progressives today backward in the European political sense. You are still Eurofanatics, and in fact today European fashion is a new patriotism, a return to the national state, a criticism of Brussels. You have to follow European trends a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3262	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3263	Here, after a long time we'll go back to what's topic. And in this debate in an attempt to get some information because unfortunately from the board's representatives we heard some information, opening up dilemmas and questions. These questions may not have been possible somewhere in the right place, but they opened up what we were interested in, because in the end you said this was about ten thousand plots. That the government couldn't answer such questions. I think it's one of the essential sources of this misunderstanding that we didn't have a proposal from the government or a representative from the government, a minister who would answer all these questions and these dilemmas that the MPs had. What has been going through this debate on this important topic, because the subject of property and the way the right to use the property is transferred, "Gelezzare" Smederjevo's new owner, is exactly the dilemma that opened up, which is a fundamental problem, unexplained property relations in Serbia. Most of the time, you've accused, of course, as before, the previous government. There have been many previous authorities, and I want to call you first of all to understand that, and we have heard this from one experienced MP, that the state is not built for four years, that it is not built for ten years, but is built in continuity and responsibility in which you will take over both the good and the bad moves of previous authorities, the predecessor to whatever political option you are in. To function, all these five years, since 2012 on here, four and a half, in the way you are going to charge constantly some of the previous ones, is very harmful because it shows insufficient readiness to take responsibility for itself, to face your own mistakes and your own insufficient efficiency, and here you see just enough efficiency in the registration of property and implementation of the law that was passed in 2011, I said on 20 September, a comprehensive reform of property relations in Serbia with the adoption of the Public Property Act, with the adoption of the Law on Restitution and the adoption of the Law on concessions and private-public partnership. It was a step. I have not heard a single commendation for this set of laws that should have opened up opportunities to solve all these problems and more effectively register property – and local self-government, public enterprises and many state systems. Who's to blame now? It's the least important who's to blame. But the blame lies for those six months from 20 September 2011 until May, when elections were held, in 2012 and when you took almost absolute responsibility for state leadership, both at central and local levels, the greatest responsibility, of course, is yours. Tell yourself and admit that you weren't effective enough to enter that property, that this contract would be implemented in one effective way, so that, as a Parliament, we wouldn't come now, here, at 12.10 hours, to decide on one such decision, with all the dilemmas that we had as MPs. You blame us for the fact that three, four MPs of the opposition have enough readiness to sit in this room, opening up the question and trying to figure out what the point is. Because we have a simple doubt, which is why it is not resolved by a simple, contractual relationship, if we know what the property is, but now the Serbian Parliament needs to make a decision and cover the possible fear of someone who does not want to take responsibility and sign that contract. So that's the subject and that's the dilemma. I am sorry that there is no finance minister, since he was the minister of the economy when we discussed many other topics, and that is the issue of economic patriotism, when it comes to privatisation, then there was the current privatisation of Telecom, and I am now talking about the efficiency of foreign management that has been announced as a savior, which in six months, and many have talked about, solve all the problems in "Smederevo Irons". We saw what the announcement was – Kamaras and his related team, 35 managers, had extremely high salaries and our parliamentary group at one point, you remember that, probably, asked the question – did anyone from that management team pay a salary tax that was received by the leading "Zelezar Smederevo" in the period during which a record loss was made, an annual loss of 155m euros, 39% more than the previous year? We asked that question, and I think you should ask yourself that question, so you don't make any further mistakes – if by definition that foreigner and foreign manager were always more effective than the people who have enough knowledge and ability to run these systems here in Serbia. Why don't one of you run that system? Why not some professionals, who are already working, for decades or 20 years in "The Irons" or in some other systems, as was the fear that through the announcement of "Telecoma" privatisation, they will also seek a similar solution, and I think it is just as important that this kind of economic patriotism and trust that should be shown to our people and avoiding everything, looking for solutions and from that feeling that life is always better somewhere else and that some other managers are better and that some people who have actually proven their incompetence. And many colleagues have also proven possible dilemmas about the way and the purchases and what has caused great damage, and here, we have seen the result – 52 billion dinars of the loss of "Smredrevo Irons", 450m euros. No one denied it. So these are problems for all of us, for the state, for you and for us in the opposition. Don't just honor us that we don't want these people, 5,000 people, or "The Ironworks" or in any system in Serbia. We live in this country and of course we look forward to every success. But there will be no success if we believe only in other people's possibilities, unless we trust our own people and put our heads in the sand, not wanting to see this simple data. These were people who were blindly believed, who presented themselves as friends of the prime minister, who said in a direct transmission to the government -- in six months we're out of losses, and then we're getting exact data that shows exceptional failure. Let's learn something from it. It is a question that has been raised, both on the desire and on how we see Serbia's future development. We see in this very confidence that needs to be given, even if there are oppositions, even if there are people who think differently, who speak publicly and openly about these problems, because that's how you're going to engage the entire energy of society. With messages like this where, by definition, you're a domestic traitor and a foreign mercenary, because you're saying something you don't like right now, you're one significant part, so make it 5%, make it 10% of the people in Serbia, refuse and demotize. At this point, at any moment, it takes every energy atom of people in Serbia who can contribute to something. These messages just crown that energy and reject one part of the people they want, but they're simply forced to get away from that kind of dialogue and that kind of approach. So, the message of us from the Democratic Party was in the beginning, I said so both at the beginning and in the opening presentation – our goal was to open up and get answers to many questions. We are not against the privatisation of "Smederevo" and we are glad that a strategic partner has come and we are rooting for technological progress that will enable in the technological sense and invest what he has promised and make a new breakthrough to the market, but what we have heard from our MPs is essential – it is not necessary to build Serbia's perspective by opening up space, which was the biggest controversy, only for investments that will turn people in Serbia into a mere physical workforce that does not require engagement, does not require high-tech education. That's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3264	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3265	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members of the People's Parliament that this, conditionally speaking, closing word doesn't sound pretentious. It is obvious that no clear political message has yet been given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from this session, and that political message from this session is neither what the MPs who represent political orientation nor the Dvori group said nor what the DS lawmakers said. We were not obliged to give any answers because we had one clear goal. This objective implies that we give authentic interpretation of a law, and that of a provision of law. What does that mean, the respected citizens of Serbia? This means that we have confirmed that our laws, specifically the law that we have recently passed, provide legal certainty so far as "The Irons" of Serbia, from now on to the buyer of the goods of "The Irons" of Serbia, which, after the acquisition of the right of property on these goods, will, however, be objects, whether underground waters, or other good, have the right of service, or, more specifically, to use land that can come to those goods, that these goods can be maintained, that they can be repaired and rehabilitated, which means, in the legal sense, the word "real service", which is carried on. This means, again, that after the buyer "The Irons", and each of the next buyers will achieve that legal certainty through this law. And that was the goal. It wasn't about getting into bankruptcy. We're bankruptcy, thank God, escaped. It wasn't the goal of any bankruptcy reorganization, and we've avoided that for God's sake. The goal was to find a strategic partner, to unify everything that has not been done for decades now, which has been missed for decades, from introducing a land cadastre to regulating property-legal relations. And we achieved that goal by passing the law. We are now providing legal certainty to all those who, after achieving this goal, want as strategic partners of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia to be the owners of what is the subject of the sales contract, which is subject to the transfer of property rights and who are entering into the subject of land use so that the good can be maintained, exploited and of making income. That was the goal and it was very clearly contained in the law and everything that implies the provisions of the law we did not in any way harm. We have not violated the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property Law. We didn't violate the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, because we could do the same through the Institute of Land for the Regular Use of Objects. We found this solution to be more legally acceptable and thus provided this time to Hestille, after Hestille, give God for a long time to Hestille, someone else who will achieve this right and this legal security. Is this service going to be entered in the cadastre or not? It depends solely on the stickers, and it's an absolutely fake play that was created here not to be entered into the cadastre. That's not true. It will be entered in the cadastre, if the sticker so wishes, and logically it will have an interest in such a thing, because it is a public record, a transparency that many point to, this entire structure of Members of our Parliament, and in this way we finally came to what was meant 15, 20, maybe 30, 40 years ago. I thank you. Once again, it is a great pleasure that the parliamentary group of the SPS, which is participating in the government of the state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, brings such an authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3266	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3267	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I won't take up too much of your time. I simply want to thank, on behalf of the board and on my personal behalf, for the undivided support for the adoption of this authentic interpretation. I say to the undivided support, because tonight we haven't heard a single real, justifiable reason that would in any way lead to doubt that we need and justifiable adoption of this kind of authentic interpretation. If we rule out demagogy, politics, dealing with all that is not the subject of this authentic interpretation tonight, then what remains is that what was my personal position, as well as the position of most members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, is in a discussion yesterday, from five o'clock to these fine hours, received full support from all parliamentary groups in this House. Will that be reflected in the voting day in the same way? Probably not, because demagogy will probably do its part. I just want to underline the following, that there was very little legal debate, and there was little such debate on the committee itself. The questions that were asked tonight were not questions that were meant to remove the dilemma whether this authentic interpretation should be adopted and voted or not, but were issues that were supposed to open up space for what we had heard in the previous seven, eight hours. They have nothing to do with what the goal is, the reason and the need to bring such an authentic interpretation. It is true that the state is not being built in four years. It's true it's not built for ten. The state of Serbia has been built for many years, but some in a very short time, in 12 years, have managed to achieve what no one has achieved, which is to lead it to the very edge of being completely decomposed. It is my great pleasure to create the conditions for these to keep 5,000 workers in Smederev working, feeding their families, living from their work, and indeed for all of us who want to do good to Serbia, and for its citizens there should be no obstacle, and even to say that there was a small dilemma that we had to remove, and when it comes to the law and one position of a member whose authentic interpretation we round up in this debate. I thank you again for your patience and your energy. I hope that next time, first on the committee of colleagues, I will have more time and more attention, if there is something controversial that is only about the legal area there to clarify, without worrying too many citizens of Serbia and burdening this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3268	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3269	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members, let's finish this discussion. I would end up with a quote from the "Time" list of February 2, 2012 where when they describe steel policy, says Mr. Zarkovic, that the production of steel in Smederev was never really profitable, said it was constantly touched by the state and that the estimates of the grant investment ranged from three to four billion dollars and probably far greater. They also say that by selling SARTID to the US Stella company via the Trade Court in Belgrade for $23m in 2002, practically the US company failed to earn money in Smedereva, regardless of what they got for almost nothing, because they had to invest nearly 300m in it. He still says that the uncertain future is to find a strategic partner at all, because each loss goes a ton of $100. It also says that its survival would provide a minimum of ten billion dinars from the budget, that only salaries amount to five and a half billion dinars per year. In 2012, when the practical government in which Aleksandar Vukic was one of the main actors faced the problem, and because of this today when we have a stable strategic partner, the best in the production of steel in one China that has a billion and 300 million inhabitants, which has a market of the 500 most developed steel companies in the world, today we send a message to all investors that every partner in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is welcome and has a responsible and secure partner in Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The authentic interpretation is only one of the support in which we solve problems together that are accumulated when we talk about property-legal relations, especially when it comes to "Smederevo Iron". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-12-0.u3270	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for authentic interpretation. After we have carried out a principled search, the National Assembly will decide on an authentic interpretation proposal in the voting day. We're done with work. We'll continue at 10.00 in the morning. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that by applying the electronic system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
