ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. Please determine the quorum, to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 156 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Borisav Kovacevic and Professor Branko Djurovic. You have received a notice from the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia on the death of MP Milan Korac, as well as a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this notice, which found that the death of the MP was the case of Article 88, paragraph 8. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same Law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (8) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Milan Korac on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the meeting of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, which was convened at the request of 192 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been delivered to you the request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in this year, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on police; 2. Proposal for a Law on Public Order and Peace; 3. Proposal for a law on public gathering; 4. Proposal for a law on advertising; 5. Proposal for a Information Security Act; 6. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions and of Article 11(4), (5) and (6) Law on electronic media; 7. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). Law on copyright and related rights. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: a joint principled search on the draft law on police, a draft law on public order and peace and a proposal for a law on public gathering; a joint principled search on the draft law on advertising and a proposal for a law on information security and a joint principled search on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions and Articles 11(4), 5 and 6. Law on electronic media and Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). Law on copyright and related rights. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. It concludes the vote, and I declare: for – 153, v – nine abstentions – there are no votes, six MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovi, Interior Minister Jana Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Natasa Milidragovic, Independent Coordinator for Legal Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Milan Andric and Dejan Joksimovic, from the Police Directorate. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on police, the draft law on public gathering and the draft law on public order and peace. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46279	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, today's session discusses three laws in the work of the Ministry of the Interior. These are the Law on the Police, the Law on Public Order and Peace and the Proposal for a Law on Public Assembly. Faced with the need for reforming a very serious and complex system that is quite widespread, we have faced the need to through these three laws, and especially through the Police Act, make such a solution that will make it possible for the police to work more efficiently and better. As for the Ministry of the Interior, through this bill, through all three, but above all through the Law on Police, we had the need to meet to address the problems identified by citizens themselves, such as domestic violence, search for missing persons, react in situations of increased risk, as well as in cases where such requirements represent EU accession processes, it is a police-intelligence model that we seek to establish that police would be more effective, forensic registration, development of police in the local community, exchange of data in the fight against corruption and organised crime, etc. Significant work is also dedicated to creating a legal framework for the creation of a basis for police professionalisation, and above all, through the determination of strict conditions for entering into employment at the Ministry of the Interior, but not only for entering into a working relationship, but for you to meet these conditions as a member of the professional staff of the police and throughout the course of your employment at the Ministry of the Interior, or in the police. Of course, that's how we envisioned professional training, basic and other knowledge that is obtained through the Center for Fundamental Police Training for Police Officers who establish a working relationship with medium professional training and, of course, through training, through education at the Criminal Police Academy for Police Officers. In this way, it will be possible that only someone who has experience in the work of the Ministry or the security sector will become the manager who issues orders for the professional members of the ministry. This promotes a full-fledged profession, given that the professional performance of police tasks entails and a significant risk posed by police officers. Public officials are subject to different rules, which are of course in line with the Law on civil servants and tenants. As early as July and August of the previous year in the National Assembly, we adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Police which we created preconditions for the establishment of a special organisation unit for human resources. The organisation unit has started time-consuming preparations, which is the new Human Resources Sector, have begun to prepare time-consuming for the implementation of the career development system, on which it will be possible, by adopting this Law on Police to allow police officers to develop their knowledge and skills throughout their careers, but not only to develop them but to acquire these skills and knowledge as a prerequisite for their advancement. We promote the promotion through merits and through the acquisition of knowledge and will not be able to make progress through the very flow of time spent in a certain rank, status or the flow of time in the employment of the MUP where they will be evaluated and to see what a member of the police has done during the course of his work. Based on an assessment that he will receive and also on the school supplies he will be serving in the relevant institutions, he will be able to advance. Progress based on these modern programs will be made possible by course at the criminal police academy, but also at other universities that have such programs, above all, to say which are related to security and the ultimate result will certainly be where the most professional and capable people will be in their places. By promoting an internal competition, I think we achieve the best results that even within the MUP, the best people are promoted and advanced to certain leading places, and it is also possible for officials to keep in mind their ownaffinities in the competition to fight equally for the position and type of jobs they want to perform. The interior ministry is a large system, and there are many different specialities, so there is also a large range of jobs that people can do. The new organisation structure of the ministry, which was created under the reforms implemented, has put an end to the gap in the ministry's affairs in terms of division into police and internal affairs, but also as a need for rapid implementation and implementation of the new Police Act. The problems of police officers and operational organisation units are completely different from the problems facing other employees in the MUP. In this regard, after an intense social dialogue in the last two years, it was concluded that it was necessary to identify in the organisational structure a special organisational unit that would be particularly dedicated and nominally competent to maintain daily contacts with members of police unions, because we relied on their resources to some extent when looking for the best solutions. One special unit is formed, and we had this through changes and additions to the law and work on the new structure of the gendarme, the security unit of certain personalities and facilities and police brigades, helicopter units as special units of police, we are doing optimization of these compositions, improving their efficiency, efficiency and economics. This process has enabled us to significantly improve the implementation of specific tasks in the area of special, special police units, which will also reflect the state of full security of the Republic of Serbia, the fight against organised crime and corruption, as well as against all new forms of threat to the security of citizens and our country as a whole. In an effort to optimise the system with all capacities, we worked to isolate organizational continents that by their nature do not fall into police affairs. In this National Assembly, we have singled out anti-building protection as something that does not belong to the MUP, and that was one of the directions, and we are also considering the possibility that the Emergency Sector, which is still part of the MUP, will become a special organisational unit of government, which will in fact enable better coordination of work and professionalisation from local self-government to the level of the Republic, the management staff that needs to demonstrate certain capabilities in the management of local and national emergency situations. The staff capacities of the MUP were significant and it proved that the applicable Police Act had certain mechanisms in which the results of the work could be one of the relevant grounds for progress, but the lack of sublegal acts of other regulations and adequate application produced the need for them to be rewritten and not to leave much room for discretion of the executives. Through the strengthening of the Internal Control Sector, which is a very important item for us through this law, but let me also say as a specific strategy that we stick to, we want to show that the fight against corruption, as well as against police corruption, is one of the basic issues that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP are also seeking. As part of a broader context, this should lead to results in the detection of criminal offences related to corruption within the MUP and through the conduct of integrity tests for all employees, particularly managers who will work in places of high risk for corruption. So far, the Internal Affairs Sector has controlled only members of the Police Directorate, or the Police Department, and now the Internal Affairs Sector is controlling every MIP employee and is able to carry out certain measures and actions in co-operation with the D.A.'s Office, and, of course, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, which will allow us to implement all measures to ensure that corruption at the level of the MUP is absolutely minimal. The law is based on modern principles in line with current trends in the organisation and service of security in developed countries. These principles are highlighted in different parts of the law and lead to our police as well as other EU member states' police having standards in handling and co-operation with other security factors. From the different treatment of police officers in the application of powers to handling by order of a competent prosecutor or requests for co-operation by another security service. In any case, it is about standards which are primarily based in EU countries, and we have also based ourselves through our tweeting projects on a model applied by Swedish police, but of course also by some other countries at the world and European level. During a public debate, he paid particular attention to talks with the OSCE mission in Belgrade to finally define the relationship between the police law and the new Code of Criminal Procedure. Also carefully considered are the suggestions put forward by the European Commission on two occasions in its informal opinions, since the Law on the Police, each state brings it to itself, but of course there are guidelines to be respected, especially regarding the harmonisation of this law with the Criminal Procedure Act. The minister is responsible for his work, which means he is responsible for the work of all parts of the system both from the point of view of budget spending and from the point of view. In the event of the minister's responsibility for work, it is necessary to be informed about how funds are distributed within the ministry when police officers are working. In some countries where these jobs are carried out by several different state authorities, we can talk about some kind of absolute independence, which makes us impossible because you can't talk about a single MUP without control of money spending. Through different tweeting projects that the ministry is conducting in collaboration with foreign partners, we are looking for optimal solutions that are applicable in our legal system from the aspect of the sustainability of the state apparatus as a whole. We find a way to build all innovations in a legally possible way and therefore we are grateful for the cooperation, for all the support we have received from both the NGOs and professional associations, the National Assembly and all the others who have helped to achieve European standards in the drafting of these laws. Of course, we also pursue these standards when it comes to the type of powers and means of coercion, the type and quality of equipment available to police officers. I believe that, during and this year, we will find in our resources, in our own resources, enough money to improve the level of equipment and training for all police officers as well as modernising their needs primarily in protecting police officers in the pursuit of the most complex tasks. I also want to say that I thank the MPs for the Law on the Police, we have discussed this law almost all of 2015, we have had a series of public debates and the law for almost a year in public debates and a lot of the things we have talked about, a lot of the objections that have been made, have been incorporated into this proposal that is in front of you today and, therefore, I think it is a quality bill that will improve the work of the police in the years ahead. As for the draft law on public gathering, this law is, I must say, a little late, because the Constitutional Court's decision has been declared unconstitutional, given the member of the law that defines the gathering, reporting the gathering in a closed space, which is not constitutional. We ended the work designs and plans of the Law on Public Assembly, conducted a large debate, on which they participated from representatives of the non-governmental sector of independent regulatory bodies of international organisations of other state bodies, representatives of local self-government, the Venice Commission and after all the objections that arrived we discussed in detail this final text, formed it and forwarded it and I think that this law is very good, detailed and modernly defined public gathering. Meeting, meeting places, gathering organizer and the obligation to report in the open space in accordance with the Constitution, the content of the registration of the gathering, the duties of the organizers, the meeting leaders, the involvement of directors and participants in the gathering, the security measures, the prevention or suspension of the gathering of the measures in the event of interruption of the gathering as well as the criminal provisions has been defined. We have the first time a spontaneous gathering of citizens has been defined because a large number of citizens have suggested that sports events or manifestations of such nature occur that citizens express certain intentions for the gathering, after, or when they gather as consequences of events that happened even at some point, to say in the night, we have allowed the citizens to spontaneously gather without any application of the gathering and, of course, the only condition that there are no organisers of the gathering. Because if you have an organizer of gatherings you have an organization and then it's not a spontaneous set, it's a set to which the other provisions of this law apply. When there is spontaneity, when there is a reaction, for example, to our team's sports victory, let it be in three hours at night, citizens have the right to spontaneously gather themselves, to express their views about this event, it doesn't have to be just a sporting event of course, but we went in, to say in matter in such a way that we made it possible now to be absolutely legal. It is also possible to hold a public gathering of 0.6 to 23:00 hours, in terms of the application, and that is for now the most liberal, time station that existed in all public gathering laws. The only restriction concerns gathering in front of facilities that are important for national security, i.e. for the needs of a strategic state in terms of defence, which refers to schools, kindergartens, hospitals, places of production of electricity, water, military and police facilities. A gathering is possible in front of all other facilities. You can gather in front of the government, the Assembly, the local self-government, in front of every other facility in which the state government is being held, except, and I don't know why someone would be gathering and why someone would need to gather in front of a school, kindergarten, in front of a place where water or electricity is produced, or for example. It enters the military barracks, because I think it's impossible in any other country and affects the country's combat state's readiness to defend itself. It is very liberal, with minimal constraints, given the Constitution and that this is a regulation, which not only guarantees freedom of assembly, but also the organisation of public gatherings, the commercial type, I think we have done a good job and that citizens can be satisfied. We will talk through the debate today about all the members of this bill and what we wanted to achieve, but you will see that public gatherings and movement are possible, with the detention of each point, which citizens choose in the course of this gathering, only as always, since this is also a matter of balance and what is a matter of understanding, of jeopardizing the rights of one another, where citizens who are gathering must bear in mind that one right cannot be more powerful than the rights of another, and you cannot block the street for 20 days, if some people live on that street and want to move on that street. You cannot limit your right to others, and on the other hand, those people who gather must also have the understanding of those people who live in those streets, that for a few hours they have the right to come together and express their will and that's always a matter of understanding, the thing that people have to understand that the needs and rights of each other are such that they have to be tolerated. Of course, in that sense, we have also prescribed more serious obligations for all those organising the gatherings, because until now that burden was usually falling, even when there was no legal basis for the MUP and it was more about solving any problem related to public order and peace than about the obligations of the organisers. If there is a redistributive service, it must exist and it must do its legally prescribed job, and as far as all other criminal provisions are concerned, we have done nothing but comply with the law on violations and criminal law and we have provided for those measures in this law. Most of the measure remains in those basic laws. As for the draft law on public order and peace, this law was last passed in July 1992. Since then, provisions have not been amended, only one provision may have been deleted, mostly provisions from that period have remained, and since the entry into force until today, public police who have certain competences in performing public order and peace affairs have been established, a new law on private security has been introduced, through which the area of providing physical and technical security services, and through the new Law on Infringements, new institutes have been introduced in the area of criminal proceedings. Following these changes, the Ministry prepared the text of a law that is before you, which would effectively follow the requirements, time and needs of practice, created in some relations and in the normative arrangement of this area. Public order and peace violations are significant indicators of the state of security in one country and directly affect the feelings of citizens' personal security and after criminal acts, taking significant places in the area of security. Police are taking certain measures and actions to preserve the stability of public order and peace, acting precisely under this law. In addition to carrying out these measures and actions, police are most often co-operated with competent inspection services in the area of providing evidence for the purpose of successful proof and conduct of the infringement procedure. The new law prescribes traits of violations, i.e. sanctioning actions, whose conduct threatens or violates public order and peace, such as endangering the security of use of devices at a distance, which is a newspaper compared to some previous years, in relation to action or consequences, the existing violations are systematised, but some violations are deleted from the applicable law in accordance with the standards already in place. In order to protect the public order and peace of children and minors, special attention is paid to the violations of public order and peace that arise in the work of catering facilities, as well as to the offences of which children and minors can be used, by prescribing these violations of stricter sanctions. We expect that through a good debate today and through a large number of amendments submitted by the National Assembly, we will consider all amendments, to come to the text of three laws that, when adopted by the National Assembly, will significantly improve the security of the Republic of Serbia, but also make our security system more effective than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46280	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive explanation. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the list. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46281	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, firstly, on behalf of the SVM Group, I would like to commend the MUP, i.e. the fundamental work on the Bill on Police with respect to the opinion of all relevant actors, including the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and the professional public themselves. We think that in the first place it should be protection, security of citizens in the best possible way. The bill, as we have heard from the explanation of the respected minister, provides for a reorganisation within the MUP, by dividing affairs into internal police and introducing some new titles and acts of police officers, which is good. A significant difference in the powers of police officers and other civil servants has been made. The function of human resources management is highlighted, which establishes a career advancement system with the work done, which is extremely significant, precisely because progress will be based on the results of work, annual evaluations and appropriate training. As problems of domestic violence are fighting, it is noteworthy that there has been a change in a certain member who refers to police officers being obliged to take immediate steps and actions in co-operation with other competent authorities in accordance with the law, which would prevent further acts of violence, i.e. the danger to the victim himself. As we heard in the explanation of the Honorable Minister, on Thursday when we discussed this law, of course, that police officers cannot act without a court order and that in practice there would be an appropriate application of these amendments and this member, it is important that in the near future the Criminal Code is changed parallelly with this, or from the Ministry of Justice, we hear some indications that a roof law, or a special law on domestic violence, will actually regulate the conduct of more institutions involved in this problem. What is also significant is that, as is known, the police have done security tasks at the level of the local community so far, but now this concept, or value, is also gaining its place in the legal text, which is also significant. Allow me to base myself in the next few minutes on amendments submitted by the SVM parliamentary group on the draft law on police. The first amendment refers to specific conditions for filling the work in the MUP. Namely, the bill states, the jobs for which special conditions are foreseen are listed, and one of the special conditions for establishing a working relationship with the MUP is the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the other special conditions are that it has a place of residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for at least five years uninterrupted, before the date of application for a working relationship, that there is no dual citizenship for those jobs where only the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed, that there are no security interferences for the performance of jobs and other health criteria, psychological, physical capacity as well as competence criteria for the workplace for which they compete. I would like to point out that what we have achieved in 2011, in the course of the amendments and the addition of the Police Act, is extremely important to us. At that time, we were able to amend the law by amending it and achieve a ban on dual citizenship as an exception, not a rule of employment in the MUP. That's why we feel that from this bill of law, I'm sure in a few days' time the new police law is passed, this should stand clearly. Mr. Minister, I must point out that regardless of what was achieved in 2011, you yourself know that there have been some problems in the practice of applying this precisely because of the lack of certain rules, so I would like to appeal that, after the adoption of this new police law, the rules that regulate this issue have been passed as soon as possible. Therefore, only the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia as a special condition should be a rare exception, not a rule, as regulated by Article 110 of the current Law on Police, in which only citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is not prescribed as a special condition for the establishment of a working relationship in the Ministry, but it is stated that for certain jobs it can be prescribed that the person has only the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia Our next amendment, in fact it is the same amendment, but the second part of that amendment, refers to the precision of the provision, in particular Article 137. The bill, which reads: "In the course of establishing a working relationship, the Ministry takes care of the representation of national minorities. I'd like to commend the motionary on what this position stands for in this article. We'd like to specify it by the next provision. When establishing a working relationship, the Ministry shall take into account the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of the language and the letter which is officially used in the territory of the unit of local self-government, for which the organisation unit is educated, in which the person builds a working relationship in order to achieve full equality between members of the national minority and citizens belonging to the majority. I would remind all of us of the right guaranteed by Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Members of national minorities, namely, under the same conditions as other citizens, have the right to participate in the management of public affairs and to take public office in the employment of public authorities, public services, autonomous province bodies, local self-government units, shall be taken into account the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities. It is precisely the objective of respecting the principle of equal availability of jobs, one of the activities of the action plan to negotiate chapters 23 with the EU, specifically says that a special action plan for the implementation of the regulatory framework for the protection of national minorities, will pay particular attention to, among other things, the strengthening of efforts to guarantee the comprehensive application of the constitutional principle of proper representation in the wider public sector, the dissemination of preferential criteria for members of minority communities, as mentioned here, including the knowledge of the language of the national minority in employment and this special action plan should be adopted in the Government of the Republic of Serbia these days or these weeks. The second amendment, since these two arguments were related to one amendment, the second amendment was submitted to Article 9. The bill, according to which the Government prescribes principles for the interior organisation of the Ministry, as well as types of organisational units, seats and areas for which the organisational units are educated. The SVM parliamentary group's proposal is that this seems to be taking care of the areas of courts and public prosecutors. Namely, the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors has determined the seats and areas of the primary public prosecutors and Article 18. The bill stipulates that the police in the investigation and investigation procedure are acting on the order and requirements of the attorney general and the court, while a member of the 25th same bill has been established by the work of the district police administration. Simply, we believe that the reasons for efficiency and operationality require that, when determining the area of organisational units, the area and headquarters, or the network of courts and public prosecutors, be taken into account, in accordance with the provisions of the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. The SVM parliamentary group certainly supports making the police as operational and efficient as possible and that nothing can prevent security, security of citizens. Furthermore, we will support the proposal for a law on public gathering for several reasons, and certainly the reasons for overcoming the legal vacuum, the legal void, and after 24 years of adopting an act in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the new reality are most important. It is generally known that since 23 October of last 2015 there is no special law in the Republic of Serbia on public gathering, or law governing the implementation of the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of assembly. We believe that the law that will regulate this matter will be of great importance, especially given that I mentioned that the last law was passed back in 1992. In the past almost two and a half decades, the last 24 years, a lot has changed, and the reality has simply changed. There have been some technical achievements. For example, it is widely known and big news is that last April 2015, for example, in Spain, holograms also occurred in Madrid. So, we are now facing the fact that virtual copies are also protesting in a certain space, that is to say, the gathering of virtual creations of human beings, and the Republic of Serbia has for several months already not had a law that regulates this area, or there was a legal void. We welcome the fact that many of the recommendations made by the expert public have been accepted, brought to the public during the public debate on this draft law and have been translated into the proposal for a public gathering law, especially in the light of those objections which are in line with the activities planned and in the Action Plan for objecting to Chapter 23 of the EU. I also find it extremely important that the recommendations of the expert public concerning, for example, at the time of the gathering, which is in the bill between six and 24 hours, and the draft was between eight and 22 hours, as well as the deadline for the public gathering, which is now no later than five days before the public gathering, and the draft was eight. I would like to stress that international standards require that the application deadline should not be too long, but it does not determine what is actually considered too long. It is significant that the proposal for a law on public gathering is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the Department of Democratisation and Human Rights of the OSCE, as well as with relevant conventions, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the EU. The draft law on public gathering, as I mentioned, is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that a peaceful gathering of citizens is free, as well as that the gathering in a closed area is not subject to registration or approval, and the freedom of assembly can be limited by law if necessary. So, the Constitution prescribes protection of public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia. The bill stipulates that a gathering can be reported and conducted as the movement of participants in a particular area, so-called movement gathering, which can take place by moving and stopping movement, in certain places between the place of departure and the place of completion of the movement. More precisely, it is defined and spontaneously peaceful gathering, which is certainly good, without organizers. This spontaneous, peaceful gathering refers to gatherings that do not have an official organiser, which are actually a direct reaction to a particular event. After that event, which takes place in an open or closed space, it is suggested that such gatherings should not be reported. For SVM, it is an extremely significant content of Article 2. The bill, that a peaceful gathering is free and that everyone has the right to organise a gathering, which means confirmation of freedom of peaceful gathering, and this right for minority communities also has symbolic importance, as this means the possibility that minority communities can show respect for important events both from history, celebrations, memorials, etc. The right to freedom of public gathering is an important contribution to the preservation of minority identity. The freedom of public gathering, let us be realistic, unfortunately, has not yet developed tradition in the Republic of Serbia, unlike many other European countries, where this freedom is deeply rooted in democratic tradition. We believe it is important that there is awareness that the right to freedom of peaceful gathering is complementary with other rights, such as freedom of association, movement, opinions, etc. Realising that there is no ideal legal proposal that would transfer all complex living situations to legal provisions, but we believe it is important that the proposal for a law on public gathering lays the basis for a dialogue on this issue in the political community. The SVM parliamentary group will therefore support this proposal in the voting day. The third bill – the draft law on public order and peace has been in force since 31 July 1992, as we have heard. Since then, almost nothing has changed, except for some criminal and legal provisions following the entry into force of the Criminal Code, and multiple changes in criminal provisions, or the amount of fines, have been made. The Honorable Mr. Minister presented in his opening statement what the essence of the bill is. What is significant is the alignment with both the Law on Violations and the newspapers that took place in recent years, such as the municipal police, such as various inspection services, etc. In particular, I would stress that in order to protect public order and peace, children and minors, violations against public order are defined here that occur in the work of catering facilities by prescribing stricter sanctions, etc. I would like to highlight two more issues in the remaining time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. They're one of the so-called. It's petty theft. I would like to remind you that we have managed to reduce the definition of petty theft from 15,000 to 5,000 by amending the Criminal Code. However, the aim of the SVM is that perpetrators of theft are prosecuted by official duty in the context of a misdemeanour procedure and when the value of the stolen property does not exceed 5,000 dinars. For these acts, if carried out at the expense of private property, prosecution continues to take place on private charges, which is the problem. Realising that this can be resolved only by the simultaneous amendments to the Criminal Code and by the additions of the Law on Public Order and Peace, which is not the case now, we have now submitted no amendment to the proposal for a Law on Public Order and Peace. However, it is extremely important that we solve this problem in the near future. In particular, it is necessary to delete petty thefts from the Criminal Code and to prescribe them into the Law on Public Order and Peace, i.e. to introduce a new offence. I felt it was important that I emphasize this and resolve this with our joint efforts in the near future. For the very end, since the holidays have passed recently, we've all had the opportunity to see for ourselves the use of firecrackers by both minors and the elderly. I think that's an extremely current question now. Unlike the applicable law, the draft law on public order and peace explicitly does not mention firecrackers. However, I would quote Article 17(1). The draft law on public order and peace – which, by burning pyrotechnic articles, violates public order and peace or threatens the security of citizens, will be fined by between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars or by working in the public interest from 40 to 120 hours. We consider the penalties prescribed to be sufficient, adequate. But what's the problem in practice is their application, because the police are simply not responding without talking about using automatic weapons during both the game and certain celebrations. I think we should continue to insist on applying these penalties so that citizens don't have to suffer a negative reaction to this kind of celebration. Mr. Minister, associates, I hope that in the coming days you will take a closer look at our amendments, accept them also in the voting day, as I pointed out, we support the draft law on public order and peace and on public gatherings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46282	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46283	Thank you. I'll just try a few sentences to answer some of these things that you said. In fact, when we talk about domestic violence, that's the thing that needs to worry you all. We've had a lot of suggestions from different sides that basically protect women, because they're the most common victims of domestic violence and how to avoid being kicked out of that apartment by someone who owns a housing unit and so basically commits economic violence on top of them, and to be in accordance with the Constitution, because the constitution guarantees the invulnerability of the apartment and the police can't get someone into the apartment without a court order, which, let's say, would open up opportunities for a different kind of abuse, and then maybe it would just open Pandora's box. What we talked about with the Justice Department, I think the Justice Department is working on making a new law, is the possibility that in a brief procedure, in a brief procedure, the judge defines itself. there is a possibility that a bully will be removed from his apartment to the end of the proceedings or to some other extent prescribed by the court and that the woman will remain in that apartment and in such a way be physically protected from the bully but not be exposed to economic torture, in that sense. Of course, to prescribe in more detail how a bully, a potential bully, since he is not convicted at that time, can get his things, how can he have police surveillance to get into the apartment, taking personal stuff, means that this other person is not damaged either, but that he can't throw his wife out on the street and say that it is, in fact, some kind of retribution for reporting, etc. It's the only legal way, because without a judge's decision, we're going into an unconstitutional procedure. The court must make a decision, and we can all work together to, when the Justice Department proposes such a law, adopt a law that would in some way oblige the court to make such a decision within a short period of 24 hours, in order to protect the victim. As far as your amendment is concerned, we have also prescribed Article 137(3). The law, as regards admission to labour in the MUP, that employment is possible, except for those jobs where only citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed. What was the problem? The problem was essentially a sublegal act, which we have never, in recent x years, defined which jobs are needed exclusively for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the jobs where the security of the Republic of Serbia is, I say, the most endangered, or where employees in those jobs should not have a dilemma about whether they will protect the interest of one or another country whose citizens are. We'll make sure it's absolutely possible for all those administrative places, where there's no security element at the same time and, of course, the regulation of security checks, as a condition for employment. All persons who pass this system will likely be provided by state authorities that it does not pose any security threat to the Republic of Serbia, but in principle I agree with you and I think we can consider it. We'll see exactly how your amendment was formulated, so we'll see what we can do about it. Also, we are trying to promote multiethnic police in the Republic of Serbia. That's what we do in all the mixed communities. Of course, that depends on the candidates who report to the competition. It is not only good will, although we do sometimes positive discrimination and try to motivate these candidates to apply more and that they are more significant, but sometimes, simply, they do not meet the minimum criteria needed to establish working relationships. It happens in all environments, but it's a process that makes sense to me, and for reasons that so far people have not so much confidence in all this and not a lot of good students or good students have applied for police work. Now it's changing, and I think we're gonna be able to count on getting better candidates for different places in the police, and we're gonna achieve a better quality. What can I tell you when at the Police Criminal Academy, in the last year, the number of points first-ranked, compared to the previous year, has increased almost 10 points. So, we have better candidates who want to get into a working relationship at the MUP, and that way, by promoting all these values, we influence everyone else to apply for police work. As far as the firecrackers are concerned, I totally agree, even though we've had a better score this year than the previous ones, but that certainly remains a problem. Of course, besides all the appeals, there is a need to sharpen the laws. However, through the Explosive Matters Act, we have defined a little bit more about firecrackers, pyrotechnics, and everything else that harms citizens, and here we are based only on the fact that using these substances causes the violation of the Law of Public Order and Peace. That's why a smaller number of provisions touch this, but I'm joining the appeal, and I keep doing it, so that people refrain from using pyrotechnics, except for those who have a commercial right and according to the law to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46284	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46285	I thank you for your answers, Mr. Minister. In fact, we agree on many things, as we have heard from your answer. I would point out once again, it is a big point that the bill states that the national composition of the population is being taken care of, but we would like to specify this provision "adequate representation and knowledge of language", as stated in Article 2. - in action plan activities. It's a precision of this provision. As for defining specific employment conditions in the MUP, I agree. Actually, we're thinking the same thing. You're technically doing it now, so I don't waste time describing the amendment, you suggested. We also define it, because we would like it to be more precise, that dual citizenship, or if someone has another state's citizenship, is not an obstacle to the job of an ordinary police officer. If, under the current legal framework, in laws, the governor of the NBS, the president of the state, the MP, prime minister, a member of the government can be a double citizen, then the most ordinary police officer should not have problems, i.e. to choose between the citizenship of the two countries. I am sure that the aim of the SVM, as well as our common goal, is that, as you pointed out, the more members of the national minorities are working in the MUP. With this joint agreement, about these amendments of ours and the precision of the cited provisions, we would have just reached that goal. I am extremely pleased that you mentioned the adoption of a sublegal act, or regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46286	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46287	Thank you. Dear Presidents, People's MPs, People's MPs, Honorable Mr. Ministers, Honorable High Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, we Members of the SPO consider that we have very good legal solutions, a quality legal text that regulates the area of internal affairs and police work, as well as a gathering of citizens and public order and peace. In the SPO, we believe that the proposed Law on the Police is approaching us with the ideal of a democratically arranged society to protect and serve the police, that is to say to be in the service of citizens, protecting their lives, security, physical and material security. This law no doubt draws us closer to the highest European, democratic and legal standards in the field of police and home affairs, and I would like to point out that this regulation, which we are considering, is very clear, precise, consistent and that, from the form of the draft, it has been available to all interested people who have been able to deliver their opinions and many of these opinions have been incorporated and therefore I want to commend the MUP led by Minister Stefanovic, because the assembly debate, which has started today, preceded a long debate in the professional and wider public, which has been led for a whole year. The legal solutions also include the opinions of the European Commission which, I must point out, did not change the essence of what our competent experts and competent state authorities have proposed, above all, in the MUP. In fact, the European Commission's opinion only confirmed the correctness of the government's definition of Serbia and the MUP that essential reforms are well on track in these areas. The regulations we are discussing today are contributing to the creation of modern, efficient and competent police, close to citizens. This law establishes the responsibility of police to carry out their jobs with respect for basic rights and citizens' freedoms, facilitate career progress, create preconditions for increased and consequent control of corruption, as an important prerequisite for maintaining very transparent structures and preserving citizens' confidence in police. A basic law has been proposed to regulate police work, which brings a lot of newspapers in terms of organisational structure, as it provides for the existence of only one special unit. Cops are the most visible part of the structure of government. Their basic duties are those which are clearly highlighted by these legal solutions, to maintain public order and peace, to protect and respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, to prevent and fight crime and to provide assistance and serve citizens. That is why it defines much stricter, much more demanding conditions for establishing a working relationship in the MUP, and employees will have to meet these conditions all the time they are at work in the police department, and even after they stop working in the police, keep certain state secrets and learn about what happened during their work at the MUP. We are convinced that the adoption of the proposed regulations will make it even more convincing for the representatives of the MUP to confirm the legitimacy of the state, since they commit to show daily work to meet the needs and expectations of the public, to use the authority of the state exclusively in the interests of citizens. In fulfilling these tasks, this law has been regulated, highlighted, that police must act, in accordance with the laws we adopt in Parliament, as well as in accordance with international standards in the area of law enforcement adopted, primarily by EU Member States and the OSCE. Also, it is necessary to demonstrate in practice the commitment to the rule of law, which surely enables this law. It also brings more visible, more involved police work in the social community, and therefore especially encourages citizens in their immediate environment to receive law enforcement officers who know them, who are close to them, who give them confidence. So that's what I call them, the officers from the area who are going to work, have a duty to get to know the security challenges in that environment that they are responsible for and, of course, to focus on those persons who pose a threat and a threat to security, that is to say, to be the subject of the processing of these safely interesting faces. The law on police will strengthen the work of the internal control sector, will be subject to verification by all state officials of the MUP, with the aim of establishing in the appropriate legal procedure how, for example, it may, unfortunately, have been in the past, such cases that some officials with average income gain enormous property, and these checks will primarily refer to managers who are employed in high-risk corruption-related places. For the purpose of curbing such phenomena and introducing the depositing of property records of all officials and integrity tests as methods for determining and revealing potential corruption. The new law guarantees a system of career advancement, which we also commend, which is based on merits, according to which political officials will have to acquire certain knowledge, to pass permanent training, to perform a certain function in a certain period of quality, with objective evaluation and to continue to advance in the service, or to retain the service. We in the SPO, we believe that this law continues to build not a political, not a party police that will never again and must not be as it was in the '90s case. A year ago in the service of the preservation of one government. We, when it comes to the law on citizens' gathering, also support the solutions contained in it and point out that the most important provision of the law on gathering is that it defines that everyone has the right to organise a peaceful gathering and attend. We from the SPO, who organized the most protests, rallying, demonstrations during the '90s. For years, we have the most experience with this matter, we say that this law is extremely democratic, European and liberal, that we should be trusted by word, because the bill on citizens' gathering provides for one of the main newspapers that, apart from ensuring the right to free gathering, this right must not restrict the rights and freedoms of other citizens, which is perfectly fine. A member of the law is prescribed that under a public gathering, every peaceful gathering of more than 20 persons is considered to be held to express and achieve, promote both political, social, national beliefs and objectives. The legal text defines the deadlines that are longer than they have ever been, and the time of the meetings is the most liberal of all the solutions that have existed so far in our legislation. A gathering is allowed, which is also a democratic institution and fluid in front of all state bodies, in front of all state institutions, and the restrictions apply only to strategic facilities such as production facilities, water processing, such as military and police institutions, as the minister said. By holding the assembly together, which is logical, human and minority rights and freedoms of other citizens should not be violated, that is, to endanger morals. Nor is such a gathering allowed in places that are otherwise closed to the public, and all other places are fully allowed for these types of gatherings, considering, of course, that the rights of other citizens are respected again. And, when it comes to spontaneous gatherings, there is no obligation to report, but only important to meet these conditions of spontaneousity, the minister spoke of it, or that there is no public call for gathering, the organiser, because then the gathering is not spontaneous. The paper in the law is that no longer registers a meeting in a closed house, but that there is an obligation for the organisers to make sure that he organises a directorial service, to ensure the safety of all citizens' participants. A few sentences and a draft law on public order and peace. The law also makes very good solutions, as more serious, more comprehensively determining all relevant concepts and violations of public order and peace. We believe that these acts of public order and peace violations are very important for the sense of personal security of every citizen and that, after the crimes in that hierarchy, they are practically immediately ranked in the area of security. Some violations have been erased from this legal solution, such as vagrantism, but some have been given more attention, such as violations involving the exploitation of children and minors. This means that this law goes into step with time and what is happening in our country, but also the environment and for these parts, which is quite appropriate, are stricter sanctions that we will support. To say that the SPO Parliamentary Group supports the adoption of proposed laws on police, public order and peace, public gathering. Once again, we commend the work of the Minister and all his associates on the drafting of these legal texts and that a broad democratic debate on them is possible, which is respected by many opinions which are included in the legislative proposals, and above all we support these solutions because they allow for further reforms in the security, public order and police areas, and this is one of the most important segments of the entire society. These laws will also contribute to further democratisation of our society and transparency in the work of the state authorities, further building of the rule of law, continuing the fight against crime and corruption, harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules, and will also mean the necessary rationalisation in the state administration and will also bring significant savings in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and all the numbered reasons. In Voting Day, the SPO MPs will vote for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46288	Thank you, Mr. Chotric. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46289	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this is the first session in 2016, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the chairman, respected ministers with associates, all of you on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs, I want to wish for a lot of health, happiness and success in this 2016. All three proposed laws that we are talking about today certainly deserve special attention to be spoken of, because they regulate the most sensitive area, they regulate the most sensitive protection of human rights, such as the security and security of people, order and peace, but also the right to gather for the sake of organised or spontaneous expression of opinions and attitudes. A significant part of the new Law on Police, which is systemically, is being organised by a new organisation, we also heard this in the opening statement from the respected Minister of Neboja Stefanovic, affairs at the Ministry of Interior and division in internal and police affairs. We in the SDPS think that this kind of division of business in the organisational sense can be very good, because doing police work is really in many ways specific. I guess that doesn't have to be explained to anyone in particular. While all other supporting jobs, although in the work of the same police, can be observed, arranged at the level of civil servants in the manner that all other jobs are arranged in other ministries in the entire state administration system. From the point of view of the reform of the state administration that is under way and implementing the necessary rationalisation that is also under way and the savings that are inevitable, such a solution is better than the existing organisation. An example of this is that, just one case, that the insurance internship with an increased duration will only be recognised in those jobs that, due to their weight and nature, justify the application of this right. The paper in this law, and I must do so with special gratitude both to the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that provisions have been introduced in the law that in the case of reported domestic violence, police officers are obliged to immediately take the necessary measures to prevent further violence. Why am I saying this? The Istanbul Convention, the famous Council of Europe convention on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, which Serbia has ratified as the eighth country in Europe, explicitly requires countries, members and signatories to regulate their laws as much as possible. Even when we visited the recent one we could see through electronic media by the prime minister and minister in the government, it was suggested that there would be changes and the Criminal Code and these changes that we are now talking about here through the prism of the Police Act. In fact, this provision is also a legal basis for the police to act, which in line with the amendments to the Criminal Code and some other laws, should stand in the way of this widespread phenomenon in our society, in the way that all other regulated countries are counting against the bullyes, which is the immediate distance of the bully from the victim, from the restraining order and the strict penalty. Unfortunately, we are also witnesses in this year, and in 2015 we had 34 women who were victims of violence, daily through written media we face domestic violence and we think it is indeed one of the more acute problems that we have as a society, and that is why it is good that even in this system law we are dealing with this big, big problem. In such cases, it is the only way to act, because unfortunately they are long paths, and you will agree with the practice and experience we have in the past period for socialization and treatment of so-called. A psychopathological condition in a bully, and I'm not saying it doesn't matter. So this will sort of shorten that path, and a number of other solutions, good ones, bring new law on police, and from the point of view of legal certainty, it is particularly important that police powers are very precise and are determined exclusively by this Police Act alone. The other two proposed laws are passed, I would say, in the interest and for the benefit of all our citizens. It is very important, I would say, and it is necessary to establish public order and peace because chaos can only produce new chaos, while peace and prosperity exist in the orderly states, especially since the applicable laws in this area, one of which has even ceased to apply, have become obsolete. They're both from, I'll remind you, back in 1992, and in the meantime, other laws were passed that require further harmonisation. In the proposal for a new law on public order and peace in the regulation of violations against public order and peace, special weights are those committed in the group or used by children and minors, who abused minors and children. When it comes to the proposal for a law on public gathering, the basic essence of the bill cannot be bypassed, which is to regulate constitutional rights to freedom of opinion and to express freedom of assembly. In fact, the right to freedom of assembly is inextricably linked to the right to freedom of expression, and yet freedom of expression includes both freedom of speech and freedom of public appearance. The essence of democracy, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is to solve the problem through dialogue, through democratic debate. This is important for all democratic societies based on the rule of law. In order to interfere with these rights, I think that the European Court of Human Rights' view must also be convincing and strong reasons because this same court, the European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg, in the procedures it is always, I remind you, examines whether, in the application of the law restricting the right to public gathering, the state has acted wisely, carefully and in good faith. Therefore, a peaceful gathering is free, and any ban on that gathering must be based on an individual legal act, a solution against which appeal and judicial protection are allowed. The freedom of public gathering involves various forms of peaceful public gathering. On the other hand, restrictions on the maintenance or termination of a public gathering that prescribes this law, such as violence and the danger of violence, require good thinking and the application of this law will not always be easy. In one of the European Court of Human Rights' views, I quote, "the range of behaviours considered to be violence must be interpreted closely, but it can extremely be extended beyond purely physical violence, so as to include both inhumane and humiliating treatment or deliberate intimidation or harassment of a group of people gathered together," the quote concluded. The Venice Commission has drawn up a list of fundamental European international standards on the right to freedom of public gathering, the Venice Commission opposes the ban on gathering in places near the buildings of the highest state authorities because it considers that these are places suitable for public speaking, so that instead of blanco bans in the laws of restrictions by the state could only be imposed from case to case, depending on the characteristics of a reported gathering. In a proposal for our law on public gatherings to be adopted, the government deleted a provision that existed in an old law under which a public gathering is not allowed in front of the parliament building while the meetings continue, but some other states continue to have in their laws a provision banning public gathering near state institutions. It is Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. I remind you that all members of the EU are. National MPs of the SDPS Group have carefully considered the provisions of all three laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we are satisfied with the way the laws are presented because they respect the principles of the rule of law and human rights and freedom. Well-written laws always facilitate their application, so in the adoption of these laws, we in the SDPS provide full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46290	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Mr. Dejan Chapo. Here you go, Mr. Chapo. Excuse me, Mr. Sutanovac, in the meantime, Mr. Chapo has come forward and he has the advantage of being a smaller parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46291	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and co-workers of the ministry, the LSV parliamentary group has submitted amendments to the laws we are talking about today and depending on whether our suggestions, which we have given through our amendments, are respected, we will decide whether we will support the proposed laws or not. I would like first of all to welcome the preparedness of the team who wrote these laws, first of all to accept the suggestions of the NGO sector and independent institutions, and above all when it comes to the Law on Public Assemblys. For us from the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina is certainly the most significant law on police. Unfortunately, even in this bill, the formation of a duchy police force is not envisaged. We have insisted on this for years, and as long as our ideas are not accepted, we will not give up, as we are not giving up the initiative to break up the energy agreement to sell agricultural land to foreigners and tycoons and lustrations. All of these are our initiatives that will eventually be accepted when it is acknowledged how badly some of the decisions made in the past have been made. One example is that even at the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, we from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina said that it is unsustainable and bad, and today there are increasingly calls for a change in Serbia's highest legal act and those who were the greatest advocates of its adoption. I'd like to go back to the proposed Police Act. Since the January 2003 legislative proposal, which envisioned the Vojvodina police, so far, the issue has continued to be avoided. Under the 2003 law, which entered the procedure, it was never voted, and this law did not come to the agenda, unfortunately because of the tragic events of March 2003. No later solution took into account the need to form a special organisational structure of police on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I think I should explain right now and be very clear, we in Vojvodina do not want parallel police forces, but only the special organisational structure of the Serbian Ministry of Interior on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In addition to organisational reasons and reasons related to the specificities of Vojvodina, which will also be discussed later, I am particularly referring to the multinational structure of the population and multilingualism, which is certainly very much represented in Vojvodina. In the first place, it is very important to admit that there are several political reasons, since this is certainly a political issue, and that is why we are discussing it today in the House of the National Assembly. Namely, the District Secretariat of Interior AP Vojvodina was abolished after Milosevic's organised coup regime in Vojvodina in 1988. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will one day, I'm sure, have to make it clear about these events. Is that supposed to be fenced up and discounted or not? Is that going to happen in this conference? I honestly doubt it, but all I know is that we will have to, and then we will be clear about condemning those events. You can't, and you can't run politics by keeping quiet about these events. Why did I mention this? Well, if abolishing the Duke's police is the result of the coup, then that and the police must return. A few sentences about the period when there was a duchy police force and what it meant for the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. The 1974 Vojvodina Constitution, in addition to economics, enabled the Duchy and the Duchy of Duchy for decades and for personal security, since there was then also the duchy police who were one of the most effective in the then Federation. While Vojvodina had its own police force, public security was high. There were about 22,000 crimes in the province annually, each of which was clarified and processed. Over 90% of the muggings and robbery thefts were clarified and processed. The officer was visible and available to citizens in every local community. The Duke police had then the most modern and modern technique and equipment, even their helicopters. Police officers were paid between 50% and 70% more than in other parts of the state. In the decentralisationd system of public security at the time, there were Povinski SUP, who was responsible for the security situation throughout the province, 13 inter-municipal SUPs and the City Secretariat in Novi Sad. In each municipality there was a department of internal affairs within which the police station was located and in every major or smaller local community there was a police sector. Our proposal, a proposal from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina today, is to form a police secretariat for Vojvodina as a new organisational unit within the police department, which will be educated to coordinate the work of police administrations and police stations in the area of the AP Vojvodina. We propose that the head office of the Vojvodina Police Secretariat be in Novi Sad and that the work of the Police Secretariat for Vojvodina be conducted by the secretary, appointed by the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Provincial Government. The education of the Vojvodina Police Secretariat does not violate the basic concept of the bill, as such a secretariat would be part of a single police department. The Duke must have his own police force and to know who is responsible for the violence that is happening. Crime can be reduced, of course there is a way. The police aren't the only ones who can influence that, but it's certainly the key. Compared to other parts of Serbia, Vojvodina is specific because of national charms, but also because of multilingualism. The specificity is also the need for police officers in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to know the language of the social environment in order to communicate with citizens in a smooth manner. No sufficient attention has been paid to this in the previous period. The Vojvodina is a multi-national, multi-lingual and multi-confessional environment and we Vojvodina understand relations better and we better recognize problems with us than anyone would do from Belgrade or central Serbia. I'm sure the good people in Belgrade and central Serbia want a good Vojvodina, but they don't understand the problem because they don't live it, and they just don't see what's going on in one special environment like Vojvodina. There is even a special manual of the OSCE for police work in multiethnic societies, which is proof that there is a specificity and need of the AP Vojvodina for a special police secretariat. When it comes to the Law on Public Gathering, we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina support the idea that every gathering that does not endanger the right of other citizens is allowed. It is a good starting point and is based on the experiences of many of the laws of European countries relating to this topic, but this endangerment of the rights of others can be interpreted in several ways. For example, in Novi Sad, gatherings of neo-Nazis and clerofashists were organized on several occasions. I'm not going to name their organizations on purpose, because they don't deserve any attention or advertising. I'll remind you of just a few of the most picturesque examples. First, when they announced their gathering in Novi Sad in October 2007, which we responded to by organising an anti-fascist rally, the participants of the anti-fascist assembly attacked those extremist organisations and were prosecuted for it. Unfortunately, I must point out, just before the end of last year, they were also cleared of the charges. Somehow, at the same time that they were cleared of charges, members of these organizations announced a gathering outside the Social Democrats League's office in Novi Sad, which the original police banned, but they held a later rally at a second location and in that place set the Social Democrats League flag on fire. They clearly sent a message of hatred and impatience. If this was not a sufficient indication of the danger, I don't know what they should do to ensure that the competent institutions respond adequately and in time. Some of these organizations are also banned by the Constitutional Court, which I must underline, and yet they gather uninterruptedly. So the point is that it's not only important whether someone is protesting peacefully or not, it's important what kind of messages someone is sending, what symbols they're wearing, and whether the organization in question is extremist and forbidden or not. In 2005, I was an MP at the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and I remember when the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina requested and discussed the report by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia on the existence of neo-Nazi and clerofastic organisations in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Even then, in 2005, it proved that the MUP had clear knowledge of its anti-constitutional and anti-cancer activity, and was later confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Here, today we are not witnessing a clear and unequivocal opposition of the state to these and these groups and organizations. It is clear to me and to us in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina that this depends not only on the police and this law, but it is still important to say it here and here when it comes to the Law of Public Assembly. Once again, we want to send a clear message that Serbia must deal more effectively with these phenomena. The account with neo-Nazis and clerofashists isn't just the job of the police, the prosecution and the courts, but the whole of our society. That's why I mentioned it. We of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will never give up on this fight, deeply believing that it should and must change the organisation structure of the Ministry of Interior in the near future and form a police secretariat for Vojvodina. Once again, I would like to stress that the vote of the Social Democrats League parliamentary group of Vojvodina will depend on the adoption of the amendment, above all on the Duke's police. We, I'm convinced, are going to fight for the Duke's police at some point, even though it's not by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46292	Thank you, Mr. Chapo. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46293	I hope that no Vojvodina police will ever be as long as there is a Republic of Serbia that will be Serbian police and Serbian police will be in Vojvodina both in central Serbia and Belgrade and in every municipality in Serbia will be Serbian police, one of the country's police. As far as police are concerned, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it has been deployed to seven police administrations that account for security in the territory of all police administrations. I think some of the things you suggest are bad because the whole essence of this law is the concept of career advancement. There's no career progress if a political body proposes to a management chief, then there's no career anymore, then it's a political setup, there's no competition at the moment, there's nothing. The minister accepts the AP Vojvodina's proposal on the candidate, whoever it is. So that's where the career advancement system is completely interrupted. The whole system of this law and the meaning of what we bring to be gone. So, you're making progress with your career and you can't choose someone who's nice to you as a young lieutenant to put him in charge of some administration, that's more impossible. He has to earn it by working, pawning, schooling, and the flow of time. It's impossible, so it's absolutely impossible. Of course, why the principle of an elder's office and the management of the Police Directorate by the police director when he essentially loses leverage over that part of the system, and that is the essence of the career progress of falling into the water. The principle of an elder who is very important to the police falls. The police department was founded to manage the police and is the essence of the police director. The Director of Police is in charge of the police. The law provides sufficient opportunities for different bodies to organise a structure within the ministry, i.e. the Police Directorate in the way that it best fits the objective of security for all citizens and there is a thing that police can organise however they want. But that proposal you made was bad for the police, bad for the safety of the citizens. It may fit some specific political aspects or goals, but it must never be a police matter again. It can fight through different bodies that are the bodies of the Security Council's surveillance and all that exists. After all, as interior minister, I went several times, in the last year and a half before the MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly, MPs of the Security Committee and held a report on the security situation in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I spoke of it. I've been followed by the highest representatives of the M.O.P. So we are not running away from showing responsibility, to show both what citizens and MPs are asking us to do, but the police system must be unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and it must be a career system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46294	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. Mr. Chapoo, you have no right to a replica at this time. The word has been authorised by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the MUP, you won't mind if I make one complaint at the very beginning, Mr. Minister, at your expense. Last week you scheduled a meeting in Serbia's parliament, a meeting with opposition representatives. We showed up at 11:00 as scheduled, you didn't come, neither did you, nor did your associates. If we're talking about the Police Act, if we're talking about depolitisation, there's a question that you're entitled to take the entire top of the MUP to a coalition meeting, obviously a coalition that makes up most of this parliament, and you haven't respected a meeting with the same associates that you've scheduled for Mr. Minister, which we've been waiting for half an hour. As you know, I even entered an O.R. where they were representatives of the majority, and then Zoran Zivkovic came in and we were headed out of that room. We were told that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46296	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, you must return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46297	This is a very subject, because there's been a discussion about the Police Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46298	You need to talk about the police law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46299	Of course. So, if we're talking about the depoliticisation of the police, I have to say that you have otherwise politicized all the members of the MUP who were with you at that meeting which was only obviously organized for the representatives of the authorities. Since, practically since 2000, only Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, someone who has launched reforms in the MUP, I recall, has been singled out from the Ministry of State Security and formed by the BIA, also formed a gendarme and are practically the last reform steps made in the ministry. So, for a decade and a half from October 5th, no one else has implemented reforms so far in a way that would be directed to serve and protect adequately Serbian citizens. It's very good that we finally have a proposal for a new law on police, but the same proposal for us is nothing more than a missed chance of taking advantage of the chance to reform the police in a generally accepted way, a modern, modern way that exists in modern, modern countries of the world. Unfortunately, I know there have been several drafts of this law in public debate. I know he's been through triage and some international instances, but I'm saying unfortunately because even counsellors who have been from abroad who have not tried, wanted, or knew that they've been implementing experiences from their countries that have been functioning for decades and that have given adequate and good results. First of all, I don't think you've taken advantage of the opportunity to disburse a part of the work that the MUP is doing today, which is the issue of a number of documents that make citizens go to the police, which is why we find it completely inappropriate and unnecessary. The issue of a document such as a driver's license, a traffic permit, has no need to be carried out in the MUP already can be brought down to the level of local self-government where people who betray and people who take driver's licenses will feel more comfortable because there's no need to go to the police for such a banal thing. I think it's an experience that your advisor has just been used in the country where he comes from. On the other hand, you tried to create a new model of police in the local community, and that's something that's generally accepted in the world, and that's something that exists, and it's defined almost in all Western European police, but not the way you've done that's purely declarative and that's basically still not connected to local self-government. The head of local police, whether it's a police station or a police department, under this bill, has no responsibility in relation to local self-government and has no obligation to submit a report or information on the state of security in the municipality's territory, or the city. We find that very bad. We believe that local police must have the strongest possible connection with the representatives of citizens in local government and that representatives of citizens through the municipal assembly, or the city's assembly, should define a security policy in the territory they live in because they know much better what is good for them and what is problematic for them. I certainly don't think so, and I agree with you that local self-government should participate in the creation of police, I don't think local police should participate in the selection of local police chiefs, whether police stations, whether police administrations, but also think local self-government should, and may have the opportunity to listen to the local police chief and issue him certain orders in the assembly, or to issue him a negative assessment if the state of security on the territory of that municipality is bad. It's unfortunately not done, it's not in any way disuniting the police, on the contrary, it's exactly what you tried to do in this law, but I'm saying it wasn't done. I'm sorry, I'm saying, that your advisors coming from the UK didn't implement a way of functioning that exists in the UK or, say, in London, Hemshire, where I had the chance to see it myself. We support the full creation of career advancement. We find it necessary to create an adequate career pyramid. As part of that, I think it's necessary to reform police school as well. I'm going to remind you of this kind of job from the human resources sector there's been some time at the Ministry of Defense, so in the military, I hope that now and in the police, you can't move forward just on the basis of your service training. It's something that's unacceptable. Earlier, there was a principle when someone employed in the wax almost guaranteed that he would retire as a colonel. This time, I hope that the police will also create an adequate map of personnel based on which those who have met certain conditions that can be professional, professional, educational, and so on will apply to the vacant place. What's bad is that it doesn't define clearly what the role of the human resources sector is. As you know, I told you about it at a meeting, I mean last year, when you said that the organization administration would be part of human resources, and it's totally unacceptable to us. We believe that this is a conflict of interest, because the organisation administration should anticipate and create an organisation in line with the needs of citizens and the state, and that the human resources sector fills in this organization, prepares human resources, prepares personnel schools, prepares people, prepares people for education, training, etc., not that the sector is working for the organisation. Believe me, experience shows that if the sector is also a real organisation, this organisation is not created on the basis of the needs of the system, state, society and citizens, but on the basis of the needs of those closest to that administration, or very often, even personally, the organization is made to certain places for certain people. It is gradually unacceptable for us, that graduates of the criminal and police academy are treated, as well as graduates of all other universities, as well as graduates of private schools, where we know that it is easier to doctor rather than finish, let's say, the criminal and police academy. We believe that everyone who enters and passes a triage of enrolment at the Criminal Police Academy, and this triage is extremely serious, so these are practically the conditions that exist for admission to the Ministry of the Interior, should, or must, be admitted to permanent police work. Which is why the question arises, why is there a crime-police academy, which is why there's a university that's been formed by the Ministry of the Interior, how do we educate people who don't have a job in the police tomorrow, and at the same time when we hire those people who end up in colleges who publish suspicious diplomas, dubious master's degree and even more suspicious doctorates? So that's something that needs to be changed and that's something that has to be consistent with the human map, that's something that has to be consistent with the projections of the organization administration and human resources. So the crime-police academy needs to, must, school the kind of police that is necessary in the projection of the future, or in the projection of what it is that they need to do after their completion. We also consider it necessary to make a regional entry, i.e. not all in Belgrade, the way it is currently done, but to define needs in relation to the local, or region, so that they are obliged to work for a certain number of years in the region from which they came. It's totally unacceptable for us, I believe, for all the employees of the police, that the police themselves, by this law, abolish the presummation of innocence. This law provides for loss of work for all who are subject to judicial proceedings, i.e. the prosecutor is in charge of proceedings. We agree that this condition should be in employment, but we do not agree that this condition should also be for those who are employed. We think it's too harsh that it's unacceptable to put themselves in a position of subjugation with regard to civil servants, for example, against whom a procedure can be conducted, and they won't get fired, and the officers against whom the case is conducted without, meaning a court epilogue, are scheduled to be fired. It's something that's really bad. I believe that as long as it remains in the law, we've given the amendment to correct it, that the Constitutional Court will change it, because I'm simply saying, you don't have the right to fire people just because there's a criminal charge. You've misdefined the principle of subordination, the engagement of a special unit and special units. We do not see the need for the minister to decide on the use of a special unit, not a special, or a gendarme, so there is a very bad situation where the chief of police, or who is authorized to manage in an adequate manner, cannot. We think it's a centralization that leads to politicization of police activity. As far as the dating law is concerned, this is a good attempt to make a law that should be modern and modern, which should allow Serbian citizens to exercise their rights through the Constitution guaranteed, but in a very bad way. We've given a large number of amendments, for us there are a few things that are totally unacceptable, from, say, getting a license for a reunion getting from 6 a.m. to 24 o'clock in the evening, what happens after 24 o'clock in the evening, if some gathering takes several days, do people who have gathered have to break up? I'll remind you that at the time when you were the opposition, you had a gathering that was always scheduled to last for days. What would that mean? What does it mean that the one who got the opportunity to organize the rally must provide a passageway, understands police, military, emergency services, fire departments, but how do they think they provide a passageway and for public transport, how much on the given space has been given the opportunity to hold a rally or rally on the move, how does he think he's providing a gateway to public transport by buses, or, say, taxi services? So that's something that's unacceptable to us. Also, it is unacceptable that the organizer should ensure a safe arrival at the gathering, I don't know how you think any organiser can do it, you'll have the opportunity to assume that you also participate in such gatherings, after the next elections, as an opposition, and how you think to ensure the arrival of someone who comes to Belgrade from Vranja, Valjev, and that's something that is unacceptable for us. I also want to say briefly, and in terms of public order and peace, this is something that is also necessary, and we appreciate your activities that you have focused on making a new law, but it is unacceptable for us, that sanctions are practically the same to those who commit prostitution, as well as to people who are practically organisers, and that nowhere, or at least I haven't seen them, they don't mention people who are users of such services and that's something that is unacceptable to us, and we think that those who betray apartments should pay a lot more punishment, that they're sanctioned much more seriously, because prostitution is something that happens in the whole world, it's not unknown, but we need to see who this organiser is, because by the rule, these are the violent people who are harassing and torturing, and who know how they treat everything. The Democratic Party says this Police Act has also not adequately treated the internal control sector. We believe it is a vital place from which Serbian citizens can draw security from those who need to be guarded by police officers. The internal control sector must be completely independent, completely free in work, be financially independent, that the selection of people working in the internal control sector is independent of political decision-making, and that is something that is practice in the world, and I think that you tried, but not enough to raise the sector to a much higher level and to provide you, as a minister, as well as to all citizens in Serbia, to be adequately controlled by people who work in the MUP. Thank you, and I'll get back to you one more time after we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46300	He's got a word for it. Nebojsa Stefanovic, I apologize, Mrs Obradovic, I have already given the word to Mr Stefanovic, so you will get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46301	At first, I'd like to say a few sentences, only if you'll allow me to discuss the informal conversation I've had with the MPs, regarding the Police Act and other laws. We did break time, but because there was an unexpected number of MPs from the ruling parties in the first term, and that's the practice we had before, to talk in such a way, that there would be no disputes, because these are voluntary meetings, which aim to inform the MPs of the essence of the law and the normal that we have brought, and about 45 or 46 MPs who were present, in the hall, we had to come from Hall No. 2 to move to the Little Hall of the National Assembly, because simply these people could not sit, because there is not enough room there. Then we crossed over there and we did in about half an hour, but it did show up for me an unusually large number of MPs who had asked a lot of questions about it. Two or three MPs, the opposition entered during that session, and they later came at the time we agreed in the Small Hall, and we haven't arrived yet, and that's true, and I'm sorry about that, because it really wasn't intended to do them in any way, I don't respect them, I just couldn't get there at that time. We arrived half an hour late and this was MP Milan Petrovic, he was in Hall No. 2 and with him we had a conversation concerning the laws which were of interest to him, and questions, and indeed there was no ill intention, simply a great number of messengers, and the time was respited. You know, in the National Assembly, it's never possible to plan time obligations and that's the thing. As far as the law is concerned, so, first of all, as far as the police in the community are concerned, we have foreseen through Article 223. The law on police, which says -- the Assembly and the executive bodies of the province's autonomy or units of local self-government, including the construction of the municipality, are considering a safety report in their area, taking views on human and property safety priorities and submitting proposals to the head of the competent organisational unit and the ministry. In order to act within the meaning of the Assembly, i.e. the executive body of the circuit autonomy or unit of local self-government, including urban municipalities, may establish an advisory body. So in this sense, police are reporting to local self-government at the bar. He can't manage, of course, because this could result in various abuses, for example. in the case of suspected building permits or even more suspicious building permits in the pastures, which you could then use through local self-government to abuse. Therefore, it is very important for the police to remain professional in this regard and it is responding to the hierarchy command line provided for by the Police Act. As far as the Criminal Police Academy is concerned, Article 257 states very clearly that people who completed their studies within the deadline of a higher school institution, educated for the achievement of study programmes for the needs of police education, whose studies were financed from the Serbian budget and who had completed contracts with the ministry for each school year, have the advantage of implementing the competition if they meet general and special conditions for establishing a working relationship with the ministry. So, people who finish KPA absolutely have a value for employment in the MUP. Of course, we've left room for experts from different profiles, if it's forensics, microbiology or anything needed by the MUP, there's room for employment from other colleges, and otherwise one of the largest number of executives, I've seen exactly the statistical table for executives in the MUP, next to the KPA absolutely dominates the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, as far as people who, I say, are top and middle level police managers. So first of all, these are people who are doing the most police work today, law school, KPA and a few people from all the other colleges. So, the story is that these are now police ranks, the executives are like this, and take a look at what these people have ended, you'll see that these are the colleges I'm talking about. As far as counselors are concerned, I've spoken to a large number of people, above all the law has been done by people from the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, who have, I'd say, the most experience in it. I've spoken to a number of people from the country and abroad. One of my advisers is General Zivkovic, former commander of the Land Army, who worked on rationalising and implementing security reforms, but also other people from the country and abroad, people from the OSCE, people from the European Commission, after all, all of them were foreigners and they played a lot of role in the adoption of certain legislation, but the key role was played by people from our ministry, who ultimately assessed whether something was meaningful, whether it was applicable and whether we could do these things in the best way and in the best interest of Serbia's citizens. As to why the minister has the possibility to give consent to the use of special units, or special units? It's a financial aspect that is often forgotten. I know that people sometimes don't think about it, that people think about some security aspect, but, you know, every use of the gendarmes costs. And you now, if you have uncontrollable use of special units, that the minister is not even informed about it, or that he does not give consent, we can come here at some point that we no longer have the money for the country's basic defence capabilities, and then it will be the minister's responsibility, and then everyone will say, "I'm sorry you didn't plan," that was yours. That's why the minister gives consent. He doesn't run, he doesn't command, he doesn't give a warrant how it's done, he just gives consent, and believe it's a matter of automation. The minister does not essentially give some guidance for the work of these bodies, but just says – yes, use if you have knowledge, because there will be threats, for example. Public order and peace on a larger scale, use Gendarmes units. Tokostá, a member of the Gendarmeria, his day-to-day engagement, travel expenses, diaries, the engagement of these people has a certain price. As far as public gatherings are concerned, I don't know that it's been organized in the country in the last few years, not one set that lasted several days, and that it's disrupted traffic. As for that, you can never define that part by precise law because you can define everything by law to one extent, but you to citizens who say – here, I want and gather, 50 of us now want to stand in the middle of the city and stop traffic and that we can endure ten days; you say – we have the right, we want; you threaten the right of other people. These people need to be talked to, and these people need to be explained that they can't be able to do their gathering in some place to threaten that other people are passing, passing by ambulances, passing traffic, going people, walking normally, moving, fulfilling everything they have a right to in their lives. So one right cannot be more powerful than another right, but it is a tolerance for fulfilling one right, it must exist with other citizens. Maybe someone doesn't like being under his window that's nearby some state institutions keep gathering people and protesting, praising, criticizing, maybe he doesn't like it, but he has to suffer because he lives in a place like this. They can't do it for 24 hours either, because that man has the right to sleep and his family has the right to move, and that's just the balance we're trying to establish. I am sure that after the next elections that citizens will define themselves for the past, that citizens will define themselves for these parties that are now joining together, they may still opt for the future, for this policy, and for representatives of Alexander Vukic, SNS. In any case, we, the government with 6% will not hold, our chair is not an obstacle, we will work, and the citizens will decide who they want and how they want Serbia to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46302	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. (Dragan Šutanovac: Replica. I apologize Mr. Sutanovac, Mrs. Obradovic, for hurting the Rules of Procedure already when I gave my word to Mr. Minister. Here you are, MP Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46303	The Honorable Chairman, by article 107, has been injured by the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm really surprised that someone who's been in parliament for so long, takes serious positions and in the party they come from, makes a combination like this. It is truly unserious and similar to someone who may have gone into politics yesterday so that the Institute of the Interior, the Institute of the Interior, all MPs present at these informal consultations, which are indeed a matter of good faith, are not prescribed anywhere, but, better yet, there were 70 of us at these consultations, that I am correcting the minister in a statement, because it was very important to me as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs who participated in the organisation and these consultations and a few before I try to introduce as a practice, because I think it is very good, the number of amendments is reduced, there are being made, there are some misunderstandings, ambiguity being explained. Many MPs give up the amendment because they see that it has been resolved in some other way or that a certain sublegal act will resolve it. That very good intention of ours is packed in what the previous speaker is trying to say is that someone violated his right. Do you really think that 70 MPs with the top of the MUP, or working group working on the proposals of these three laws, were sitting and silent in the Small Hall, so that two opposition MPs would be angry and gone and would wait for them to leave these scheduled consultations? For God's sake, this was where we were working. We could've worked two more hours behind it. The minister has repeatedly warned us that he does have scheduled future terms, but MPs insisted on further clarifying what was unclear to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46304	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46305	Col. Milan Petric has indeed waited patiently for our delay and after that there are a dozen people from the MUP, along with me as chairman of the Committee who wants to accompany the whole process, because I think these are very important processes, we have remained to discuss all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46306	Time, you have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46307	But if the colleagues who want to dramatize to get in here, no one has forced them out of here, as they're told. They want me to insist that it's not true that someone sent them away. No one can throw an MP out of any room in parliament, and if he wants to construct something, it's a shame for those years, for political experience, for such games.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46308	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The time exceeded will be taken from the MP's group's time. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Maria Obradović, from town: No. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46309	Mr. Bečić, the Rules of Procedure, Article 108 of attitude 1, has been violated because in the presentation of Mr. Sutanovac in a negative, humiliating and extremely arrogant manner he treated the opposition itself. Both the position and the opposition is part of the political spectrum. We were all formerly both opposition and position. You don't need it in such a humiliating way, especially not with that threatening tone – you'll see when we drive you into opposition; you shouldn't say it like the opposition is, I don't know, jail, what? On the other hand, what we will never do, which is that we will never humiliate the citizens by exercising power and holding tightly to the chair, as Bojan Pajtic does in Banovina with 6% support for citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina. In the end, I think as long as they had the chance to drive us into the opposition yesterday. Yesterday, elections were held for members of the Baški Monoštor local community council in Sombor municipality and in that council of the local community by the will of the citizens yesterday, I believe and know why they resent the other side, but yesterday, just the ones who want to drive us into opposition in those elections won one term, so joined, so powerful, so great.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46310	Mr. Granny, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46311	A small SNS won only nine out of 11 members for local community councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46312	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46313	So to warn Mr. Sutanovec, they had a chance to drive us into the opposition yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46314	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. But because you said a little something that has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. Yes, thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, you have no right to a replica. The Minister of the Lord is not in any way, he just gave an explanation based on your presentation, did not in any way address you so that you would have the right to a replica. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Mr. Becic, mentioned Pajtic. I'm mentioned personally. Mr. Sutanovac, you are an MP and you know very well that you cannot get a replica after reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Becic, I've been misread. Mr. Sutanovac, I can't help you here. You said yourself you had the time you had left. You can come in at the end of the debate. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What are you turning the Rules of Procedure now when we talk about the law in the most decent way possible? ) I am most decently trying to direct you to your parliamentary rights that at this point you do not have the opportunity to speak. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: It's just amazing.) Well, you're that Rules of Procedure... The word is made by the MP Natasa Vučković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46315	You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, member of the 107th Dignity of Parliament. The predecessor who spoke here about the breach of the Rules of Procedure wanted to talk about us talking against the opposition. Is there really any courtesy in that he calls himself, therefore, an MP who called the opposition the Fifth Column? So don't worry about how we talk about the opposition. We will defend the rights of the opposition, unlike you who are in every way trying to violate it, including the fact that the MPs have made you late for the meeting, Minister. With representatives of the opposition, he talks about the government's relationship with the ruling majority towards the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46316	Thank you. As MP Zoran Babic, who partly spoke something that did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, so did you. And I'm taking that time, two minutes from the MP's time. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Why two minutes? It wasn't for two minutes. Mr. Sutanovac, that's my right to chair. Mrs Natasa Vuckovic has misused the wording of the Rules of Procedure, using it to report to Mr Babic. I, as chairman, have taken two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, as I have done to the parliamentary group of the majority. Dear Sutanovac, from the scene, but she hasn't spoken in two minutes. That doesn't matter, Mr. Sutanovac. If you were an MP who reads the Rules of Procedure, you could read in article 103 to take two minutes no matter how much she spoke. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46317	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 and Article 107, Article 103, 104, where both in the breach of the Rules of Procedure and in the advertising of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure again directly addressed the other fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Unlike many in this hall, I have at least enough courage, but also the honesty to offer an apology when I use a word that is stronger, unlike many who, for much greater and worse acts, when hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs, for robbery privatisation, for devastation of all the values of this country, have not had the courage to stand up and to instruct an apology not to me, but to instruct an apology to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Considering, Mr. Becic, what kind of policy they represent and how they work, I believe the opposition position will hold for the next few decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46318	Thank you. Also, since you took advantage of your reply to the Rules of Procedure, I am subtracting two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46319	The chairman, Article 103, paragraph 8, you have injured, which says this - in the case of the position of the 7th member of the National Assembly, it is required that the time used by the MP using the right of the position of the 1st member be taken away from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, which remains for the search. So he's not talking about two minutes, how you've been trying to teach us a lesson here, that you have the right to take away, but that time that was used, and you've estimated that it's abused. So here's what I'm teaching you now, because you obviously haven't learned this Rules of Procedure enough in two years, so I read it to you. That's what it says and I ask you to do it. I ask you once again to break the practice in this Assembly that MPs of the ruling parties appear and abuse the Rules of Procedure and say immediately at the beginning – I will not ask the Assembly to plead, then replicate, then you sometimes say – well, we will take that time or we will not take that time, can speak contrary to Article 103 which speaks for the longest two minutes, which you very much like to interpret could be two minutes, or less than two minutes, but does not say that it can last longer. Well, someone here can speak for two and a half, three minutes, as long as he likes, to use the right to a replica when there's no right. At the beginning of today's session, counterpart Elvira Kovac was given the right to a replica after the minister's statement that she had not been mentioned, that nothing negative had been said by the minister about her presentation, she only got the right to respond to what the minister said. We opposition MPs have been right here for two years, we can't fight it, we can't fight it. I ask you to have the same archaic against all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46320	Thank you. Mr Babic has just said in his previous report to the Rules of Procedure that he wants the Assembly to declare itself after the presentation when I asked, so that what you are saying is not true, as the exact time is taken computerly, the minute used by abuse of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of what I say it takes two minutes, means the time of two minutes used at this time for the abuse of reporting by the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Well, the citizens heard what you said. They know very well what you are saying, Mr. Djurisic, and how you behave in the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. All right, he'll come out. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46321	Mr. Chairman, you have injured a 107th member by addressing me in front of fellow Members and the public who is watching this transmission. In what way? By saying that I have not read the Rules of Procedure, and then you have read something that does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, or you have invented that article 103 states that it is taken two minutes, regardless of the time used by the MP, for which you estimate that it has been misused. Mr. Chairman, not only have you offended me, but you are reading and making up lies by referring to a Rules of Procedure in which it does not say so. This has never happened in the Serbian Parliament, that anyone else should take the Rules of Procedure, such as yourself, and read and invent a text that does not appear in the Rules of Procedure. It may be funny to you, it may be funny to you, but Mr. Chairman, this has never happened in Serbian parliamentaryism. I ask you indeed, give yourselves a warning, and be a man of honor, and say, "Behold, I warn myself." You've read about Sergio Matarella, Martadeli, and I don't know what, you've been wrong about the synopsis, but you've never invented members in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46322	I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Look how fast you make it up. I didn't read or quote that article at all, but I just invited you to read Article 103. Nothing more. I didn't say a single quote from that article. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, "How are you not?") ) Mr. Sutanovac, I didn't, we'll take a rock note, so you quickly invented it in front of the Serbian public. I only invited you to read it because you do not read the Rules of Procedure, as in many other cases you do not read the Rules of Procedure, and now you would not know that Mr Djurisic did not tell you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46323	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, uh- Article 107. I think you had to, Mr. Becic, after all the insults that were sent to you, make a warning to Mr. Sutanovac and get him to read one material and a Rules of Procedure. Article 103, paragraph 8, for Mr Sutanovac, reads: In the case of the position of the 7th member of the National Assembly, it is required that the time, which the MP uses by misusing the right of the position of the 1st member, is taken away, writes, subtracts, from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his MP group has remaining time to search. What doesn't it say in the Rules of Procedure, which was written by the MP group DS, which belonged to Mr. Sutanovac? What made you suffer to be insulted like this, and because he didn't want to read Article 103 of Article 8 which explicitly and accurately states everything you have, Mr. Becic, in particular? Who needs to give himself a warning? Who needs to stand up and make an apology, primarily to you, because of all the insults you suffered a few minutes ago, and then to the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who unfortunately listen to these things, and only because he didn't want to read Article 103 of Article 8, because he didn't want to look into the truth and to read what he wrote himself by creating this and this Rules of Procedure about Work?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46324	I thank you, Mr. Granny. After all the members exhausted, I give my word to MP Marko Djurisic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46325	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected officers of the Police Director's office, who was not even read here that he was present, I don't know how and why this happened, chaired and respected gentlemen of the Ministry and Police, it is interesting that the debate on the three laws, which arrived on December 31st last year, is being discussed today, the day after the parliamentary elections were announced, a law which, in our opinion, will not be fulfilled by the minister today, and has repeated several times, not only these previous days since this session was scheduled, but practically since the start of his term when he announced the adoption of the law on police within several deadlines which are not respected, constantly explaining how much more needs to be done, to wait a little longer. Finally, that law was passed on to the government and sent to the Assembly, I say, on December 31st last year, and today it is before us. The minister said that its essence is better and more efficient to regulate police work, that a better and better fight against corruption will be achieved, both in society and in the ministry itself, as well as in various other things. We believe, on the contrary, that if this law is adopted in this form proposed by the government, it will lead to further deepening of police politicisation, because this bill gives the ministry much more authority than before, allowing it to influence police work in investigations, and thus we believe that police work will be under even greater political pressure and that police will deal with fulfilling the political and other expectations of the minister, or the party from which the minister comes. We think it's bad in any case, regardless of which party the minister comes from, and having experience in the past two years of the work of the police minister we are particularly concerned about that fact. In this regard, we find it interesting in the police law article 14, which says the minister can request special reports on police work and other organisational units of the ministry with respect to operational independence in the conduct of police affairs, especially when police take measures and actions in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. We find it totally unacceptable that the minister himself is looking for these reports. We asked the amendment to do so only when it is required by the prosecution or the court who believe that the police do not do what is expected and thus protect the integrity of the police, protect the investigations that the police are conducting and that it will be possible, if this provision of the law remains, to have a political impact on police investigations in progress. What characterizes all these three laws, in our opinion, is a lot of vague definitions, and in the sense that many things are left to be decided, to prescribing sublegal documents, or, say, a new law on non-existent records. If he were in the package today, we could see what these solutions are, how the police will process personality data and how the records will be kept. Here only in the transitional and final provisions is that a special law will be passed. Since we're going to have an election, that bill won't be minimum for six months. What does that mean? Under what rules will the ministry keep records and process personality data for the next six months? What's going to happen to those records that currently exist? These are things that are not clear enough and that, according to us, must be clearly defined before the adoption of this law. And in other laws there are general places. For example, the draft law on public order and peace in Article 2 states that the competent authorities to maintain public order and peace are the MUP, the municipal police, inspection authorities and other competent authorities. That means all the authorities of the state, local self-government. This then raises the question, when we look further at the law that speaks, let's say, of insulting officials in the performance of their duties, which are other competent authorities and whether a citizen can fall, not knowing that these state authorities are also in charge of this law on public order and peace, and possibly some of their dissatisfaction may offend some official in those other authorities in prison for 30 to 60 days or perhaps pass with a fine of 50 to 150 thousand dinars? I think things like that are very dangerous, and I'm referring to the experience that we have. This new body that has not existed so far, the municipal police, we have had numerous examples of dissatisfaction in cases where the municipal police respond. There have been cases of physical conflicts and when it has been found that the municipal police have violated their powers. Is now a citizen, in such a situation, in a dispute with the municipal police... He would have to know that they are official persons and that by insulting them, this law is an insult, or insult, that it is an act that demeans another person’s personality. This is very general. In that case, will citizens, who do not have a ticket in public transport or sell certain things on the street or what is happening in this difficult economic situation when citizens are barely putting an end to the end, because of the government's poor economic policy, have to pay the dragon's fines of 50 to 150 thousand dinars or end up in prison from 30 to 60 days? Let me get back to the Police Act a little bit more. It is interesting that, in our opinion, the further positions of the director of police are diminished. The Director of the Police does not even exist a special member who defines the powers of the Director of Police is said only that there is a directorship and that the directorship is run by the Director, and that is all, and then it is talked about the powers of the Directorate, the Director of Police has no specific and precise jurisdiction and that is interesting if we look again, I say, in this context of the time in which we are, where we do not have a Director of Police, where he is relieved in half of his term of office by reason that he has met all the legal conditions for retirement. When he was appointed two and a half years ago for a term of five years, we knew that this moment would happen, perhaps even then there were certain pension conditions that Mr. Veljovic had then had, but yet a decision was made to appoint him as Director of Police and then someone suddenly along with the adoption of this law last year and the Director of Police is no longer the Director. We've got V.D. Director, which even if the law we're adopting today doesn't recognize. There's talk of a director, there's talk of a deputy director, there's nothing to talk about an acting officer. This law also doesn't have any deadlines anywhere, what happens when the Director's office ceases, in which time a new director is elected, in which time the competition is called, how long it takes, and we can get into a situation where we have a V.D. a year, two or more days, and that's in our opinion bad. Looking at the situation that we have today, which I can understand the minister may not have known when he proposed this law to the government, we have a member of the 253th law that says that the mandate of the Director of Police, the current mandate of the Director of Police continues even after the adoption of this law, so now we have this member too high, because we have no police director. So, this member, I say well, perhaps the minister didn't know when he came to the government that the Director of the Police Veljovic would be removed, so he proposed a law with this member, but then the question arises – what does the Minister of the Interior know if he didn't know it. Also, we believe that the very poorly defined launch and conduct of the disciplinary procedure as prescribed by this law. We find it very wrong to do these procedures, it is unclear the procedure in which the procedure is being initiated, there are unclear deadlines in which this procedure is being conducted and how long it can be done, how it ends and opens up the possibility of direct influence on police members, by constantly threatening the launch of a disciplinary procedure, by stalling that this process ends in putting pressure on police members and thus making it impossible for them to do their job freely and quality. We have proposed a few amendments to every member that defines it. What we also think is missing, and that experience that we have, and I'm not going to say that's a feature in the last two years, unfortunately it's been going on for a very long time, and that's so-called. leaks of information to the media from police investigations where data that should be protected, or should not be made available to the public, appear in the tabloid press. This law doesn't even recognize punishment. We think there's something to be done. In the end, once again from experience for the last few days, and some of it seems to me, the psychic powers the minister acquired, we were expecting perhaps some department for psychic investigations, since apparently some police methods, classical investigations did not lead to the resolution and discovery of the perpetrators. For example, an attack on a journalist a year and a half ago, an attack on a member of the Anti-Corruption Council a few months ago, has had no results. I invite you ministers to use these psychic powers of yours, or if you've already hired someone for these things, that we may in this way reach the perpetrator of the attack on these people and other numerous, unfortunately, crimes that have not been obtained in the last four years by police or court epilogues. I'd like to say a few more words about the Public Assembly Act. We'll agree that we've been in a legal vacuum for a few months, that we knew that the court's decision to be late with the adoption of this law, what I'm saying, was that I had the opportunity to attend a meeting that the Ministry organised in the National Assembly, a public hearing about the draft law on public gathering, where there were MPs and representatives of the unions, the Citizens' Protector, other independent bodies, NGOs, and looking at these solutions from the bill and the solutions in that draft, I see that some things have changed. I am sorry that we did not have such a discussion in parliament, when it comes to the Law on Police and the Law on Public Order and Peace, because it would certainly have come to some more quality solutions, which now exist in the law on public and order and peace, compared to that draft a few months ago. However, there are things that have not been solved. Now I'm talking about situations that we know have happened in previous years, these are situations when two joints are reported in the same place, at the same time. In what way will this law, which assembly will be approved and which will not. That thing wasn't solved. We feel that there are some misunderstandings again, namely, the law stipulates that several things are listed in the application. It's among other things the leader of the gathering. And that's when I said that my term was completely inappropriate to our law. We have suggested that this term be replaced by the term face for contact, because this term leader thinks it is inappropriate, there are various types of gatherings, some gatherings are not like being led by a leader. Also, one thing that is sought and that is entirely controversial to us, he says, is that data is required of interest in security. It's so wide-ranging, if you don't have it in your application, and then that application can be denied to you, what is data of interest to security that the organiser must in his application deliver to the police in order for the meeting to be approved. We think that this way the small door organizes what the Constitution says, which is that the gathering in Serbia is free and can be limited by law, only if the gathering violates human and minority rights and other freedoms or threatens morality. Or when the rally wants to be organised in a place closed to the public. This formulation I have now repeated from the Constitution is found in several members of this Law on Public Assembly and has not been elaborated in general. They're just general places. Articles 6 and 1 and 3 refer to the places where human and minority rights are violated by the maintenance of the gathering. I don't know how places themselves can break, or organizations in those places? Only by some activity in that place can rights be violated, not just the fact that someone will come to a place. Places can't violate human rights, at least in our opinion. So we believe that this law also requires interventions in order to achieve the Constitution's intention as much as possible, are the citizens of Serbia, who voted this Constitution in 2006, that the right to gather in Serbia is free, where it can only be limited in certain situations when other human, minority rights and freedoms are violated, or that this law, as it is written, is not clear enough, leaves a lot of room for the ministry to not approve of the meetings in any future period, to approve certain political lines, and to prohibit others because it may not like the idea of the one who convenes such a gathering or organises such a gathering, has. That is why we believe and cannot support any of these three legislative proposals until we see the ministry's response to our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46326	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46327	Thank you. All I have to do is inform the MPs and the public that we haven't been waiting for this law. There was no need to wait for something. We have worked on this law, consulted and, to a large extent, the European Commission's opinion has been delayed to put this law in front of MPs in the previous year and to discuss this before. As far as I'm concerned, we had a debate with the MPs last spring about the text of the law. We were ready in June, but you know, if you want to go through European integration, then some rules apply, and at that point you have to play by those rules, if you want to be part of some larger team. As far as politicising the police, I couldn't hear less precisely about the text of this law, since, while some others were in power, the law was passed and never changed until this moment when the minister and the day of today's internal affairs were under way. The Home Secretary is in charge of a pre-crisis procedure. Where you're going to major politicize the police, not the prosecution. The minister today can conduct a pre-criminal procedure under the current Police Act. We haven't heard a single sentence about it, while some others were in power. Not a single sentence, to say: this is not good, it is not good for the minister to conduct a pre-criminal procedure, it should be done by the prosecution, or by the courts before that. No, that was great at the time, because there were other investigations at the time, so it was good to do so. We now have the right and the Minister and each of the next ministers abolished, so we have, so we have the possibility that the Minister, who has also never bothered, has the possibility of an extraordinary improvement as far as he can think of. The minister can advance any member of the police at any time without any criteria. Where is this career advancement? What's this about, people? Now we're changing that, Minister no more, not the Minister, but no one else has the opportunity to advance in the police anymore. It's being abolished by the police. It's being abolished entirely because where is the essence of career advancement if someone skips what was necessary for that next rank and someone just pulls it out of the hat? That's impossible. A dozen other things. Minister, not that we have reduced the powers of the minister by this law, but rather drastic. What's the matter? Article 14 states that by respecting the police's operational independence, especially in the light of investigations conducted under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the minister may request special reports. Of course he can. Imagine that we are talking about the state of traffic security and that I cannot ask the police for the state of traffic on the roads at the moment, but to wait for the prosecutor or judge to tell me – you can ask for the state of the police report. Of course I can request a report from the police. I'm responsible for the ministry's work. I answer before you, you choose me, the citizens voted for us, for some more, for some less, but the citizens trusted the National Assembly who chose us. Also, the financial aspect and work of the ministry. People forget about it all the time. That's what we live on. You can't throw money away when someone comes to mind. That is what the interior minister in the MUP is responsible for, and other ministers in their ministries. It must be known whether the use of certain units, the means of use, will require additional costs, in order to plan this with the budget. If you have an emergency situation, which in the MUP is specific or more specific than other ministries, it is necessary to consider how much money it will cost Serbian citizens for this specific activity. There's a very clear law. Article 14 states that in addition to the rights and duties governing the work of the state administration, the minister may, in accordance with the provisions of this law, request a special report on the work of the police and other organisational units of the ministry with respect for operational independence in the conduct of police affairs, especially when measures and actions are taken in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. So it's very clear, there's no politicization, but there's order, responsibility and control. While the state is organised in such a way that the ministry is run by a minister, it must have information about the work of its ministry. If it's not necessary for a state minister, the state can abolish the interior ministers. The police department could be and there were such systems where the Police Directorate is a special organisational unit of the government under the government and the government is managing it. But even then they account for someone, someone who's chosen, and then he can't be a cop alone and do what comes to mind, he's bringing himself regulations about financial pursuits, he's writing himself orders, he's spending money on cars, fuel, etc. There is someone in the country who must predict it, because it is part of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That right is something that is responsibility and obligation. The law dramatically reduced the powers of the minister and the minister's authority and placed a dramatically higher authority on the director of police. The Director of Police is doing absolutely everything and says – The Police Directorate, led by the Director of Police, absolutely managed by the Director of Police, developed a strategic assessment of public security, adopted strategic plans for the police, participated in the development of a human resources management plan and programme of training in the training and co-operation with the organisational units responsible for human resources management, coordinated and directed the work of police administration and organisational units in the headquarters, carried out control and instructional work of the police administration and the organisational unit in the headquarters, directly involved in performing certain more complex tasks from the work of the police administrations, providing international contracts, performing the tasks of international operational cooperation, creating the necessary conditions for maintaining and raising the training and preparedness of police to operate in a state of increased risk in emergency situations, etc., to address status issues in public affairs, without legal action. There's nothing he doesn't do. Absolutely all the role in the police has a police director and it's very clear in this law. As for the offense part, so far the insult has been a crime. I have to inform you that there have been between 6,000 and 7,000 cases a year that have been conducted on this and could have gone to prison, but whether they will go to jail now and yesterday and in a hundred years, the court will decide, not the police. Who goes to jail and doesn't go to jail decides the court. So far, it's been a crime. Now it's a violation. We thus reduce the level of responsibility for that kind of offence. We don't prosecute anyone for that anymore. He could also be convicted and paid his sentence and went to prison, only then it was a crime. Today we predict it to be a violation. As for the work of every organisational unit and inspection service, including the Communist Police, that is what those managers involved should be responsible for. The state police have nothing to do with the police. The communal police are educated in local self-government units and there are certain touching parts of the police work in terms of a certain control function, in terms of public order and peace, but the police with the management of the communal police have nothing to do with it and we cannot be held accountable for what someone is doing. For anyone who breaks the law there are sanctions, there is a court and it is perfectly normal and appropriate. Unfortunately, there is no department for psychic investigations, but there is a corruption investigation department, there is a special service to combat organised crime. It's important to me that you know. The interior ministry will insist on that in particular. I am sorry that one name is rarely mentioned in this National Assembly, which is the name Milan Panic. I remind you, Milan Panic is a journalist who was killed in 2001. Milan Panic was killed in 2001, a journalist from Jagodina, and you know what the biggest shame is – that by 2012, no one asked for a list of the man's phone when he was killed. Such an interest was in these regimes to determine who killed Milan Pantic, that even basic investigative actions had not been carried out. Now, that's a shame that has marked everything since his murder in 2001 to 2012, and that is a shame. When these people talk about the rights of journalists and when they worry about journalists, I sincerely doubt their well-meaning and sincerely doubt that they are doing it for anyone but political reasons. If they had been honest, they would have sought justice for Milan Pantic, too, if that were the case, but it wasn't. As for the public gathering, whether it's a public meeting, it's a paper of the law, and I don't think people understand that well, the paper in the law is that now the court finally decides whether you can have a public meeting or not, not a MUP. The Ministry of the Interior may, for its own reasons, assess that maintenance conditions have not been obtained, to prohibit you from meeting. You should appeal to the court and the court as soon as possible, for example. decide you can hold a meeting. Now the court decides about it, it's the essence of the law, not the M.O.P. The interior ministry has its position in the first degree, which can also be second-degree, but the essence is judicial protection. That's what progress is all about. During some others, they decided, and now we've left it to the court and there's a difference. You can tell who wanted democratisation and who didn't want it. After all, it is known who had a majority in this National Assembly and who could change that law at any moment. As far as the meetings are concerned, we must collect, of course, information of interest for security checks. That's why we've been looking for a while because, you know, you can't have a certain security check where the data is collected in an hour. Then it would be about seriousness or intent not to do it at all. But it's very important that the public gathering is completely free and it's very important that you have the possibility of spontaneous gathering. So, all we haven't had until now is a spontaneous gathering and a complete freedom of public gathering. It can't be gathered in front of kindergarten, it can't be gathered in front of the school, it can't be gathered in front of a water or electricity plant, and I don't see why anyone, unless there's an evil intention, would be gathered here. What's someone doing in front of kindergarten? What's someone gonna do in front of where our kids grow up? There's nothing to gather around. Let it gather in front of the government, the Assembly, the local self-government, let it come to the squares, let it come to the parks, let it come wherever it wants, and this law fully allows. This is a very liberal law on gathering. That's what my colleague, Chotric, said when he spoke and saw it well. So, compared to all the laws so far, this is absolutely the most liberal setting. This coming to a certain place, can some places violate certain human rights? They can, if it's about religious objects and those who call together with certain content insult the religious feelings of the religious community. You can't come in front of the Church of St. Mark, and that it's contained together to insult faith, for example. Orthodox faith, or to go before the mosque, and you have some completely different content, either in front of the synagogue or any other religious community. Now, that's a place that can offend someone and hurt their rights. If you want to organize a gathering that is entirely against the religious group, don't go in front of their religious object, because it will say that you intend only to offend them. There's nothing to look for. Go to the traffic station, go to a public place, go wherever you want, but don't go to a place that insults other people. It doesn't make sense. This is a country that wants to respect both religious and all other rights of citizens. So this is a very liberal law, a law that will allow citizens to have the opportunity to come together freely and peacefully, but a law that will protect public order and peace and that will allow these rights not to endanger other citizens' rights, because that would not then be the goal of the law that we are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46328	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! Mr. Djurisic, you're looking for a replica, and the minister just answered your questions. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Other MPs also received replicas in that case. I don't remember. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I remember. ) The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46329	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend the efforts, work and energy that the Working Party of the Republic of Serbia has shown in drawing up this law. To be perfectly precise and clear, the deadlines you set for yourself and fulfilled, and we have a new law on police after 10 years, by having two amendments to the existing law in 2011 and six months ago. During law-making, the Working Group also co-operated with many NGOs, trade unions, international institutions, and above all with the OSCE and the Council of Europe. The dialogue was conducted responsibly, based on arguments and evidence and without suffocating criticism. Parliament has been extremely active and involved in the preparation of this law both within the Committee of Resolution and through the public hearings that we have organised here in Parliament, as well as through the consultations you have had with the MPs. There is still good practice that you are introducing, Mr. Minister, before the law is passed by the MUP. It is true that on that day when consultations were scheduled, we had a number of MPs in office, there were 70 of them, as we heard, we were asking questions and at that point it was inappropriate, regardless of what you had already scheduled consultations with the opposition, to get up and to practically leave that meeting. I think that's clear and there's no need to be a problem about it. The new law on police is more precise, there are many newspapers and it contains, in my opinion, three set goals. The first goal is to depolitise police, fight corruption and crime and increase police efficiency. When I said at the beginning of my presentation that right now the right time for the adoption of a new police law was, first of all, the fact that relations have changed for these 10 years, that the circumstances have changed, the conditions in which the ministry is working and that we have this bill of new working conditions, greater powers of the internal control sector, which will take account of new powers for all police employees and not only police control, but also finance, which is very important. Also, managers and employees of high-risk corruption-related areas, property maps of employees, a test of integrity as a method of detecting corruption will be more frequently checked. When I talk about the measures the new police law provides for to combat corruption and crime, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strengthens its control role by introducing a portal to monitor public finances, based on which MPs and all employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be able to monitor the revenue and expenditure of the budget at first once a week and then on a daily basis. Then, a budget office was introduced in co-operation with the Finance Committee. So, what I'm saying is that there's a mosaic coming together, that there's more control in both legislative and executive, which is very important. The news is that the finance sector under the new law will have the possibility of longer planning for three years. From the finance sector, I expect more accurate information on how to cut costs. The paper is also the formation of a special brigade in Belgrade's territory with the aim of discharging the gendarmes. I think, under the proposal of this new law, there is a special challenge for police rationalization. How is it implemented, let's say and executed in towns with fewer inhabitants, and the police remain in the same number. Then, streamlining through unit mergers, no more units need to do the same work. It is known that several special units have so far been the result of certain political compromises and pressures. It's a good thing you've managed to cut it off, it's been a long-standing problem, and I'd like to commend the fact that you've managed to put an end to that kind of police organization so far. In the MUP, I especially recognize the activities of the Department of Human Resources. I'd like to isolate the planning of the human resources sector. It's very important for me that planning goes in such a good strategic direction that, say, every year, we determine the exact number of students who will study at the police academy and then these people are employed. I think that kind of planning should also be introduced at national level. Then, employee records, personnel planning. The system of career advancement is clearly defined. We've had cases so far that if you wanted to get someone out of a place because of the bad results in the police force, you couldn't do it because of the high rank of that person, but you had to actually advance him so he wouldn't be in that position anymore. This bill provides the opportunity to work properly and only properly, so that everyone will be commended for their work, or consequences for their unhappiness. Also, for each new act, there must be adequate education, years of internship, completed vocational training and an appropriate annual evaluation. Of course, it won't be possible from the rank of sergeant and sergeant to become a colonel or general in three or four years, which in some cases has happened before. The issue of police education, a very important issue from the point of view of improving police work, especially for police officers with secondary education. It is known to me as a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs that there are one-year courses for police officers who certainly give results, but I would ask you to present me with the suggestions you plan to make regarding police education. Of course, the new sector and international relations are very important because of Chapter 24 relating to justice, freedom and security. The interior ministry has signed many international multilateral and bilateral agreements, and this sector will take care of their implementation, as it will allow for a easier, faster and more efficient way of keeping it going with international activities of the MUP. During the consultations we had mentioned, I want to say that because of the citizens of Serbia, the donation of the Swedish government of nine million euros is an example of how to improve the capacity of the MUP without costing citizens from the budget. The bill also accurately defined the right to strike. As you said, the most liberal model of strike rights and union action has been accepted, because it is not the same when the police strike and the catastrophe strike. The law defines certain conditions for minimum work. I'm only interested in how these 60% fill-ins were defined, strike employment, or police fill-up, police administration due to strike rights? So far, the problem of not completing the initiated process of disciplinary responsibility has been that the new law clearly defines itself. Many of my previous colleagues spoke of these urgent measures of protection. And you answered that question. I must say when it comes to violence that all research shows that citizens and citizens of Serbia, when it comes to fighting violence, have the highest confidence in the police of the Republic of Serbia. This is no accident at all, and if the women's autonomous centre and many of my colleagues and colleagues who spoke earlier suggested that police officers should have urgent protection measures under the Police Act, or that police officers have the authority to throw a bully out of the house for 15 days. You answered that question very clearly. We'd be violating constitutional authority. We really can't do that. Somewhere I agree that we can talk about this again, if there's any need. We'll monitor the situation, but I also agree that other measures need to be stepped up. For example, introduce a sauce phone in Serbia's territory, then improve institutional co-operation, co-operation of institutions such as the Social Labour Centre, the MUP, schools. Strengthen the laws against violence, which is also our obligation under the Istanbul Convention. The previous law also leaves the auxiliary police, acts in emergency situations, separates the Emergency Sector, and at the end of this presentation on the Police Act, I must say that as a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I regularly follow the reports that you also regularly submit to the Committee. I'm comparing the previous data to the next one, and I notice that 4.5% of the more enlightened crimes in the police are, by almost 10%, reduced crime compared to the previous years. Perhaps the figures are not the most important or as the prime minister said a few days ago – the elections are not just mathematics, but I think the figures are very important to monitor the efficiency or ineffectiveness of the work of a ministry or some sector. This bill for me represents the decision of your minister as the most responsible in the ministry, but of course your associates to increase the efficiency of the police, to improve the work of the police. I'm sure if this law is passed we'll make it possible. I'd like to have a sublegal act when we discuss this law. I know that it has already been done to you as a longtime MP and president of parliament in the last term, I should not speak nor remind you how important sublegal acts are. I believe you'll bring them in within the legal time limit. As for the proposal for a law on public gathering, I think this law provides the right to a free gathering, but it must not be such as to restrict the freedoms of others. It is provided for a spontaneous gathering that there is no obligation to report together, but is only important to meet the conditions of spontaneousity. The paper is that no more closed gatherings are reported but that organisers have an obligation to take care of the security of citizens and participants together. It is good that the proposal for this law assumes both the responsibility and the obligation for a meeting that is initiated. The fact is, the movement gatherings will be able to stop in front of any point in the traffic risk. Certainly the most, without jeopardizing traffic, and will certainly favor the celebrations of the success of our athletes in the squares. The law is also in line with regional standards. A proposal has been accepted by many from the civil sector that at least 20 members are allowed for a public meeting, and this has come to the meeting, I will use the word only to smaller groups. The proposal for a law on public order and peace sets out more seriously and comprehensively all relevant concepts and infringements of public order and peace. The newspaper in this law is that trampling is no longer a violation of the new law's proposal, but that's why children and minors are subject to stricter penalties, which is good. Also, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group has been diligently considering these laws, submitted a number of amendments to the Police Law. As a parliamentary group, we have the largest number of amendments adopted, right on security, defence and police laws. I am sure that, as you have so far, you will carefully consider our amendments, but all others, all MPs. At the end of my presentation, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support all three draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46330	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representative of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, who is following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. We're moving on with our work. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46331	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Ms. Jana, you've been here a long time, our secretary and you've been missing, so that you know the other co-workers from the House of Ministers, on behalf of the MP's group of PAPS, I will say that we will accept this set of laws that lies ahead of us, the Law on Police, the Law on Public Order and Peace, and the Law on Public Assembly. What I'd like to point out is that all these laws are proposed by people, and it's very important who implements these laws. We hope that we have serious people in front of us, that this business has been approached very seriously, and that I would like to point out, which I will point out on behalf of the parliamentary group, is that, in addition to the knowledge, will and cooperation you have had with all the relevant institutions, it was necessary and the courage to approach one fundamental police reorganisation. I think the police have been taboo for years in our midst, and I think this separation that is now being conducted, that is, the separation of police officers and domestic officials, or state officials, is of great importance. What was among other courage was the appointment of Mr. Rebic as acting Director of Police. A man has come to the head of the police who is from a whole other sector, unburdened by various drawers, various political relations, which with tycoons, which with members of different authorities, and I think you will have a lot of success in your work, which I do, of course, wish you. It's one of the messages that seems to be sent to me by the current minister. I think it's necessary for the police to carry out their responsibilities. That's the essence of the change that's been made here. The essence of finally establishing a real and optimal number of employees to work there. It's not easy. A lot of them will be a technological surplus, but it's definitely necessary for everyone to have a truly justified place. I think in Serbia the only thing that is not forgiven is success, and what is difficult to accept are reforms. We from the PUPS parliamentary group know this best, we know that last year 2015 passed in financial consolidation and that much courage was needed to accept the short-term measures, which the prime minister proposed and which we recognised, as a party of the United Pensioners of Serbia, supported and eventually turned out to be right and we got the result of this financial consolidation, the halting of the finances and the final slight increase in pensions. So I think that even now here with this law you will find obstacles, but just as we have come across the lack of understanding of other parties, who have been looking forward to the opportunity to challenge us a little bit, how we were able to support our position at the time, or the Prime Minister's proposal, so I think that you will now face obstacles, but that should not prevent you from continuing to do what you started and I think it is of great importance and that career advancement that you have introduced and these internal competitions. I will just tell you that our president of the Milan Krkobibic parliamentary group, is headed by the "Post of Serbia", and that is exactly where this principle has been simply checked. We have called an internal competition in which more than 700 people appeared last year, and it would have been more so if they had truly realized that it was a serious competition with the rules of the game, without setting up, and we really got a lot of people from Serbia, who showed extra-series, named to the places for which they competed and, of course, after the end of these three months, we have great results, which means that you, throughout Serbia, surely have in your individual units, a lot of better people who just haven't recognized or had a chance. Now by following their careers and introducing strict rules of the game, it simply gives everyone a chance to show what they know and what they can do. What I'd look back on for a very short time is these new means of coercion that you've now introduced, and I think it's the right thing to do, and these gas sprayers and these electric shockers, the tasers, as they're already called, because when you have scary images of the conflict in the stadiums, not to mention torches, I think we're going to be able to clear up what needs to be cleared up with these electrical devices. Much less damage, no matter how many rumors there are now, whether it's right or not, but it's much easier than pulling out guns, than having truly tragic consequences, and perhaps yet caused by some completely negligible incident situations. I would also like to refer to efficiency, or more effectively to the police when it comes to domestic violence. We're all talking about it, today all my colleagues were talking about, I'll just as easily as they support it. I will draw attention that at one point in the period when we were in the city and when we were dealing with social policy, our President Milan Krkobiæ signed a protocol on co-operation with Mrs Stanojevic. We tried to find some solution precisely for those women, victims of violence, who were forced to leave their apartments, their houses and leave with children. Then we introduced one-year-old help for them and each of their children, to allow them to do so for a year, until something is settled legally, so that they can survive and manage. I think it's the right thing for the police to get involved earlier, to avoid these terrible victims we had last year, if I'm not cheating on 36 women, and I think that really when some law comes from the judiciary that we should all support them together. I'll look back on the Law of Public Order and Peace. I think it's the municipal police, which is local self-government, but I think it should be a little different now, and I think they're just suggesting that there should be a little less of them on the bus, and I think it's a little bit more on the ground. Buses should be left to a public enterprise, so let the extra employees, that is, the optimal part that she had, hires them to be the controllers, who pays, who doesn't pay for the transport, because simply the communals don't go to charge for parking or heating, electricity and all the other utility services we have. I think maybe we can move them out of that part a little bit, and that's about what I wanted to say on behalf of our parliamentary group. I think we're on the right track, that reforms are always difficult and painful, but that just once it had to go with them. We're all on our way together, and I think that's the way we should continue. Of course, our parliamentary group will support, of course, that the oldest citizens have always been there to bear everything they need to bear, so that they will also be of great help to all that awaits us in the future. So much for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46332	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46333	I thank the chairman. Mr Minister of the Interior with Associates, at the beginning of my presentation, I would first refer to the LSV's presentation and strongly condemn the idea of forming the Vojvodina Police Department, as they say and I believe it is a return in the 1990s, and I will remind you of the sentence of President LSV, Nenada Canka, spoken in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 25 March 1998, quote – do not be surprised if you are welcomed by the ramp on Gazela. By introducing the duchy police and by choosing the so-called The secretary, the Ministry of the Duchy Police, in a political way, and we can really get into a situation where there's a ramp on Gazela at some point with the border police on it. With this, we support your position and fully support your position that only the police of Serbia exist and that the Vojvodina police will never exist. But let's start on a more serious subject, which is the Police Act. The interior ministry is one of the few bodies that has existed since the formation of the first modern Serbian state. So, i.e. the formation of the first Governing Council, January 1811, headed by the first guardian of the internal works, Jakov Nenadovic. The list of interior ministers is long, impressive both by the number of persons headed by this ministry and by the names themselves, and these are primarily mentioned by Jakov Nenadovic, Ilija Garasanin, Jevrem Grujic, Acim Cumić, Stojan Protic, Milentije Popovic, Slobodan Penezić Krcun and many others who represent the great honor of leading this ministry, but also of great responsibility. The ministry's competencies have changed over the past 205 years depending on social circumstances and state needs, as it is today. Once upon a time, the MUP was all those jobs that didn't belong to foreign affairs. Therefore, the existing Police Act was passed in 2005, and following a number of amendments and additions to this law, it is time to pass a new Law on Police, in line with today's state needs and social circumstances, which primarily refers to the EU accession process and the negotiations that follow. To remind you, this is known to everyone, the MUP is in charge of the negotiation process for chapter 24 of justice, freedom and security and to a significant extent included in Chapter 23 of the judiciary, human and minority rights led by the Ministry of Justice, as well as in many other chapters. In addition, the new law should allow for more efficient, more professional police work so that police can deal with different, so to speak, new forms of crime, as well as the means and modern technology used by persons who want to commit a crime. In addition, since the adoption of the existing Law on Police, many regulations and new institutes have been introduced, as stated in the light of this law, which are primarily the Law on the Organisation of Courts, the Law on Crimes, the Law on Minority Crimes and Criminal Protection of Juvenile Persons and Others, as well as recommendations by the Protectors of Citizens and Commissioners for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data have been adopted. That is why the law also amends existing provisions on police powers, police progress, staff planning, jurisdiction and organisation of the MUP, security checks, means of coercion, internal police control and others. But let's take it in a row. Therefore, unlike the law so far which only treated police officers, and by dividing them into uniform and non-unformed persons who apply police powers, i.e. authorised officials and employees of special and certain duties, this law provides for the division of police officers, civil servants and tenants. The law provides for the division of police officers to authorised officials and special duties employees, who perform police duties, while civil servants and deputies are not performing police work, but are supporting the work of police and police officers, primarily in performing their jobs and this technical support. We must not forget that the Ministry must provide the Police Directorate with uninterrupted working conditions, as shown by the jurisdiction of this ministry and by this law provided for in Article 11, as well as by Article 12 of this Law, where it is said that the Ministry provides assumptions about operational independence and organisational assumptions for police work. Almost all other sectors in the ministry, such as the finance sector, the analysis and telecommunications sector, the sector for international co-operation and European affairs and planning and forming after the latest changes and additions to the Law on Police, as well as the human resources sector, should provide conditions for police work. In this way, dividing police officers, civil servants and furniture officers in the MUP is a much more precise division of work, allowing police to support their tasks. Consistency with EU legal regulations also involves the definition of a police-intelligence model, which is contained in EU recommendations, and this law is regulated in Article 34. This model is a modern way of handling police, but primarily criminal police, all for the purpose of reducing crime. This is what puts it into focus on the perpetrator of the crime, not on the crime committed itself, based on the operational data collected by the police. In this way, the resources of the police are much more effective, not only in detecting the perpetrators of the crime, but also in preventing the execution of them. This model appeared for the first time at the end of the 1990s in Great Britain and since it proved to be an effective way of curbing, i.e. the detection of criminal offences, applied in other EU member states as well. This is one of the indicators that the EU is not its own goal to Serbia, but also improves citizens' lives by accepting European standards. In this case, this refers to the reduction of criminality and the deterrence of potential perpetrators to commit these crimes. Any opposition to such solutions is not only demagogue and hypocrisy, but to play with the safety of citizens, because why not accept everything that can lead to better living conditions, and as we all know, security is in the first place. A secure environment creates between other conditions for new investments that bring new jobs and ultimately improve citizens' lives. The National Criminal and Technical Centre, namely the NKTC, is an extremely important organisational unit within the criminal police administration, where a large number of perpetrators of crime are discovered, using the most modern forensic equipment. The NKTC conducts analysis and processing of DNA collected during an insight, ballistic analysis of the projectiles, traces of the site's face, etc. With this in mind, it was also necessary to introduce new police powers in order to shape this area. That is why the law provides for police officers to apply criminal and forensic registration measures, taking other samples and criminal and forensic skills and analysis. The new police law that we are discussing today, in one general way, regulates this area, so it is necessary to pass a special law that will regulate this complex area more precisely, so that these data collected can be stored in this way. When we look at the broader context and we attach this area to a new provision that I have already commented on, and it concerns the police-intelligence model, we come to the conclusion that in the coming period the work of the Criminal Police Administration will be significantly improved, and so will the police in general. The task of the MUP is to propose, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt all legal solutions that will allow the police to exercise their powers more effectively. Also, the ministry is obliged to provide all technical conditions to the police for its work, such as technique, equipment, people, etc., and as far as the National Criminal Technical Centre is concerned, it belongs to one of the most equipped centres not only in the region but also beyond, and it is up to us to enable them to do their job as they like. Article 5 The law on weapons and ammunition, adopted last year, has allowed citizens to purchase and hold electric shocks. So the question is, why can't the police use electroshocks as a means of coercion, if it's effective? It has been effectively demonstrated in the EU countries, where it is an integral part of police equipment in all Member States, and it is necessary to comply with EU rules. Not only that, this is how you modernize and better equip police officers on the ground. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, that some of your predecessors, and already mentioned here, great reformers, such as Dusan Mihajlovic, have equipped their police with a zip with lighters and Swiss knives, and that police are now equipped with means that can prevent the execution of crimes and protect the police officers themselves. That's why I support it by Article 105. Bills of police laws add new means of coercion, and these are electromagnetic assets. Chapter VIII of this Police Law proposal refers to human resources, an extremely important and important area. This bill also envisions the possibility of forming a new sector, a sector for human resources. So far, human resources have been part of the interior finance sector despite this administration, including the Food and Accommodation Administration, the Joint Affairs Administration and other organisational units. Also, within this sector, there was a police training centre. The co-ordination between the Human Resources Administration and the Basic Police Training Centre was particularly difficult because the finance sector was engaged in other affairs than human resources. In this way, that is, these changes allow the entire system of human resources to deal exclusively with what the purpose of its existence is. This law allows career progress in the Ministry of the Interior, better planning of personnel, competition for working relationship, but first of all security checks are regulated. Security checks on the existing law were regulated, but now they are both precise and divided into three levels depending on the type of work. The first level refers to candidates who applied to work at the MUP and the members of the Centre for Fundamental Police Training, then the second degree for mid-level managers and the third degree for appointed persons, persons in position and high-level executives and elders. Now the law also regulates that security checks can be requested from other security services, which has been the case so far, but since this time it is precise and determined which jobs such checks are required for. The advantage of this law is also the introduction of the obligation to periodically check employees in the framework of the MUP. It will no longer be possible for employees to check for safety only when they start working relationships, and after they start working relationships to do what they want without having any consequences. I must point out that the law states that the working relationship will stop the person, as said in Article 172 of this law, which has ceased to meet the conditions applicable to reception. In order to establish this, it is necessary to carry out periodic security checks, as this is among other things a condition for admission to labour in the MUP. Another extremely significant change is the employment contest in the MUP, which will raise the quality level of people who are being admitted to employment. I'm not going to say that those who are already employed aren't good quality, but every kind of competition leads to better selection of personnel. Career advancement is a newspaper that also allows for the efficiency of employees in the MUP by estimating work and quality in progress. Tests will be conducted and staff evaluations will be carried out and their careers monitored. In this way, one who has success in the work, say, a large number of solved crimes, will have the opportunity to deploy to other, better jobs, or progress in the ministry, but also, and to move to another, lower workplace unless it meets expectations and fulfils its tasks. Making the human resources sector significantly improves the human formation process, leading to cost reduction and human rationalisation. The sector, which is also supporting police, will be able to work more effectively with the Centre for Fundamental Police Training and the Criminal and Police Academy, which is also planning years ahead of the number of police officers and elders who will be educated and who needs the ministry. This kind of schooling is closely specialized, so those who finish the Criminal and Police Academy or train at the Centre for Fundamental Police Training can mostly get jobs only in the police department. If we take into account the earlier signing of contracts with students of the Criminal and Police Academy on compulsory admission to the MUP after schooling, we have come to the situation that those who have completed the KPA sign their consent to work with medium professional training at the MUP, because they cannot be employed in a job with high professional training. After a certain time, they send job tracking requirements with professional equipment and thus the MUP receives a large number of executive, or senior staff at the expense of police officers with medium professional training and thus we come to a situation where police officers are missing on the ground. Good human planning avoids this problem and reduces the costs that are created in this way. Also, the XI head refers to police control. As far as the Internal Affairs Sector is concerned, this law gives him greater authority. In fact, it is possible for internal control, alongside members of the Directorate of Police, to now control the work of employees in the entire ministry. This increases the possibility of detecting criminal acts of employees in the MUP, and beyond the Police Directorate, as well as those carried out by police officers in co-execution with other employees within the MUP. What needs to be done in the next period is an increase in the capacity of the internal control sector, as the number of employees in the SUP was not enough even when the sector only controlled the police, let alone now when it will exercise control over the entire ministry. The conditions for entry into this sector are stricter than for any other organisation unit in the ministry, which is understandable, but it may be a solution to alleviating these conditions, not to the expense of quality, for example, to introduce some types of additional training of police officers, and to reduce the years of employment carried out in police. Introducing integrity tests is also important for reducing corruption in the MUP. In this way, it is seen whether someone is prone to corruption by simulation of the real situation is identical to the work activities tested. Then, in co-operation with the Anti-Corruption Agency, the sector is carrying out a risk analysis, which will counter corruption in the ministry. A very important item is the introduction of a mandatory property map for ministry managers, which will have to report any change in their assets that must be in line with their incomes, not that property is increasing without real foundation. The adoption of the Police Act requires the adoption or adaptation of a large number of sublegal acts, such as The rules on how to perform internal affairs, the systematization rule, the regulation on the application of measures and actions in criminal and forensic registration, the taking of other samples, the criminal and technical and forensic skills and analysis, the rules on how to apply police powers, etc. There's a lot of them. On this occasion, I would ask you to immediately approach the adoption or amendment of existing sublaws after the law has been passed, so that there is no malicious and arbitrary interpretation of the provisions of this law and that the law can be fully applied. At the very end of my presentation on this law, I would return to the very beginning of the law and to Article 7 which regulates the use of natively sensitive language, where it is said, quote – all terms in this law have the same birthmark regardless of whether they are used in male or female, and apply equally to male and female. I consider this, Mr. Minister, a civilizational liquid and since this is one of the first laws, it seems to me, after the Law on the Budgetary System, which introduces a gender-sensitive language, I congratulate you on that. Thanks to the consultations you had on several occasions both with the MPs of the opposition and with the MPs, where many of the doubts have been clarified, the SPS has decided not to propose any amendments to this law, but will vote fully for it as the government has proposed. Also, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I underline that our parliamentary group will also vote in favour of the draft law on public gathering and the draft law on public order and peace, which will be discussed by my fellow MPs of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46334	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46335	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, fellow MPs, laws that are before us today, these three laws, will indeed make it significant and refreshing, but what is more important, and strengthens, the whole legal framework under which police in Serbia are acting. So what is most important to us as legislators, or the Serbian government, is that the police of Serbia be more efficient, but that the integrity of the police is strengthened. That's what was criticised most in the previous period. The experts involved in research on this subject, as well as citizens in daily contact, also pointed out. It's something we have to work on. These three laws will significantly improve this legal framework and then we can talk more seriously about police integrity in Serbia. It will certainly be the only way for police to offer a more adequate response to threats that are possible for both people's safety and for the security of property in Serbia. First, I'll talk about the Police Act. All three laws have passed a public debate and this is extremely important. All MPs in today's discussions insist on it and it is good that the whole public, taking both experts and representatives of the state authorities, both the unions and the media and all the interested parts of the public, can give their judgment on draft laws at one time, and now through our parliamentary work and on the draft laws. The public debate thus began in March 2015, it took place in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, when I talk about the Police Act. Like I said, there were a number of public interests, not to repeat now. What I didn't say was international organizations. It's very important for me to hear it, to let the citizens know about it. This is not the product of some small task force in the MUP. This has also been said in the previous year by the international public, i.e. experts in this area, as well as factors in our society. The OSCE has been working parallelly and commenting on the draft of this law. I will tell you that three days ago, as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I received an OSCE delegation containing an independent expert, who actually worked all the time for some kind of evaluation, or commentary, evaluations on this bill. This is Mr. Mauricio Lustro, whom the OSCE has hired and he has indeed positively assessed this bill, suggesting that a large percentage of the objections, which the OSCE has just given, is respected. I will tell you that in July 2015, so six months ago, in the Serbian Parliament, we presented the draft law at the time, that the public was very interested and that just a large number of objections were inserted into this bill. That's what we have to insist on, that people need to know, that a lot of suggestions has been put in here. There is no law in the world that is perfect and that someone will have no objection, but such a compromise, a comprehensive solution is indeed the result of long-term work. This will be agreed by a number of NGOs that are seriously involved in the security sector and legal solutions. It is very important that I point out that this adoption of the Law on the Police we are actually completing one of our activities in the negotiating process. This will enable us to adequately respond to the needs during the negotiations. These are familiar topics. It's migration, asylum and visas. This one's been moved half the time. The new Police Act allows us a more modern way of managing this security sector. Of course, time brings new challenges and some new threats, but also new expectations of citizens and the working group wrote this law with respect to developed European countries, as they organised the work in security services. The main objective of this law is, once again, to correct the efficiency of police work. In this law, I would single out three accentes, actually organisational structure, career advancement, employee control. We can talk about the organisational structure of different segments and it is good for citizens to hear it. We've got three kinds of officers, if I've put it right, a state and police officer and a tenant. So, the tenants will be the people who will help with the technical affairs. This kind of organization will allow more professionalization in the police. That's what you could hear all the time. Any objections to the organisational structure will be resolved by additional sublegal acts, the adoption of a regulation in the principles of internal arrangements on the types of organisational units, seats and areas for which the units are educated and the minister, with the agreement of the Government, will adopt a regulation on this internal arrangement and the systematisation of jobs in the MUP. What is very interesting is that there will be greater transparency in police work, greater openness, greater co-operation with citizens, especially with the local community, with state authorities, with security services, but it is also very important international co-operation. It has been achieved through special agreements so far, but it is important to define it through this law as well. It is designed to establish electronic administrations, different services for citizens. This is very important when we talk about the openness of the police and insist on the work of the police in the community that involves a new form of police work. It will be a preventive form of work, because I think we all have to work in the next period of prevention, not just sanctioning crimes and crimes. This law has specifically defined police measures and actions. It is very important that police affairs are updated over time and that European standards enter our regulations and now some new kinds of jobs are being done in a completely different way. Standardization, and so on, is being introduced into all procedures. New means of coercion are being introduced. That's what the media said. I'm particularly positive about that, and these are also the attitudes of police unions and experts dealing with this sector. Introduces so-called. pepper spray and electroshocker, i.e. electromagnetic or shock bats. The police will be able to stop or disable the current, conditionally said, thugs without causing serious physical harm. That used to be the case when they used firearms, and at the same time the cops would protect themselves in this way. New rank and calling, that's what we could hear today. All that remains is the C.I.A., as the only special unit. Special units: The gendarmes, the Helicopter Unit and the Unit for the Security of Certain Persons and Objects and the Police Brigade only at the Belgrade Police Administration. So much for organization. Career advances are really well spoken of, the media are particularly interested in this because progress in the police has often been under question. This time, the criteria, the way, the time limit and everything that is necessary to make progress are precisely defined. This time, the boss won't do it by reputation for the beauty of your eyes or the intimacy with the one who's supposed to be rewarded. It is precisely prescribed what degree of training, what results, what achievements are needed to make someone progress in their career. Valuation, assessment will take place annually, and the dynamics of the evaluation will largely depend on the position and on the degree for which a member of the MUP is running for the future. In order for citizens to understand the seriousness and systematicity of the efforts to introduce career progress, it should be said that the creation of a sector for human resources is under way. Although negative criticism could be heard today at the expense of the sector, it absolutely does not stand. The Human Resources Sector will monitor employees from the moment they start a relationship at the Ministry, throughout the ministry movement, until the end of the working century. Summing up all these results, given all the assessments, all the achievements of the MUP members, you will be much more accurate than it has ever been to assess whether anyone can be promoted or not, and it will be much more transparent, it will be a kind of incentive, fair play and for other colleagues. Control of employee work, very important, strengthening the internal control sector is something that was necessary for many years back. We have heard many remarks in the previous period and this time the control of the work of employees, through the Internal Control Sector, introduces two interesting instruments that have been positively assessed. It is an integrity test and it is property records, i.e. depositing property records. A integrity test to check all employees in the MUP, especially the elders, which has not been the case so far. It's a method that will be able to expose corruption, corrupt behavior of officials. The conditions and methods of applying these integrity tests will be prescribed by sublegal acts. When it comes to the integrity test, as a term, as a definition, it's extremely acceptable. Its implementation, implementation on the ground is something we should pay attention to and therefore are very important sublegal acts that will define this. No one says, no country in the world, no one has fought corruption completely, but we have to introduce instruments, we have to change the way we think, we have to accept new patterns of behavior. Property cards, i.e. depositing of property records, are important because they can indicate major changes in the property of members of the MUP and, of course, no one is unrealistic, of course, that abuses and concealment are possible, but the process of raising integrity and level of trust in the police are really long-term processes. These are processes and changes in mentality and behaviour and members of the MUP, as well as citizens who evaluate the work of the MUP in daily contact. A little talk today about the auxiliary police, it is formed for cases where a large number of police officers need to be compensated for tasks of high-security risk, let's say both natural and other accidents, in providing the state border and similar opportunities. And what I want to stress, therefore, is that we have a period of one year, or a task force in the MUP, to prepare sublegal acts, so one year from the entry into force of these laws. Two more laws. The law on public gathering and the law on public order and peace. The law on public gathering we could hear, the Constitutional Court declared in April 2015 unconstitutional. The legal vacuum was created since October, and that is exactly what has accelerated the process of making a new proposal that today, following the published draft of the law, followed by a natural public debate in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, is also very important for the same non-governmental sector to be involved, independent regulatory bodies, international organisations, other state bodies representing local self-government. And the text, this proposal for a public gathering, has also respected most of the objections of public debate participants. And these two laws we also represented in parliament at these informal consultations thanks to both the good will of MPs and also good co-operation with the MUP. I suppose this is due to the fact that Minister Stefanovic was once also the speaker of parliament and that he understands how complicated the process of passing the law is and that it is very important that we keep in touch with each other constantly and correct each other's objections and demands. It's that story about the ongoing dialogue. counterpart Comic likes to open the topic, dialogue is unusually important, thanks for insisting on it during the parliamentary discussion. In view of the opening of the negotiations in Chapter 23, the adoption of the public gathering law concludes one of the activities foreseen in the action plan for Chapter 23. One of the questions in that chapter is freedom of assembly, I also mean that experts from the Venice Commission have been consulted in determining the final draft of the law. And something else that might be interesting for citizens to see what the amount of social events are, gatherings, gatherings, actually what we regulate. In the past six years, between 2010 and 2015, some 61,000 public gatherings were held annually on average, which means about 5,000 meetings a month. 80% of that is sports character. So in the past six years, 364 thousand meetings. All of this needs to be ensured by multiplying the number of people, it's hard to find a number of figures, but you can see that you need to regulate the safety of people and property. What is yet to be expected in the next period is normal for both activities and manifestations. That is why it is not clear to me, but we will also talk in the work when we talk about details, which is why such resistance to a solution that is so well done by the reputation of the countries of Europe, which have done so long before us and which force us to this kind of law during European negotiations. I want to say that it is very difficult for you to respect the request for a free and democratic gathering with as few restrictions as possible for the participants and the organisers of the gathering, while at the same time guaranteeing the safety of the citizens and the assets and those of the participants themselves, as well as those of the citizens outside the gathering, who do not participate in these events. We moved time together compared to what was in the original proposal and it was done on the suggestion of experts from this sector and the NGO sector. In accordance with the agreement of the local self-government, we'll define the so-called so-called. forbidden places where the gathering is restricted. That is very important, we will also hear during the debate on amendments what is the essence of the agreement with local self-government. It is very important that the law on public order and peace have been defined in this form. For the last 23 years, we've had minimal changes, time has made us opportunities, new challenges, new threats to define it this way. That is why we have introduced some new concepts, and when it comes to sanctioning these violations, a way of collecting voluntary contributions, very important, but we will talk about it in the debate on amendments. The information I have at this point is that about 500 amendments have been submitted to these three draft laws so far. Of course, here's to entertain viewers a large number is said to be deleted, and I'd like to see something deleted as well as what it's supposed to look like. I think citizens vote for a solution and not just for erasing, because when the erasure is done, what happens next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46336	Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we continue to work towards applications for the word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46337	Dear Ministers with their team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, colleague Obradovic is absolutely right when he says that you have this expressed sensitivity for dialogue, for the need for a constant conversation and for those who think alike or the same as you, but also for those who think quite differently. These three bill proposals are the product of a dialogue that lasted more than a year, and I will focus on police law, especially on two aspects of the law, as part of my speech. This is one introduction of a brand-new governance model in state institutions, i.e. into a large system where the number of employees is concerned, about 36,000 people as I am informed, a rather complex system such as the MUP. Also a newspaper that concerns the development of social dialogue in the MUP where great results are really achieved, so you don't get the wrong idea here I see a serious and good seal of our former colleague, now State Secretary Jane Ljubicic, whom we remember here as one great professional and someone who has repeatedly advocated the issue of social dialogue and social justice and someone who has had equal access to all colleagues and colleagues regardless of which political party that belongs. When it comes to the professionalisation of the MUP and this new governance model that I was talking about, what is the key thing and what is the waterworks for the development of the MUP in the coming period is the introduction of a sector, i.e. a new human resource management unit, with all those activities that this complex process implies, starting with work analysis, human resources planning, recruitment, selection, management performance assessment, motivation, training, work relations training and social dialogue when it comes to involving employees in the decision-making process itself. It is good that you mentioned earlier in your opening statement that there are plenty of solutions that define this law on police, defined both through dialogue with trade unions and through their proposals, given their great experience on the ground and having experience in talking and working with their membership. In particular, I would like to highlight your liberal relationship with the union organisation and a fully commended relationship to the Convention and respect for Convention 87, Convention 98, International Labour Organisation and, of course, the European Social Charter, which constitutes a condition of son qua non, the development of relations, interpersonal relations and relations between administrations and employees in one institution, organisation or company. That can be considered very positive. For the first time, there is a strategy and a clear policy of human resources management, employee training and what is very important is not to be trained employees who are only specialised training for aspects and areas of security only, but will in the coming period mean a broader spectrum of knowledge, skills, which the MUP will achieve. Of course, like all other professions, in all other areas, people need more and more universal knowledge. The very fact that a new recruiting and selection system is being introduced tells us that through the implementation of this law it is definitely seeking to cross with one nepotism policy or once a negative selection that has ruled for many years or that I say for a decade, when it has sometimes led to the implementation of this law being inefficient, ineffective and that it does not produce those results that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from it as one of the main pillars of the functioning of the state system in each developed country, and of course in Serbia. I must especially point out that Serbia is the only country in Europe in which a special collective contract for police works, and that is precisely the result that is defined in a constant dialogue with police employees, which aims to reach the best possible solutions and to maximum police functioning and to define a clear, good and quality, security policy, which is ultimately, and a condition for good economic policy, and a condition for overall overall economic and social development. When we had a meeting last week that was informal with you and with the representatives of the MUP, you also mentioned the potential opening of a scientific institute, co-operation with other scientific institutes, with other universities, and there is very important that a single combination of theories and practices be reached within the MUP. It is good that you have this initiative to include people who are involved in the theory, which deals with crime research, within every kind of security, so that, of course, this theory and practice translates into the best solutions and into the best practice that the MUP has, and, of course, as the ultimate goal, in order to overcome what is a high percentage of the safety of our citizens and the maximum reduction of the crime rate. You can see a serious management approach to management of the MUP itself, where you define both the strategic level, and the high level, and the middle level, and the operational level of governance, which is defined in accordance with the best possible practice of large world corporations or organisations operating in accordance with the best policies and management principles that exist today. Career advancement is the key, it is the core of this law, and we will finally have clear parameters that members, or police officers, will be able to advance, and this is where the system of equal opportunities is introduced, a system that implies that only the best, most capable, most valuable, those who give the greatest results can make progress. They will not be able to improve either the minister himself, and thus you have taken away your powers, but you have given one new energy to the MUP, to employ those who are the most popular, who are the best, who have completed the best schools and who can contribute to the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Rarely, if I didn't speak, the minister would give up such a kind of intelligence, an instrument that he could hire and that he could use it to position himself, of course, in the best possible way. But in the end, we in Parliament fully support it, when it comes to government work, you want us to also want to subdue private interests, we want to subdue the interests of individuals to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the interests of state institutions. I'm going to quote Aristotle now, he said a long time ago that all people should pursue good, but that the state should seek the greatest good, so in accordance with that I think we'll introduce, and that such policy and such principle will be implemented in the MUP itself. When it comes to social dialogue, one of the most important, one of the most important, significant human rights, i.e. the rights of employees, is defined as the right to strike. Finally, the right to strike is defined in accordance with clear conditions and clear parameters, because if there are no clear relationships, if there are no clear rules, which you have introduced here under this bill, which define the employment criteria, how can we have the result and how can we have a peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which the law itself deals with, and always says that the priority of the MUP will try to resolve each individual or collective work dispute peacefully? But if there's a strike, we'll have clearly defined conditions, we'll know who'll be able to strike, how, in what way, how long it'll take. Although, I mentioned earlier, you're a very liberal minister, since you have over 15 unions, and only two big... (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from town: 20. Twenty-six already? I'm not well informed. Thank you. As far as I have information, all these unions, and if they're unrepresentative, of 26, even 24, are not representative, they have all the possibilities and all the working conditions as if they were representative. There is no such thing in any developed EU country, neither in the United States. So, the approach is quite liberal and this is how it comes to seeing the desire, to see the intensity of the ministry itself and you as a minister that you want this dialogue and that you want everyone to provide the same conditions for their union organization, for association, for union work, and of course what is the main role of the union, which is collective bargaining and fighting for better conditions, for greater opportunities for employees within a particular area, and this is the area of security, i.e. the MUP, where I say that a lot has been done after so many years when the conditions of work, new uniforms have been obtained, new training has been obtained, the creation of a special unit within the Human Resources Unit that will be tasked with only to co-operate with union organisations and to develop this cooperation, and here we come to what is the essence of the proposal of this law. It is that we have one minimum consensus between those who manage the ministry and those who are employed so that the ministry can develop further and to record even better results than it has recorded so far. We had a chance to hear from other colleagues what the results were. There were a lot of them, especially when it comes to uncompromising and unspeakable struggles... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46338	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46339	... against organized crime and corruption. Thank you. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46340	Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46341	Thank you, the esteemed former President of Parliament. Fellow former MPs, former ministers, former associates, this law is bad, of course, and it starts with a name. The name is the Police Act, and the law is clearly engaged in a much wider spectrum than the police themselves. He's working on relations in the ministry. Therefore, it should probably be called the Internal Affairs Act. Uncertainty of norms is another flaw, but the greatest flaw is too much authority of a minister, any minister, of course, whoever it is to enforce this law. It's not good, it's politicizing. The minister here rises to a level of vizier that can practically, except, to make a joke on the first wedding night, to do everything else in this police department, which is not a good thing. The external control of police work has thrown out this law of the Protector of Citizens, which is not a good solution, and there is also the willingness of security checks. In Article 142, we have the reception of new employees of the ministry and, imagine what, a polygraph interrogation. This supreme insignation of this authority – a polygraph, which determines good, evil, black, white and fair and unfair, has found its place in this law as well. Of course, there is no place anywhere in any serious process regarding security, discipline, or anything like that. In Article 49, general standards relating to identity data are violated. Article 172 introduces the practice that the initiation of a criminal procedure is sufficient reason for the termination of a working relationship, which, of course, deeply affects the principle that no one is guilty until the court makes such a decision. Finally, the most praised syntagm of this law is career advancement, as a new hocus-pocus that will solve all problems at least in police, if not wider in Serbia. There's an example of how it's usually done now, and it's obvious that it's going to continue, and that's the example of the secretary of the U.K.P.E. His name is Dijana Hrkalovic, 29 years old, came from out of nowhere to the police and became the most important person, I hope, after the minister, in the entire ministry. She arrests, arrests, listens, initiates investigations, closes investigations, and all of her 29 years old and calls the magistrate of psychology, which, you'll admit, isn't very directly related to police affairs. We have 37-38 amendments to this law, with the basic idea that this law should actually be withdrawn from the procedure and returned, when it stood for so long, to further completion and to adopt these objections. Of course, not only ours, I have made observations here, and the amendments will include the Guardians of Citizens and here the guest present from the gallery and some unions present at the Ministry. As for the Law of Public Order and Peace, I must commend one thing, which is Article 15. The Law on Public Order and Peace, which reads: “Whoever deals with return, prophesying fate, interpretation of dreams, or similar deception in a way that disturbs citizens or disturbs public order and peace, will be punished by fines of between 10 and 50 thousand dinars or by working in public interest from 40 to 120 hours. ” This is very good, and I think that the current, and already former Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic will be the first victim of this member, since he has obviously been involved for two or three years in return, prophesying fate, interpreting dreams and similar things that have nothing to do with the work of the Prime Minister, but rather in the factory of chips, high-speed stripes, the South Stream and many, many things that have a lot to do with the Law on Police, and that is going to make colleagues from across the street more aware of the more careful reading of this text. Therefore, I call on the former minister to resign, in fact, he no longer has to, it's already done, but to withdraw the law from the procedure. It would be fairer to leave it to his successor, someone who would be there after the election, to propose to the Assembly a new law on police.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46342	I didn't hear anything because you said you were a former MP and then it was like there was no one here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46343	It would be nice to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46344	Yes, I've turned off a microphone for an MP who no longer exists. That's how it turned out after your discussion, and we haven't heard anything about the law. I apologize to the MP, but I pretended to grant wishes and greet that no one here exists anymore, which is not true. But, joke aside, let the minister try to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46345	I've been listening to a lot of different discussions this morning, and some people have been trying to point out what can be fixed. However, despite responding to some of the objections where it is quite clear that they do not stand, of course they continue to appear in the debate, which is quite legitimate, I have no objection, but of course the citizens should know that the aim is to carry out political assessments and qualifications in order to collect points. Because when you say something to someone and they're reasoned that it doesn't stand, then just insisting and repeating is a political matter, not the goal of correcting or identifying certain facts. As far as the Police Act is concerned, the powers of the minister of this existing law, which is still current and valid, are enormous and it didn't bother anyone at the time. They've been huge since 2000, even before 2000, but since 2000, the minister's got really big powers here. One of the serious powers of authority is the conduct of a pre-criminal procedure. So the minister can order the police to conduct a pre-criminal procedure until the prosecutor is informed, and there are no deadlines when the prosecutor has to be informed. At this point, the minister may order the police to comply with this law and to conduct an investigation until the moment he assesses that he should inform the prosecutor. He can't possibly do that by this law. Therefore, the minister does not have any investigative possibility of a new law, it is done by the police in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and the prosecutor is conducting an investigation in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, of course, since October 2013 when these amendments took effect. Also, the minister had huge powers to place people, because you can make extraordinary improvements, for example by promoting people. As of today, the minister can advance 100, 200, 300, 500 people without any restrictions. The minister may provide an indication of their extraordinary improvement in the next act and thus affect their position in the MUP, or their installation in the hierarchical system of the MUP. The new law makes it impossible. So, by doing so, we show our intention to take away the minister's powers, not to give him greater authority. If we wanted to, the existing law gives you all the powers the minister can in the MUP, all of them. So the minister of the current law has the widest possible authority to carry out even pre-criminal proceedings. So he takes on the role of even the prosecutor in that regard. So absolute powers. The new law makes it impossible. Of course, this law doesn't talk about external ways of controlling the Ministry, because that's not what this law is about. The Civilian Protector and the Assembly Committee have their own laws to handle and which can control the work of the MUP whenever they want, and through reporting, and through emergency controls, and through coming to us. To put it that way, they can exercise control of how they like it and how it's prescribed by law. It even states in Article 221 that external labour control is carried out by the National Assembly, the Assembly of the Units of Regional Autonomy or the Units of Local Self-Government, the judicial authorities, the independent state authorities responsible for supervisory tasks and other authorised state authorities and bodies, citizens and the public, in accordance with the law. So we haven't worked it out, there are other laws that work it out, and there's no need to define it through the Police Act. So no one has been denied the ability to control, who has the right to do so in accordance with the law, but of course that doesn't mean that they have the data available. And since they're not even ministers, they can't even get data from the investigation. This can only be made available to the prosecutor and the prosecutor, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, to conduct an investigation, to find out the details of the investigation and to prepare the indictment, the indictment or any other solution that will be proposed by the court. So that's the law, that's how it works, and that's good solutions. What I have to say is that it bothered me that this is being abused, I have been a Parliamentarian long enough to tell you that it's not my place to talk as a minister, but since it's been our colleague Diana Hrkalovic, I have to say that it's ugly that a young girl, who is 29-30 years old, who is a MuP worker, and before that was a BIA worker, is getting through the mud, and there are qualifications about her life and work, without being able to answer here, because she is not a national MP and she can't speak in front of you. I must tell you that this is an extraordinary person, an exceptional worker, someone who has been assigned to the CAP secretary for three or four years in the security system, and the post of the secretary of the CAP is an administrative post in which the person in charge of the CAP is classifying the administrative documentation of the CAP and conducting international co-operation of the CAP. It's a terrible job, but I just don't see why it's such a fear of a 29-year-old girl. Apparently, it's a lot of trouble because she didn't break up, she wasn't in any kind of corruption affair. She did not take subsidies for vineyards, did not rob a hunter for Serbian citizens in different ways, and apparently it bothers her. I can tell you it's about a person who deserves respect and trust because he's fighting for this country. As for Alexander Vukic, as president of this government, he has done much for the citizens of Serbia. We've been fighting since day one to reduce the huge budget deficit, to reduce that sinkhole left for us, the country before bankruptcy. And, I'm glad, today we're talking about completely different topics, and I've noticed this phenomenon in society, and that's more important in politics. We are looking for more today because different conditions have been created thanks to the work of Alexander Vukic and the entire government. A different environment has been created in which people are now naturally looking for more. Until a few years ago, all they asked was to survive. They were happy if he didn't lose 10,000 people that day, but lost 6,000 people, it was considered a success of such governments. We're looking for a job more today and it's a change in people's perception, because people are satisfied with that work, they've achieved a higher standard and now they're naturally looking for more. Today is not enough for them what they had in 2012, because they lived in fear. There was no question at all how many thousands of people would lose their jobs, because 400,000 people remained from 2008 to 2012 and that should not be forgotten. All that remained was a question of where all these jobs would be lost. They were mostly lost in a private sector that supported the state, and then we didn't have enough money, they were taking credits at fabulous interest rates and destroying this system. That was more than clear. So our "Vojvodine Development Bank" fell apart, and so the "Metals" bank fell apart, so our funds went down, so our businesses collapsed, so the factories cut into old iron and sold, so the privatisations were carried out that people were left without bread, without anything. So, and this Aleksandar Vukic, he managed to stop Serbia's collapse. He managed to raise citizens' expectations with a good policy in which you today see a better future for our country. That's why I'm convinced he deserves trust, because he's doing his job. Because he's not planning on resting, he's planning on working. It is an important thing for all citizens of Serbia, and we will work at the MUP to consistently apply the law justifying trust. As far as employment is concerned, that's the only objection I make to explain to people, as far as employment conditions are concerned. For certain jobs, the law provides for a polygraph examination as it does, let's say, the FBI in America. I'm sure that the FBI in America is a small-time respected organization that doesn't know what it's doing, but we're going to have a reputation for them for certain jobs where the most difficult forms of corruption are predicted to predict the possibility of a polygraph investigation, that it can also be asked by the Director of Police, or by one of the police or prosecutors who conducts the investigation and wants to check on their team whether these people are completely correct and clean, whether they co-operate with criminal groups and whether or not they are leaks of information, and by law we also foresee a serious violation of official duty, leaks of classified information from the MUP that could leave them out of work, so we'll see who dares to do something like that. We want to leave the possibility that citizens have confidence in the police, to tell you, lie detector, I don't know why there's panic in one part of the people from the lie detectors? That device can't hurt you, it can't hurt you, it can only register your physiological reactions. You can tell from a polygraph interrogator, an expert in this business, there are several in the MUP who have been there for 10-15 years and who have achieved very good results. I could list to you by morning all the crimes were resolved because the police had good guidance. It's not a means of proof in court, I'm not saying it, but it tells you very well who has reactions that indicate that he's not telling the truth, or what our people would say is he's lying and he's telling you the truth. That's quite enough for the police to know whether to follow the investigation in that direction, if there's enough evidence or not to spend money and focus on something else. So it's not a key thing, but it's a very good thing. The polygraphs are only afraid of the ones you can tell in advance they won't tell you the truth. That's why there's a campaign against it in Serbia. All those who fear that one day they might come to a polygraph, say, that's pointless, that's not necessary, because they want to make up for you in advance, when they come up for a polygraph, that they can turn it down and say no – I don't want to go to a polygraph, I don't care if a polygraph is the same as when they were in their power. That man brings the result, not the minister or anyone else. So, the police will continue to do their job no matter what they say. We will try to earn citizens' trust and show that the fight against corruption and crime must never cease. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46346	There's no basis for replication. No, look at the Rules of Procedure. No, don't, I'm going over your witty, less incursions, but whether or not I can give someone a line, here, I'm calling the Rules of Procedure, you're going to read it up to new choices, so I'll see you in the next life, as your coalition partner says. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46347	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also don't think my fellow farmer had the right to a former replica. If we're former MPs, then the replicas are ex. After his discussion, it is clear that someone who thinks he has his own value should primarily appreciate the value of the others. Apparently, my fellow farmer appreciates it only with himself, with others difficult. I expected more from him since he was the federal police minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46348	MP, let's talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46349	I'm talking about suggestions. How much police law is one of the points on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46350	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46351	My fellow farmer was a minister of police, and it is my right to politically explain in principle the Police Act since this is not a debate in particular. I expected, given the experience that as a farmer with a larger internship, someone who wasn't a police minister, someone who hadn't met with red berets, someone who wasn't having parties for red berets, to teach me how to be a police minister, so let's just say, when I become an former MP, then after the next election I become a new MP, I can run for police minister to be taught by him. I heard that by explaining the Law of Public Order and Peace, he asked for Article 15, right? Article 15 refers to divination, prophesying, interpretation of dreams. His colleague, a colleague of mine, has repeatedly foretold that he has 8.5%. So they were supposed to have 120 hours of community service provided for in Article 15. But what about article 13 dedicated to Lulet. He's talking about the dice, about the matches. My fellow farmer, with some intent, went around Article 13 who was dedicated to a gambler named Lule and who often said that it was not good when the cube was thrown, that it was good when the cube was rejected. I also expected my colleague to interpret this a little bit better on the subject of this article 13 in the light of his experience, and to be aware of the punitiveness of the individual and the family of that work described in Article 13 and who are aware of the ban on gambling, the matchmaking and so on. I think it's 120 hours of work. I also expected around the polygraph, that my colleague, my fellow farmer, in an attempt, a former farmer, as he would say, whose farming business we paid dearly, told me whether he was concerned about the polygraph or the Suzum? If a polygraph speaks, that, as far as I know, is not proof that some work is done, but if it speaks suzum, then it will be worse than when a polygraph speaks. I also expected him to condemn the former shadow government president, who wants to find a place under the sun, or a future prime minister's candidate, or the head of the party on whose list he was elected, to condemn his statement, that he would not answer the call of the official authorities. Imagine the president of the province's government, imagine the Prime Minister in the shadows, imagine a candidate for the future prime minister, better if he had run for former prime minister of the province's government, that would have worked. Imagine when he says, and teaches at law school, that he will not respond to the call of official authorities. So, in no dream, any politician of that rank, by the way, is known to be a little lower, imagine that politician of that format, imagine this professor who teaches at the Faculty of Law, who says he will not respond to the call of official authorities. If he does not believe in a country in which he is ruling in one quarter of the territory, if he does not believe in that country in which he teaches law school, and why would ordinary citizens, especially those prone to crime, believe in the police, believe in the system, believe in the state, when a law professor says he will not respond to the call of official authorities? I expected my fellow farmer to try, say something about it too. But, I believe, if you were to put that company out of there, from Novi Sad, if you were to put on a polygraph, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the police, in such a situation you have to prepare one small tanker ink, one hundred of those pins to record those answers, you have to find big rolls, wide, like those paper towels, so that you can record all the lies that have been told in the last 15 years, to record all the crimes that the party of the former regimes got into, where they left the people on the street, put themselves in fairy tales and castles, and those who followed them in one public gathering that happened here on October 5th, left them on the street while they were there, left empty pockets, empty stomachs, without jobs to wander around the suburbs without any industry, without any jobs. You need a tanker ink, you need lots of spare needles and you need a strong fuse. This polygraph can be very easy to cricket, because the amount of lies that would be spoken on that occasion would not be able to withstand even the most modern polygraph, so it is necessary to maximise those fuses. As far as public gatherings are concerned, I am obliged to say that I expected them to tell you, because that entertainer, who will most likely be the head of their list, was talking about some beaten-up electorate body. Censuri, on that occasion. So, those who have finished censorship, most now talk about censorship, those who have torn up one newspaper, and banned others, sent the police on national television to ban it, etc., they talk about censorship. I expected them to say a little more about this, given that the entertainer said, as he said, the beaten electoral body, the well-whipped electoral body, so I expected to see, in terms of these public gatherings, and there were many who had not been reported, and thanks to these unreported gatherings, carried out by the party of the former regime, even two people have entered their party in the last six months, i.e. To ask them about two police officers with notes below, to ask them, they're the only people who have entered that party, to ask them what they're up to with these unreported gatherings, I thought they'd tell us what a well-wrested electorate body means, since we didn't beat anyone up, whether they meant the late Rank Panic who was beaten to death at a legally reported rally, where they had thrown fans and that they didn't want to investigate four or five, maybe six years. Is that what they meant, and that's why I expected them to say something about the team? But there are short legs in a lie, but I don't see it from a pay phone. It was important to say here who they were against, who they didn't bring up a new idea, they looked like. I call on fellow MPs to vote for a solution, to vote for these laws, I believe they will not vote for problems and that the problems will not vote for a solution, therefore, I call on fellow MPs, who are still MPs, to vote, and I call on the people, when the gentleman, my fellow farmer, prophesy, I call on the people to vote to remain former Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46352	Thank you. The word is Blagoje Bradić. Let Grozdan Banac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46353	I thank Mrs. President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, respected guests from the Ministry of Police, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Nis, here I was at one point thinking about giving up the discussion, because my colleague Marko Djurisic said in principle everything that is important and what is the views of our SDS parliamentary group – together for Serbia and Green Serbia, but a few sentences by Mr. Minister encouraged me to report to him and try to comment on what I think is not good, which should change in this law and in principle, which should be a different policy of the police ministry. What I think is bad is that it's a dedicated position that the police have to be as centralised as possible, that local self-government shouldn't do and that there's interference in the selection of police chiefs, because I think it's bad, that it's not good. Here, Nis is a classic example where politics has been from 2004, until this new year, and I say by this new year, I think she had a bad influence on the choice, who's going to be head of Nish police administration. Nis was once a second city, and now because of this regime and the third city in Serbia, and he was over 6 years old, chief of administration in v. d. condition, which I think, for one such city, is unacceptable. In 2012, Mr. Dacic set up Greece, the man was doing his job, and you can do it before, and your professional associates will give an evaluation of his work, and what I can say is that it is evident, that in our city, we have a state of security that citizens will appreciate, and I don't want to comment on it, that citizens will appreciate in the elections, and what I think is that there is political selection, procession, because we have an unresponsiveness of your ministry and the Ministry of Justice to react to the citizen's supervisor, because this has been going on for many years and a long time, through the media, and it is the largest tender of the city of Nis, of 6 billion, where there are still no response, and we still have a report on the state of the city of Nis, the Nis, where we still have no response and I think that these are missing. I think it's a serious failure. What I think is good, and I want to believe that the results will be excellent, is the appointment of a new SUP chief, where you chose a new police chief, because I think the city of Nis as well, I want to believe that it is still another city in Serbia, has the right and has the possibility to choose from among the ranks of professional people from its composition its own police chief. I think that's how it's supposed to be. Second, I want to do it again. I think that local self-government, whatever authority is currently in the city of Nis, has the right to ask and to give its own judgment and opinion on who will be the police chief. I don't think local self-government should interfere with the work of the BIA, away from it, but those city police and how it should interfere, because these are people who have received citizens' trust and they need to give their own judgment on who will care about the safety of citizens during their term of office. I think it's perfectly normal. Okay, that's where our policies differ. Your SNS policy is the maximum centralisation of the state, the policy of the party of the ZZ is the maximum decentralisation within the limits of Serbia's citizens' well-being. We think it's much better, much more efficient. You have a different policy, normally citizens will judge it in the elections, but I don't think that this is the way the ministry understands and works, especially in local self-governments, when it comes to that day security, I'm not from that area right now, I can't express myself professionally, but we also think that local self-government should be asked, and that it should give its own judgment on whether anyone can or can't be chief of police. I repeat, because of such a relationship and because of such political interference, the city of Nis, which I think you will agree with me is inadmissible, was in six years old. Chief SUP, which is really devastating. I would leave time for my colleague to talk after me more about the laws, as well as Marko Djurisic. I'd like to hear your comment, and whether we vote for your law or not depends on your relationship with amendments where we've tried to make everything we thought was wrong and that it's possible to fix our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46354	Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46355	Well, when Mr Grekulović was set up for V.D. The safety situation in Nis was complicated and there were a lot of problems. At that time, the acting chief, Mr Grekulovic, was appointed, who managed to normalise the situation to a lesser or greater extent, to reduce the number of crimes committed and to set up, to say the situation so that it could be done further and to expect someone from Nis to arrive. We have appointed Chief of Police Nis who is from Nis, Mr Mitic, who is considered a serious and good professional. And it was done when the conditions were obtained to do so. I just wish I had done it before. I can answer for this year and a half, but I don't think Mr. Grekulovic did a bad job. As for all those situations you've instructed, I don't know exactly, but the M.O.P. will respond to any request from the prosecution. So, if the prosecution gives us a request to collect information for any procedure, whoever, from any party or outside parties, we absolutely intend to respond. It is our legal obligation and every procedure in Nis, and in Belgrade, and in Valjevo and anywhere else it will be done in accordance with the law. As far as this local self-government issue is concerned. Why is it impossible for local self-government to ask for the selection of police chiefs or police station chiefs or police authorities? When do you think there would be an investigation of any crime that begins, for example, that local self-government if that local self-government puts it in charge? How do we avoid the influence of local self-government on the execution, or investigation of these crimes that take place in the territory of local self-government, if they directly choose the leadership of a police station, because then this leadership corresponds essentially to them? You know, who chooses you for him and answers you. We can put everything on paper, but he knows who his choice depends on and that man, or that group of people, the beach accounts, and he certainly won't have a particular desire to investigate them and send them somewhere if he knows it's up to them. Secondly, there's one important thing that often happens in local self-government, and it's not just about the police, it's about other things. It would be good if the Republic financed everything without us choosing everything. We just don't get to do that. He who wonders must also finance. If you have enough money, you can solve all questions, for example, all issues of public order and peace that are not within the area of police work, and the time of work of locals, cafes, publishing certain accounts, anything can be solved by local municipal police financed by local self-government. No problem is getting rid of it. As for the police, the investigation of serious crimes, I don't know why a president of the municipality would want to be burdened with such a kind of investigation and, of course, with responsibility for these investigations. You know, you can't pick a police station chief and say - I don't have anything to do with it anymore, but I chose him. It just can't. You must bear responsibility. I'm supposed to answer or the director for having local self-government in a town picked out a bad chief? So how do we establish a system of work? To start creating criminal groups, because those local self-governments have good relations with them. Then you can't call anyone. In that case you say, well, that is the will of local self-government. Then the citizens' will change in that local self-government, so they cut it right off and put it on the new one. Which means there's nothing from the career system. It's not the one who's the best, it's the one who's willing to be the local self-government, which consists of, for example, five coalition parties that then negotiate over that chief -- the transge, the francs, come on, mine will be this one, and yours will be the one. Mine to be from the traffic police, yours to be a criminal, and we're gonna put this one like that. It's a disaster for the system. Such police would be like in some countries where they show them as they are in one where you can do whatever you want for five euros. Throw in a jukebox and the police are working. That's impossible. Such a system would completely collapse the security system in the Republic of Serbia. We have every moment, every year, progress in reducing the number of crimes in increasing security, although the challenges do not become smaller around the world. The migration wave that exists, the state of endangerment of many countries by terrorism, and even in the most developed European countries where such situations may require absolute professionalism in the business. That's why local self-government doesn't have the capacity to choose, but at no point does it mean that local self-government has no right to control, no right to talk, no right to exchange, yes, and that we have provided by law, that local self-government can draw attention to all phenomena and, of course, general criminality. And all our police chiefs respond and have a strict order that they have to sit down and work with local self-government to define all security plans, after all, it is also in the interest of local self-government police stations. Just because it's impossible for it to be direct, means the impact on the setting can't be directly, then you don't have career advancement, you don't have depolitanization, you don't have one elder, you don't have a security system. Then you have 186 people who are placed at the will of local political powers and that depends on their politicalaffinities. So those who belong to these parties will set these up, those who set them up will be the ones who set them up. Since then, coordination of work, because you sometimes have the need to coordinate the work of more police administrations on the lines of work, whether it's traffic, whether it's crime, whether it's public order or peace or anything else, there's nothing there. Imagine then issuing personal documents affected by a particular political structure that says – we want this, then in the next municipality they want to do so. We create inequality among citizens. It is simply impossible for someone from a political structure to interfere, because it would completely derivate, not this law, but general EU tendencies. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. There's an election system, a direct election, so where the fact-finder of local self-government is something like the government's president for the local region, judges are elected directly. In the U.S., you have a vote for certain judges. People choose them in elections and simply in that system, that way it can work, but in a system where you want to apply European standards, standards that exist in Sweden, for example, that goes down, like Sweden used to have a much larger number of police administrations, it now reduces them to exactly one. So they've seen all the advantages of such a unique system, and we want to apply the experiences of those countries that are most applicable to us, the most similar. So, by size, by territory, by the number of people who live and by the system, by telling security challenges. And that's the solution we're applying. So that's what we took and took over from those people who tried those solutions in practice, so just for that reason. I agree that we should have a system where local self-government cooperates with the police, where they share their concern for certain phenomena. So I wasn't as happy as you were. Believe me, I love Nis as much as any other city in Serbia, so I wasn't happy when the Nis citizens in any way felt threatened or insecure. But we have to work together. So, local self-government has to accept its part of the job, and that's why we've advocated it, and I hope when it arrives, I say, from the opinion of the European Commission, since it's been ready for several months now, the new Traffic Safety Act, to give authority to local self-government, that it also sets up video surveillance cameras and radar cameras in co-operation with the police, because it also asks local self-government. In that sense, we want cars outside schools, hospitals, roads not to be savaged, we want more control options, but then local self-government has more money than it can invest in the development of these systems. That's where the police can co-operate with local self-government. In terms of direct choice, that would really be - every municipality with its sheriff and then we would have a very serious problem in the inequality of treatment. You could happen to go from one municipality to another and the police would treat you completely differently and then you wouldn't have anyone to complain to, because that's the law. In this system, we have one Serbian police, which is equally acting on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and this treatment will be regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46356	Thank you. (Wanja Vukić, from town: Replica. It's Dacic. What do you say? I don't understand who you want to answer to. (Wanja Vukić, from the place: The colleagues of Blagoju Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46357	Thank you. I would like to reply to Mr. Bradic mentioning the president of the SPS Dacic, and regarding the appointment of the Chief of Police in Nis. I think he's aware of the reasons. He's right, he hasn't been appointed Chief of Police in Nis for a long time. I think he's also aware of the reasons that existed at the time, which is primarily the political pressure of the DS to appoint chiefs of police administrations and chiefs at the ministry's headquarters. So Nis wasn't the only one where there weren't any commissioners, it was both Novi Sad and other parts. However, Minister Dacic decided to send Mr Grekulovic because the situation in Nis has become dramatic and has sent a man from Belgrade who has managed so much to solve the problem that existed in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46358	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Say, Mr. Sutanovac, what's the matter now? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: political pressure DS. But we've become all sensitive, that's amazing. Wait, first Blagoje Bradic to respond to this direct replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46359	I really don't understand the reason for the replica. I think he's a fellow MP from the area of the police. I'm not, I'm a dentist. But what I wanted to say had a completely different context. I was talking about the lack of co-operation with local self-government and lack of hearing for the opinion and attitudes of local self-government on whose territory a police administration has led to the fact that Nis, who is the second city in Serbia, had the SUP chief in the DVD for six years. How come people who work in the SUP are absolutely professional and absolutely enjoying the trust of their neighbors, if they have insecure leadership and someone who's in the window, the question is what is law enforcement? I am now speaking as a citizen of Nisha. And it's perfectly normal for one city that's the second largest city in the country to have a police chief, not a VD chief. Whether he should be from another city, whether he should be from Belgrade or be from Nis, I think he should be from Nis. It would be as if there were no capable personnel in Belgrade's Police Administration in Belgrade and you brought Nishia to be chief of police administration. I believe, I deeply believe that there are professional people in the Ministry and the Belgrade Police Department who are capable of running police administration in their territory. I'm not saying that from local patriotism, but because whoever works at the Nis Police Department knows the situation best and knows the problems in that city and how to solve them. That's how I see it. I hope that in the near future we can change that and that local self-government has a way and an opportunity to influence the selection of quality personnel. What the minister said, I completely understand him, I'm starting with every local self-government...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46360	Thank you. Time. You answered. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46361	I think it is quite clear to the citizens of Serbia that there is a tendency that everything that has happened in the past period should be handled by DS, even for the bars that it has never held. The fact is that both in the new law and in the past, the MUP is independent and the police are the same. It does not seem, therefore, that someone was exerting political pressure, or that he was able to put political pressure on the situation in which the director of the police proposed to Chief Nis in a proper manner. The more important thing for someone to be filled with batteries in a microphone and that the sound that's driving in the trunk of a car be ready to always sing when they've got some police sightings, not put up the chiefs of police administration... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46362	Wait, it wasn't an election yet. Don't run for President of Parliament, please, Ambassador Sutanovac. I'll warn my colleague. Just use your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46363	Did I lie to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46364	Are you done with the replica, so we can move on to the discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46365	I'm just asking you to let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46366	I'll make it happen, but not everyone can agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46367	So, the fact that someone hasn't done their job, obviously, which is why we're making a proposal for a new law today, and it hasn't been done in the past, it can't be settled on DS, it's not right at least. What I was talking about, distinguished colleagues, you know that better than me, some of you were present and you didn't have a problem with saying that – wait, people, let's solve the problems first, and then we'll sing and play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46368	The word is Vanja Vukic. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? Because you were yelling at him—that's right, you were speaking to him personally. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Not to him, colleagues, this right.) Well, would you like a colleague to answer on the right? No, Vanja Vukic was recognized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46369	I'm thanking you. I don't know why this kind of panic, and I don't know why you got hit, when you know who made the decisions, and that man, that president, is no longer in your party, but in Mr. Bradic's party, or I don't know which other party. What's important is this, too, is that you've always wanted to run the MAP without having any responsibility, putting up personnel, running your actions, your private officers, etc., and you've never wanted to be held accountable and you've never had a Home Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46370	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46371	I have to admit, I'm completely unclear what my colleague was trying to say. You've had the Minister of the Interior for years. No r from the reform was made in the ministry. Today I hear you praise the reform efforts of the current minister. No one asks you, what was not done three, four, five or six years ago? Who was going to take a shot at the MUP when only the minister and director of the police were authorized by law? So an excuse, an excuse, an excuse. We set up the picture with the banana, we made the suitcase, we did everything. Come on, guys, get serious. Take responsibility for what you have done, and the fact is that there is no reform from Duško Mihajlovic in the MUP, no matter what you say about him buying lighters, and here it was more important that the batteries are charged, that the microphone can work immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46372	The word is Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46373	Thank you. So, the SPS had political responsibility and got 15% in the last election, like you, and you got 5% and I hope that in the next election you won't get so much or cross the censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46375	What's the big deal, guys? We have elections soon. The democratic party of the time, a respected counterpart, Vukic, received 22.4% in 2012. I believe you don't have amnesia like some colleagues who don't remember it. But no matter who, the M.O.P. knows who ran it. That's the one who's responsible. It's like if I told you to do it, you wanted to do it in the army. Well, you wanted to, but I didn't give. To be honest, you had all kinds of ideas, but we said, no, it can't. How is it possible that someone in the police controlled instead of the interior minister, in violation of both past law and law that we will adopt in the coming days? So, if so, let's see who did it and who broke the law and why he broke the law. You didn't answer me if you really think we brought in a meeting with former Minister Misha Banana or set up a suitcase? We forgot the story the current Prime Minister was telling that some high-ranking M.O.P. was seeing with what's in Spain in prison. What's his name? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Miki Jevremović. ) Not Miki Jevremovic. You know exactly who he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46376	Mr. Jovanovic, on what grounds? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. You're not the one to mention it. There's the head of the parliamentary group. Are you Misa Banana or Nejo Jovanovic? (Nedjo Jovanovic throws.) To pretend there's no head of the parliamentary group? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: He came out.) The authorized has come out. You're sitting here, and you're giving the deputy a call. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Why can't he? You can only leave the O.R. Log out, so much I can do that you are not currently authorized, but Nedjo Jovanovic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: What's the difference? ) There is a huge difference. Please don't. Do you know how long we've been MPs? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the scene: absolutely. I'll give you my word, once the president's checked out, the president isn't here, he doesn't exist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46377	Thank you. Very short. Given that here is auctioned with some percentages of 5%, 22, 24, etc., I just have to point out one fact, and 24% of DS couldn't make the coalition itself to the government, but had to call for the help of one who had certain authority, both politically and professionally, and that on the basis of what the SPS gave them tried to exercise responsible authority. How responsibly they exercised power speaks for what Mr Sutanovac said, he says something quite different, and this is a large number of arrested ministers from the DS, those who have various abuses, malfeasances, manipulations that have led to major adverse consequences of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then what happened? It has happened that criminal proceedings are being opened and that these criminal proceedings are taking place today, some of them, thank God, are over and then we have situations where DS ministers appear as suspects, and we don't want to hurt the prejudgation of innocence, but it's doubtless the same that these actions will surprise what we're looking for, and we're looking for truth and responsibility. If anyone is responsible, he will be punished. That goes for everyone. On the political scene, there is no abolism, an amnesty of criminal responsibility. If so, then those who call upon it should first look into their own backyard and look into others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46378	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46379	I don't know what this much bile is about, dear colleague, but when you've already started the topic, I'll tell you that before the New Year, December 28, 79 people were arrested, or brought in in a big action. It's 17 members of the DS, four of them are detained. You ruled them out, I see, as a lawyer you can give it to yourself for justice. What about the Galenika affair? What about the Danube Insurance affair? What about that suitcase? What about Mish Banan? What about Mr. Boyovic? Do you really think I should list everything that's put on your mind because you're the government, so you can talk more glare here and you don't have processes because you're being protected by the SNS? Mr Jovanovic, I have responded to the mention of the DS in a pesoriatic sense, and in the part where it is said that we have violated the law, by affecting human resources in the MUP, which is not true, it is simply not true. If there's one document about it, put it on public notice and I'll apologize to everyone, including the former minister. If it doesn't exist, you deny me, if you can for that microphone, the batteries and everything, so we can cross our knowledge and see who's telling the truth and who's telling the truth. I'm just asking you, as a fellow attorney, that when you talk about people who have been detained, always look behind you. How many SPS members have been detained lately? No one's been convicted and we're not talking about it, but you're being sleazy, and you've been with us in a coalition where, as things stand, you haven't wondered anything. How is that possible? Now you're not wondering anything, but you've been wondering about us, you've seemed most of the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46380	The People's Messenger Nedjo Jovanovic has the word, because of his personal address, and after him the MP of the people, Djordje Milicevic, for mentioning the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46381	I thank you, President. First of all, what the DS does not want to accept is one principle that the SPS is very consistently following and insisting on it all the time, and that is that all those who have sinned against the law are prosecuted and responsible if there is a basis for it. If such a principle is an honest principle, then it should apply to everything. I don't understand why such political demagogy and hypocrisis is being brought up by a fellow Sutanovac about some number of arrested, unpunished, etc. I have brought only the truth here, nothing more, and that is that the ministers of the DS who led certain resolutions, so it was only the ministers who were prosecuted, against whom the pre-criminal procedure was conducted, and I said very clearly that I did not want, first of all, to hurt the pre-judgment of the truth. I would like the truth to be established like any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but it is also doubtless that so many years of certain situations are being followed, that these same ministers are on certain resolutions, whose names I will not mention, are now the culprits of those so-called. anti-legislative acts, counter-laws which not only lead to pre-criminal proceedings, but also a public prosecutor's investigation. After all, we'll see what's going to happen. As for Galenika and anything else, we don't really have any problem establishing anything in Galenika, any other place, whoever did anything wrong will be responsible no matter who is or what is in the SPS, but someone will be a mirror for the DS and let it be a mirror for the entire opposition, and then we will have a very clear political dialogue in which there will be no demagogy as it was today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46382	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46383	Thank you. Very briefly, there's no reason for anyone to be protected by the SPS in any way. We advocate and have always advocated that competent authorities, competent institutions do their job and believe in the final court and the position of competent authorities and competent institutions. We don't want trial to bring and bring to the level of day-to-day political issues. But it's a feature of some other political options, and I'm not going to go further into that kind of debate. We have been part of the ruling coalition since 2008-2012, but the SPS has never run away from responsibility and we are always ready to account for what we had responsibility for, even in that period since 2008-2012. I repeat, some competent authorities, competent institutions are doing their job. Serbia today is arranged, a normal, legal state, a state in which the institutions of the system function and on all these issues about which I see a fellow Sutanovac has certain dilemmas. Let the competent authorities give the final and final answer. Don't judge. I see you find it interesting to have a party from the Republic Parliament. We don't view this as fun. I see you're interested in microphones. If we wanted to look at it that way, we would go back to the budget debate, so we would remind ourselves who was at the concerts when it came to extremely important topics. But we don't want to bring it to this level of debate. I see it's interesting for you to return to some previously mounted, carved processes. You had a chance to talk about it from 2008 to 2012, I don't know why you didn't? I am specifically referring to the ‘Coffer’ affair. I think the process is over, correct me if I'm wrong, and I think the competent authorities and the competent institutions have given their final position and final answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46384	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46385	Dear colleagues, just to remind you that I didn't start this debate. This debate has been started by you, in order to show that you are more callif than the Caliph, that what the SNS is doing in parliament, you can even more strongly show that you have nothing to do with us and that the Democratic Party is guilty of your failures. Mr Jovanovic, a senior official of the Democratic Party, was detained. He was 13 months old to turn out to be unfounded, in custody. Until he was convicted of being released, you voted for him to be Minister of Agriculture here in parliament. You voted for the man against whom the trial was being conducted at that time. And you didn't mind being the Minister of Agriculture in the government that you supported. But you have a problem with the political process, I'm telling you, because if Dragin is guilty, it's all the members of the government who then raised their hand for the proposal, as well as your current president who signed it. So you have a double archin. Amnesia, on the one hand, for what you've been doing, or you know what's good that's yours, I've heard recently that even the minister at that time of the interior is responsible for taking down the visa regime, but, for what they've been missing, it's someone else's fault. Let's get serious. Dear colleague, if you want me to get you who was at the concert, I'm afraid there are more people in this room who have been to more concerts that night. I know what I was doing there, but for your colleagues, I'm not sure I can figure out how they got there at the moment of such an important debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46386	Time. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46387	First of all, I want to say that the SPS MPs are very serious and responsible and that they are very committed to doing their job. In my previous presentation, I said, I will do it again and now – we do not want to run away from responsibility. We shared the responsibility from 2008 to 2012 and we are ready to account for everything we have taken responsibility for. But don't impose any kind of collective responsibility system on us. No collective responsibility. There's an individual responsibility if someone broke the law. I repeat – we are ready to take responsibility for everything we had responsibility for in the period from 2008 to 2012. And you know how? Citizens are always the ones who give the final stand and the final judgment. And don't, please, talk about seriousness, how someone performs or doesn't perform a function. You have a party president who I think is still the president of the province government. Instead of doing his job, we see him at party press conferences a little bit. Because you think that's what the people of Vojvodina expect? Do you think that the citizens of Vojvodina, those living in Vojvodina, in northern Serbia, expect the president of the province government to hold party conferences or to do his job and to achieve results that will be in the interest of the people of Vojvodina? So much for the seriousness or indifference of performing responsible functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46388	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46389	On the basis of this last remark regarding Mr. Pitiæ, I only have one question to ask. Would that mean that Mr. Vukic has nothing to look for at party press conferences and does that also mean that Mr. Dacic wouldn't have anything to look for at party press conferences?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46390	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46391	I'll tell you very briefly. Both Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic are very committed, seriously and responsibly doing their job, and you will see it very soon in the extraordinary parliamentary elections you have so called upon, and you have prayed to God that these extraordinary parliamentary elections do not occur. You know, we're about to have an extraordinary parliamentary election and no one in Serbia is going to be able to hide. So, all those who have called and wanted elections, have prayed for no election, will now have the opportunity to hear the final stand and the final court of citizens. As for Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, I have not noticed, and you correct me if I am wrong, that during the period when citizens expect to work in their interest, let me say during the working time, they held party press conferences. And did Mr. Pitiæ do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46392	The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46393	The results of the province's government are more than visible. They are also visible in the fact that they are confirmed, after all, and large international public recognitions, very credible, which have been confirmed to be one of the best foreign investment areas and that is a well-known thing. It is known that the government of Vojvodina has worked responsibly and has done maximum work in the opening of jobs, etc. What you're saying is that someone is going to hide in the elections, I understand the ruling majority's desire to produce an atmosphere of fear, which in these elections will have a huge impact on whether or not the citizens will waver. That's the wrong story you're telling right now, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46395	I don't think you and I are alone in this room, there are ladies and gentlemen from the Home Office. I don't think with my speech I wanted to scare anyone in this room. You scared the shit out of me. I'm sorry if I scared you. Here, this is the last show, and I'm not going back to this. But I'm not contesting your right to talk about the results, the alleged results of the province's government. But again, I say -- citizens living in northern Serbia will say what they think about the results of the province's government and the results of the president of the province's government, Mr. Bojan Pajtic. I believe you'll be uncomfortablely surprised when you look at those results. And if you believe so much in these results, why don't you call the regional elections, but hold the chairs and that last day of the province government's term? Thank you. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: Replica, mentioned the last name. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46396	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46397	How not negative, man, you scared us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to your misfortune, obviously, but the fact is that Serbia is the best living in the northern province and that this northern province of Vojvodina has become one of the best regions in all of Europe, at least it has been declared by international institutions. I fully understand your need to show it as a negative, I fully understand your desire to unearth everything that has been done in the past, you fully understand the desire to show it in the '90s as a year of success, and since 5 October, we have come up as years of failure. I completely understand all of that, but it's just not true. That doesn't stand. And it is true that we are not alone here, but let me remind you -- no one mentioned your party until you started talking about the Democratic Party. And imagine that now Minister Stefanovic stands up and says he can't do his job at the Interior Ministry because someone in the SPS is putting pressure on him? I would resign, Mr. Stefanovic, right now. I'd say someone's putting pressure on me and I can't do my job, and by law, I'm doing it independently and independently. So don't take your responsibility anymore. On the contrary – show that you were part of that government that made a much better result than this government. You took part in that government's decision, you're not involved in the decision-making process in this government. And instead of saying -- when we used to cooperate, we did it, and that, the state owed less than 10 billion than now, you hope that if, by any chance, the SNS crossed 126 to accept you because of these maestro speeches, you'll be irrelevant in the government and important to yourself again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46398	Time. I give the word to Nej Jovanovic, on the same principle, because of his last name. Nejko Jovanovic for his last name, that's why. I was wrong. I gave it to you, and I gave it to him now on the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46399	I would like to thank the President. I hope that we will no longer lead the controversy over certain things that need not be driven by controversy because the SPS only made the political thing right is that it helped resuscitate the political DS to survive, and that survival was precisely when we helped them to be in government and remain in power as long as they were in power. Thank God after that, they're going where they're going. We wish them a happy journey. Let them go further where they're going now. We certainly will not go with them because we do not see that this is a path of political progress and a path of good with Serbia. Of course, this coalition and this authority have done much as a responsible authority, that it has introduced Serbia to the door of Europe through whose door Serbia will safely and safely enter, and it is doubtless that everything that has not been done in that period from 2008 to 2012 has been done now. Which is why I'm so sorry DS that they didn't do exactly this kind of capital thing as this government did, so let's keep DS on thinking. We're not dealing with this anymore. As far as Vojvodina is concerned, as far as it's done in Vojvodina is best known to the citizens of Vojvodina, those who are agricultural producers in Vojvodina who know that just during the DS agriculture has been devastated, that the land has been devastated, that countless thousands of farming cooperatives have been extinguished that they have all been left without what it means to serve agricultural producers and we are now talking about a Vojvodina as prosperous. Unfortunately, it is not nearly that way, but it will be in the period following the early parliamentary elections, in a period when Serbia meets all its objectives by 2020.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46400	Time. I thought we'd finish, but Dragan Sutanovac insists. The MPs are rebelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46401	You give your colleagues a word, and I don't mention either of your clients or them personally. When they mention me by my last name personally, then you point out how I insist. I'm just asking you -- how's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46402	I can only talk through the Rules of Procedure. I can't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46403	We can go over the microphone. It doesn't matter. To be very precise, in 2008, DS won almost 39% of the vote with its coalition. President Tadic has been elected president of the Republic. It is hardly that any party in Serbia then resuscitated the DS. Anyone who believes in it lives in great error. It just happened the other way around. To the indignation of a large number of DS members we have resuscitated obviously someone who today is trying to distance himself from everything that has been done by wanting to present DS as the culprit for what is wrong and himself as responsible for what is right. If we're going to talk about agriculture in Vojvodina, gentlemen, why didn't you let them come with tractors outside the Assembly to tell you what kind of relationship they have to this authority and to you who voted the law to sell state land to foreigners? Why didn't you let go if you were so fond of duchess or peasants, what do they like to say? I'm afraid that sword has two blades. You've taken hold of something you obviously didn't see very well, but no matter what, we're not ashamed of the government from 2008 to 2012. We're convinced that this government has done a lot more good than this one, had a lot more good results than this one, didn't devastate the state, didn't overrun the country. She freed us from all kinds of disciplines that existed. The environment was much better. She's raised her standard of living. She didn't raise her taxes like this. She didn't introduce electricity excise. She didn't raise an excise on the fuel. Guys, I understand your anger, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46404	Thank you. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46405	No mention of him or the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46406	It's not? What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46407	It's not. I haven't mentioned him or the party for a moment. Believe me, here's a read. (Djordje Milicevic, from the scene: I answered earlier. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46408	Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46409	I can't do two replicas for one speech. Now Nedja and George on me one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46410	Sign up again. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46411	Thank you, Madam President. I called earlier when you spoke of fear, but the president gave Nej Jovanovic his word. I wanted to say that I feel safe when the representatives of the M.O.P. are here near us. I don't know why you feel insecure. I don't have that uncertainty and fear when I see people in uniform around me. On the contrary, I feel safe. You said a few words, you mentioned Mr. Stefanovic, and you said in the context that someone was pressuring Mr. Stefanovic, he would resign. There's no reason for him to resign. You know why? Because no one in the SPS is putting pressure on Mr Stefanovic. Mr Vukic spoke about the period from 2008 to 2012 and I would not repeat what he was talking about, if someone had put pressure on the interior minister at the time. You're talking about the results of some international institutions. What international institutions? Let us finally hear what are the international institutions that say that the District government has achieved serious results in the interest of the people of Vojvodina. You need to go back in time. I'm just going to tell you about, I repeat, who knows which time, between 2008 and 2012 that we don't run away from responsibility. Everything we've taken responsibility for is always ready to settle our accounts. As for the '90s, I can see that you dragged the 90s into this story, and today in 2016, we have never escaped from our past, but unlike you, we have learned lessons from our past. It seems to me that you didn't get that lesson right in the period after 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46412	Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46413	Let me answer that. The European Commission and the Financial Times have declared, if they are not credible, Vojvodina as one of the best investment regions in Europe, just as they were during Belgrade's late Nenad Bogdanovic's mayor, Belgrade was declared a city of the future. However, we are now entering a situation for which I must tell you that this will look after the next elections – after the next elections, here, colleagues who today say that they were prevented from doing their job at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to say that they were prevented from doing their jobs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because there are a dozen embassies around the world that have not been appointed ambassadors. Why aren't the ambassadors set up? Because the foreign minister doesn't do his job. Who's bothering him? He's being distracted by a majority partner for sure, not DS because we're not in that future right now, but you'll have the same excuse in two years, or two months. Guys, just take responsibility for what you didn't do and for what you did and don't say anything I asked you earlier. Document one pressure that exists and I'll apologize to you all. If there's no such thing, and that's all at the level of saying-telling, you're serious people, I guess, we're MPs, citizens chose us to tell the truth. Please continue this session on the agenda. I think the Police Act is much more important than our subjects and dilemmas, and we'll talk about this in the campaign, and we'll see who did what for good in the country and who's bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46414	The word is Grozdana Banac, and let Natasa Vukkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46415	Thank you, Your Honor, I have finally come to order. This is really unserious to open up here a political tribune that doesn't have an absolute touch point on the agenda. If we're talking about general matters, there's someone here representing someone with no power of attorney. We built a courtroom here, the D.A.'s office, I don't know what it is, and thank you anyway. I want to express my sincere condolences to the family in front of the PUPS parliamentary group, I hope all the other MPs who are here, the family of the recently tragically deceased police officer who left a bright memory of us here in the Assembly and finally move on to the agenda. Mr. Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for your extraordinary effort and the work that you have otherwise confirmed with your life's attitude for many years, and as a good Parliamentarian, you treat your work professionally. All these legal frameworks and this set of police laws we will, of course, support in general. Thank you for making it possible as a good Parliamentarian that we can all get involved and give our suggestions and suggestions that you have in a really correct way and adopted. In the part of the law relating to the organisation and jurisdiction of police, certain changes have been made concerning police directorates, whose powers are now extended so that, in addition to their earlier responsibilities, Article 24 is now further authorised to carry out strategic public security assessments, to adopt a strategic plan of police and participate in drawing up a human resources plan, to deal with international operational co-operation and to work on resolving citizens' status issues in issuing public documents from its work. Article 75, which refers to the conditions for verifying the identity of the person, in addition to cases which are taxed in the so far applicable Article 42. The law on police has added another case when an identity check is carried out, and that is when it unauthorizedly collects data on a person, object or space that is protected safely. A new position has also been added to which a police officer may deny an identity check notice if it is used to notify of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty and if this could compromise the achievement of the verification objective. Article 76 adds that an identity check may be carried out without the knowledge of a person if there are reasonable doubts that the person is the perpetrator of a criminal offence being prosecuted by official duty. In Article 77, paragraph 1 of the current text, it is added that identification determination is carried out if it is otherwise not possible to verify the identity of the person or on the basis of a specific request from the competent authority. A new item 3 has also been added to determine further action when an identity is established, i.e. to which such data are to be sent. In Article 79, which refers to the call, the current solution provides that if the suspect is involved, he must be informed and has the right to defend himself. Articles 93 and 94 set out in greater detail the handling of cases of temporary confiscation of cases. For the first time, the bill sets out issues relating to the security clearance procedure, which were only mentioned in the current law, and have been regulated mainly by sublaws. Article 102 provides for security checks to be carried out, and in Articles 141 to 144 I am the way security checks are to be carried out at three levels, depending on the extent of the data. In the part relating to the means of coercion and their use, Article 105, despite all existing means, is now being added to the sprayers with an ardent fact and electromagnetic means. Article 108 provides for the possibility for a three-member commission to participate in the control of the use of funds, not just one authorised police officer. Article 137, which discusses conditions for establishing a working relationship with police, states that the candidate must have a registered residence on Serbia's territory at least five years uninterrupted before the date of application. Article 138 amends the conditions which pose a disturbance to the establishment of a working relationship, and provides that candidates who have been sentenced to prison sentences of more than six months may not be admitted. The current ban applies to those who have been punished for more than three months, and it has been added that those who have been criminally punished for an offence in the area of violence or if security concerns are found to exist. Article 166 provides for changes on how to systematise the position of employees, and that, instead of so far, police officers, inspectors, police advisers, a smaller number of military acts are introduced, from a junior sergeant to police generals, which will, of course, be innovative and greatly improved by police work, so that everyone can acquire the conditions and knowledge needed in this sector and ministry. Proposal for a law on public gathering. I'd say a few words here compared to an earlier law. Article 3 defines a gathering of more than 20 people to promote their own views. Article 7 defined that public gatherings were normally held between six and 24 hours, but there were more precise provisions in the previous law to specify public traffic gatherings. You normally explained very nicely in public debates, and today you explained this gathering of more than 20 people to promote your own attitudes. So, it's not going to be an organizer, it's going to be people who want to make their views known, and that's just fine. You've done it perfectly and in the spirit of the 21st century and I'm very glad that you've aligned everything with the European standards that are necessary for us to move forward, of course. In Article 12, the deadline for the registration of the gathering was significantly moved from earlier 48 hours before the start of five days before the time set for the start of the gathering. Articles 15 and 16 have amended the legal protection of the right to assembly in cases of refusal to grant approval. Under the earlier law of refusal, the first local court had an urgent decision, and there was the right to appeal to the Supreme Court, and in both cases, short deadlines were prescribed for courts to make decisions. The appeal solution is now predicted to be submitted directly to the interior minister, and administrative dispute can be conducted against his solution. Dear Mr. Minister, you've made a great contribution and you've recognized, I'm glad, because it's your life's attitude as regards domestic violence. I'm so glad you recognized it and supported it. However, you must also have the support of the Justice Department. I sincerely hope that you will find one agreement where a truly one legal framework with the Police Act would be made, so that you have greater support, more jurisdiction regarding all other legal frameworks that the police can apply as far as that goes. Violence in the family is already one big problem that you, of course, recognized and I see you fit as much as you could as the Resort Ministry in the Police Act. However, the Ministry of Justice, already in Criminal Law, there is a measure of urgency and a detachment from the family home or the family apartment where the bully lives, but violence is carried out in several kinds. It's not just a matter of physical violence, it's a matter of mental and other violence committed in the family against children and mothers of those children. So the judiciary also has to make the prosecution more understanding, it's all about the Justice Department. The prosecution rejects many things, and many things are not solved by the police. We don't have, simply applying that existing criminal law that we have, because the criminal law that already exists is also intended for community service, and for all other things that fit into this violence. Violence is also that many parents, single mothers, do not pay for children to support and everything else, we will do so under the law which, I sincerely hope, will set up a set of laws from the Ministry of Justice, which Mr Selakovic will prepare. I thank you, Minister, for your efforts and your work, which is widely known in this city and this country, and I hope you will be able to continue to regulate the entire work of the police, so that citizens can truly have one order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46416	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46417	I thank you, and I want to rely on something that one of the previous MPs said was the aim of these laws, primarily the Police Act to establish the efficiency of police, the integrity of police. I would agree with that, but one of the objectives of these laws, for us in the DS, is the key question of how these laws reflect the degree of democracy in our society, the achievement of the rights and freedom of citizens, and whether they have the potential to threaten the freedoms and fundamental rights of citizens. These three laws, which we are discussing today, fall within the scope of chapters 23 and 24 and all those dealing with European integration or following the EU negotiation process, know that we are expected to have the most obstacles. What is important to say here, we have passed many laws in various areas that may have been good, have received positive opinions from the European Commission, but in areas where we have adopted new laws, the situation has actually deteriorated. Take, for example, the media sphere and the Media Act. We all praised media laws when they were passed, very commended by the European Commission, but in application, in what is daily political practice, we see a constant threat to freedom of the media, and the right to objective information. That brings me to the question, what does the law mean to this government? Is there a new law guaranteeing that the state of freedom and rights will really improve, that the rule of law in Serbia will really improve? You see, we just mentioned the election that's coming. It's been a year since the local elections in Mionica. For a year, there was no answer to the question of who beat up Milan Gavrilovic of Mionica, a political activist of the DS? More than a year has passed since the Vrbas elections, we have no answer to the question, no investigation, no prosecution, no police, what happened in Vrbas, why was an unauthorized detainee, almost kidnapped by an DS activist? These are key issues, because these are the ways in which we realize, we are our rights, Serbian citizens, in elections, in the street, in everyday life and in work. Is our police, our prosecution, incompetent to conduct these investigations and lead to results? I don't believe that. Our police have conducted serious investigations, revealed serious international associations to commit crimes, etc., rather than the fact that there is some magic, secret, informal way of putting pressure, blackmail on the police, and that then the perpetrators cannot be found, that the perpetrators are not brought to justice, and that we have an irregular state in the state, which produces very big consequences for the disturbance of citizens, and their feeling that there is no guarantee in this country that they will be able to achieve their rights. Because if we treat members of the political opposition this way, then how are ordinary citizens who do not have the support of political parties, in a legal sense, advisory, etc. how will they protect their rights. What is called this political influence on police is the political abuse of police in party, or partial, particular purposes. Take, for example, leaks of information. This is already the third, if not the fourth year in a row, one of the most serious remarks in the European Commission's annual progress report on Serbia, and there is no mention of any progress. Here says the minister earlier, that this will now be envisaged as a special disciplinary responsibility. We don't read it in law. There, of course, will be no more serious violation of the work duty of giving away information bearing the code of “secretion. ” I guess that's what's been planned so far. Why haven't we applied that provision so far, Minister, why haven't we discovered any case of leaking information into the tabloids that are being violated, the assumption of innocence, endangering human rights, etc.? So there's no guarantee that this law on police will be done more in that sphere. Recently, early this fall, Serbian citizens were intimidated by the story of a coup. And it was another one of the police abuses. At a press conference, the minister appeared, behind him being lined up by a police officer in uniforms. Do we think as MPs and representatives of the citizens, that this is a normal picture in one democracy? Is that the Swedish model we stand for today when we propose this law? I would remind you that after 13 November in Paris, France, it did not occur to any of the representatives of the French government to order police officers behind them, because they know what their business is and what their jurisdiction is. These powers are not to appear in the performances of the executive government, which aim to intimidate citizens and to campaign for a political party in power. So it's one of the very large examples of how this abuse of power was committed. Let's take a look at the next thing, and that's a pre-annual arrest. We've all had a chance to see that, when we look at the descriptions of the works that these 80 people have been arrested for, it's clear that these are works that have no relationship with each other, and it's assumed that in fact they're completely independent of each other, because they're works by time, by kind, by place, in any case completely separate from each other. So there was no reason for their actors to be arrested collectively. All in one day. What exactly was the goal? The goal was to make it again, a media show, and to achieve one major effect, there were 80 people arrested, and to lead citizens to the conclusion that a serious fight was being fought for the rule of law. As DS, we advocate it, of course, that anyone who has done something contrary to the law be brought to justice, and there is no dispute, it is only about whether we abuse as an executive power, as a minister, as a government, the police for some other effects, and not for those roles and those functions that they in a democratic society must have. That's the main question for us. Because then the question arises – where are fellow MPs, the limits of such behaviour? If at one point it took 80 people to be arrested to create a media effect, it might take 500 at another point. So, for us, the question is whether when we pass a law that has its own good side, I am willing to admit it, even if I am ready to say that it is a well-informed public debate, and that many of the elements in this public debate that have been put forward are adopted as proposals, but the question is whether this government, is this minister, is ready to make those new solutions that have been made, even apply. We don't think so, and there's a very big problem in that. Here's an example, let's say, security checks. That security check was defined in this law as a very arbitrary process. The trustee suggested two years ago that a special law be passed on security checks for all those subject to a security check, and that would be a much better solution. Here, for example, that much loves the machine of a polygraph, to which many attach some magical facts, a polygraph leads to finding out if there was a coup, we might find out if there were any plagiarists, whether it was this or that. So we love that machine very much. She found application in this law, in the procedure of conducting a security check. He tells us the minister is doing the same, whether he mentioned the FBI, possibly possibly, but there is a very large, responsible, detailed, parliamentary and civilian control over the work of the FBI and all other similar institutions, and most importantly, there is serious internal control. With us, however, such internal control is only now being introduced, we will see whether it works or not, and we are introducing various new mechanisms that create a very large potential for abuse. That's why we don't think they're good solutions. She was led, so we are not satisfied with how the Internal Affairs Service was set up, we believe that working relationships are not well defined in the sense that a police officer is expected to stop working if a criminal investigation is launched, etc. As far as sublegal acts are concerned, the time foreseen for the adoption of sublegal acts of one year is enormous, and we expect that this law will not actually apply in the good part of next year. As far as the Law of Public Order and Peace is concerned, there are two main objections, one concerns penalties that are too great if you are asking someone, which means they are forced to do so, you give such a range of fines from 5,000 to 30,000 dinars. Do you really think that's okay? In doing so, one who, say, resells tickets at games or probably some similar events has just a slightly bigger penalty, I think 50,000 dinars is its maximum. As far as the Law on Public Assembly is concerned, a very big mistake has been made in the fact that the restrictions, which are set for freedom of assembly, are much wider than provided for in the Constitution and in Article 54. The Constitution. When you look at article 54. The constitution you will see that the restrictions provided for the freedom of gathering are much less than provided for by this law. It's one thing that's not allowed, after all. The restrictions provided for in the Constitution are maximum restrictions on individual rights and freedoms. So we won't vote for these laws. We have submitted a number of amendments, and what is our general belief, is that this Law on the Police, will not lead to depolitisation, the police on the one hand, and on the other, that the Law on Public Gathering will discourage a large number of those who have the right to gather, precisely by placing huge restrictions on the organizers of the gathering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46418	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46419	I have carefully read EU reports on Serbia, progress reports from 2008 to 2015, of course with special reference to police, the judiciary and everything else. When you read what they said in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, you are ashamed of those people who were in power in this country, you are ashamed of what kind of sentences about justice and police are about the state of human rights, the media, these are terrible sentences. These are the sentences in which you see that the EU thought all the worst of Serbia, that it did not mean it brutally, but almost brutally. So, she showed that she doesn't think at all that there is any serious progress, that there are no mechanisms, or that Serbia has done anything to move towards reform in Serbia. So, the EU says, above all, about the situation in the judiciary which was the hardest and worst, but of course all other elements. But then there was a time when the leak of information in the tabloids, there was nothing that knew where it was going from, went from the top of the government, always dictated the front pages. Take some newspapers, because today you have newspapers that write completely different. One of them attacks power, one of them writes neutrally, one of them supports it, and then you have the same titles. I watched the headlines, the pages, the same headlines, how all the editors of all the media figured out to put the same phrase on the front page. Someone must have called them on the phone, but it's not us from the opposition. It's someone else's radio. They know people from the media who called them and what they call those people who worked in certain cabinets, some of them high-ranking state leaders. Many people in this room know that, but they don't like to remember, because they're not exactly famous days of that past, it was democracy back then. However, as for a story that is constantly being run around in the media, the DS has as "massage boxing" that should be mentioned, which is a coup. None of the government, none of the ministers, nor anyone mentioned ever a coup and were told by journalists. Excuse me, do we have to tell the press what they're going to say? It's the job of the press. They say each other, one third, the same one who doesn't mind, when there's a coup in Republika Srpska, then it's okay to say it, there is, but we don't know here, we don't get involved in it. I've never said "a coup" before for a press conference, I never mentioned it, ever, at any point. Am I going to be a guest on some show where some reporters are going to show up? What can I do with that? Stop them from saying what they're going to say? To influence what they're going to say? Well, I'm not from the ranks of the former government, we're not the ones who dictate to the press what they're going to write and what they're going to think. Let them write and think whatever they want, as you can see in Serbia now. You today have the kind of criticism of the authorities in the most investigative media, in the most watched shows, what kind of woman in 2011 and 2012 could not have imagined, but absolutely to imagine, the presentation of such monstrosity about Alexander Vukic that he had kicked his wife and killed his child like that? Excuse me, who could have written that for that government in any media? This was not possible at the time, and today in Serbia it is possible, as much as I was threatened and terrified to call any media, you in Serbia today have the opportunity to write anything about anyone. As far as different things are concerned, there are things the police haven't discovered yet. Some investigations are still being conducted and will be conducted. Unfortunately, we discovered some murders after 15, 20 years. We discovered who wrote the graphite "death of Pajtic", and then people didn't like it because the activist of the party to which Mr. Pajtic belonged, unfortunately, it turned out that this man went from printing to printing press and asked for such a pattern to be made for him. That's what the press people witnessed. So we also discovered things that were not expected to be revealed. We discovered that there was a heterland robbery, and I will show you once again what the roof of that facility that was actually serving was supposed to be for the accommodation of disabled children. One million and 200,000 euros of national money have been spent on it, and today it looks like this and nobody's guilty. It's nobody's fault, it's just this facility for the housing of disabled children looks like this, and it's spent a million and 200,000 euros of state money. Then you tell me if it's normal, natural, whether it's fair and whether this is a picture and an opportunity for Serbia to look into the future. Is this what we should vote for? Is this the future that we are now being recycled with? I don't think so. That's why police will continue to fight corruption and crime, much harder than ever. I'm sorry that the previous authorities didn't have the courage, the strength, the political leadership, whatever, the responsibility, the fear of involvement in the same affair, didn't want to bring in people suspected of the most serious acts of corruption. This power can do it. It's no problem to arrest someone from the SNS and a member of the board and MPs, anyone suspected of committing a serious crime. How many people will be arrested in the day, the prosecution and the police decide. These people estimate when it's most comprehensive, when it's safest for the perpetrators of that arrest, how it's done at what point and why, they should continue to do so. After all, it's like this story about uniforms behind the Home Secretary. Excuse me, please, from the whole story of people who are accused of the most serious crimes that have destroyed our future, the question is why in one day, or when behind the Home Secretary are people in police uniforms, they should probably stand as ballerinas or I don't know what. Why are they in uniform? Look what the streets of Paris look like. On the streets of Paris are people in uniforms, tanks, automatic weapons, and that's what the streets of Paris look like. Look next to the Eiffel Tower, what security of the Eiffel Tower looks like because of fear of terrorism. These people pulled the army and the police out on the street to protect their people and didn't ask – excuse me, if we should be; they were supposed to put them in some white coats, maybe that would be better for people to look at. Look at what the Minister of Crimea conferences look like when people show up behind it, not with long pipes, but with armored vehicles. Look at what conferences look like, look at what it looks like in London in front of the parliament situation, at any moment, back many years. You can't go through with people with automatic weapons because people who have estimated that their security aspects have been compromised have allocated enough power and such strength to do so. There's police behind the police minister. Who was prevented from asking a question, anytime at any time by any minister? Any journalist can set up whatever he wants, whatever comes to mind. I see by the lyrics, even about me, that they were particularly concerned and prevented from writing anything in their head and from writing. It's a journalist's job. Our job is to do our job and answer. As far as I'm concerned, we will continue to strengthen all the mechanisms and internal control and, of course, all those other mechanisms that don't happen to us police and police departments are doing their job. As far as the polygraph is concerned, I can see that there is still a fascination with the polygraph, but as far as the MUP is concerned, in accordance with the law, we will continue to apply this mechanism, just as all European police are doing, especially the American FBA that is applying it, and that is what the director of the FBA, Mr. Kami, told me when he was here visiting and told me what results and how they are applying it to both labour relations and staff control every year. They ask them very simple questions – do you work for foreign services, do you co-operate with organised crime groups, do you take money for what you do and do you share information you learn with someone else, do you leak that information to any outsider? Why would any cop be afraid to answer those questions? We don't ask him anything from his private life. We ask him if he's honest, whether he's working with criminals and whether he's leaking information from anyone on the outside. If the answers are no, not that there's nothing to be afraid of, but that he should be proud of working in the unit, and there's a small number of jobs that a polygraph is used for, to build a working relationship should be proud of working among elites, among those who fight corruption and crime the most. After all, since I was interior minister, the largest number of executives have been people who spent 15, 20, 25 years in the police force. These are the people that exist in the system. I didn't bring in some people. I don't know where I came from. I brought to the executive post of people who've already been to the police. Those who raised their predecessors, I promoted them by a step or two, and these people today are conducting the most serious actions. After all, the D.A. is leading these investigations. The prosecution doesn't have to conduct any investigations, it can reject everything and say – we won't participate in this, stop investigating and the police can't do anything at all. If the D.A. won't do it, we can't run an investigation. But if the D.A. wants to, and if he thinks there's enough evidence or enough evidence to keep the investigation going, the police will bring that investigation to an end. I'm sorry we haven't discovered everything yet, but in terms of what I found and what I saw from 2008 to 2012, I think we'll have a lot of work to do, until we say that Serbia is free from corruption and crime, even from that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46420	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: I answer the word. ) Mrs. Vuchkovic, on what basis? (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. Just tell me the basics so I can give you my word? (Nataša Vučković, from the city: The mention of DS. ) Minister Stefanovic spoke only about the promotion of police and the abuse of former authorities, do you think you have the right to replication? (Nataša Vučković, from town: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46421	So the DS is very committed to fighting corruption and fighting organised crime, and you ministers know it. If it wasn't for the law we passed in 2009, such as Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. It wouldn't be possible in time to start your action too, so-called. the fight against corruption. You didn't say, you say, that there was a coup, but then what was the minister's reason, that you used it that way, brought to the public so many people, who are doing their job fairly, who, by our deep conviction and conviction of a vast number of citizens, have been abused for the show since the press conference. It was a directed performance that had a certain political effect. When you say today that the streets of Paris are full of police representatives, the gendarmes of France, etc., so to speak, they do their job. Their function is to protect the safety of people, property, etc. They're doing their job with it. What were they doing at your press conference? The comparison you make with the streets of Paris assures me that the Ministers don't understand enough difference between what are the real functions of the police and what is the abuse of police and public order authorities. And it's not up to us, but it's not up to you either, whether you like the results of some investigations or not. So, it is not the goal of bringing them in, the goal is to fight corruption, eradicate corruption for which both general and special measures are used to do so, and, of course, if necessary, to bring people into custody for so long, that after all citizens are paying out of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46422	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. Our citizens like to see the police, street security, but someone doesn't. Mr. Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46423	As far as detention is concerned, the court decides. The judge for the previous proceedings decides whether or not he will be in custody, the police have no role to play in this. At the prosecution's request, the court decides. So, if anyone and as long as they're in custody, you're going to have to ask the judge. That's not what we're wondering. As for all other activities, I believe that when the interior minister presents members of the police, members of the police are proud of it. I always speak, and I want to point out the good work of all police officers when they're with me and at press conferences, in floods and in saving people, in every situation. Whether people like it and whether people support it or think otherwise, we will soon have a chance to check it out, so citizens in Vojvodina and Belgrade and other towns, the municipalities of Serbia, will tell whether they like it, whether they think this government has done its job well, whether they want the policy represented by Aleksandar Vukic or whether they want the policy represented by Bojan Pajtic, for example. Then they'll define nicely what it is that they support or don't support and that's the best possible way then, citizens are still the best judges. They will want to tell us if they want to see these pictures spent a million and a half euros and hollow roofs, which were carried out by people who have not had any honor or want progress, better Serbia and the future for all of us. So, I think that's something the election will show, and then we'll see what the citizens have decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46424	I thank Minister Stefanovic. (Dear Shutanovac, from the city: I answer the word.) Mr. Sutanovac, on what basis? (Dear Sutanovac, from the site: Based on the mention of Bojan Pajtic. ) Minister Stefanovic spoke only of the abuses that took place during the former government, but he did not in any way give you the opportunity to replicate, only if you recognize yourself there. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46425	Mr Becicu, you are the only one in this room who has not heard that Minister Stefanovic mentioned the name and last name of DS and the province government of Vojvodina. I didn't recognize myself in his name or in his business, because he does another job compared to the one I did. Mr Stefanovic, you said earlier that you read the reports of the European Commission which, you say, were terrible. How, then, did Serbia become an EU candidate? Do you know how you got the start of the negotiations? By putting on a ramp in Kosovo, introducing customs, separating our people from the queen, signing the Brussels Agreement, and accepting practically that Kosovo is in the status it is currently in. We didn't want it, we didn't even do it. On the other hand, you talked about how DS had an impact on the media and how some people made headlines. One of the media owners, the editor-in-chief, said publicly that he was at the SNS election headquarters in the election campaign, accused you, and not only him, but also former SNS member, honourable MP Sasa Mirkovic of the unprecedented pressure on the media by the executive government, so the names were ordered by more ministers, even the prime minister. So, Mr. Stefanovic, let me remind you of something else. I'm sorry, I don't get a chance to sit down with you on some TV show, and you guys had a chance to sit down with me on the TV show while I was the Secretary of Defense. I wasn't afraid to talk to you, like you're afraid to talk to us in the media presence. So, I'll visit you several times, both with you and with Mr. Wolf, I've given you a chance to exchange arguments on the media. You get away from it. You don't have the courage...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46426	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46427	You have Mr. Becic here who...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46428	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46429	... Ten seconds ago, he takes away his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46430	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Time's up. I've heard very well about why the Prime Minister was mentioned for robbing children with special needs, but I don't think you should answer for it and defend Mr. Pajtic. That's why I thought you didn't have the conditions for replication, because what was done to those kids is for every conviction, so I don't think it's right for you to answer on that basis. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46431	I'll remind people of a situation that we in Belgrade know well. It was, in fact, a TV Studio B. In the period from 2008 to 2012, I, like today, served as president of the Belgrade Committee of SNS and wonders, except in mandatory presentations for the 2012 elections, from 2008 to 2012, was unable to give a statement of good weather at Study B, not to guest, to invite me to give a statement, in television paid by all citizens of Belgrade through the City Assembly, not one single second, not one single one. We were sitting with representatives of the then government in the election campaign. Well, you know, it would be a little unnatural to organize round tables without anyone from the opposition. Today, opposition representatives have much more space in certain media. I took the analysis to see what the two largest parties were represented, one of the largest opposition and one of the largest rulings, in the period from 2012 to 2015. Do it, don't let me tell you, you'll say it one way or the other. Look at the representation in certain media, in all of the picture, and how it is represented. It can't be measured from 2008 to 2012, but it can't be measured. We couldn't get closer to the more serious media then, nor could we get closer. Having more power to go from house to house, having more power to convince people, is now a matter of our political strength and skill, but in the media we couldn't hear each other. And we're so scared, and then we're scared. Here we shake, we don't sleep at night. And that's why we can't wait to see who was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46432	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46433	In favour of your claims, Mr. Stefanovic, I'll add a few more things. Namely, now that I'm brushing my dick that the great anti-corruption fighters, you know, haven't adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy since 2010. So much fighting corruption was their primary. It wasn't their primary, it was the generators of the same corruption. On the other hand, when it comes to freedom of the media, someone tells us and calls on one of the MPs here. I refer to the time when they arrested media owners for critical texts about the former government. They arrested media owners. What happened then? What was the relationship to the media and the freedom of the media then? Is anyone in Serbia now because of the critical text, because of the disgusting text about Alexander Vukic and SNS, is the dark view of him shown? No, it's not. No, it's not. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Yes, how is it not?) You arrested media owners in Serbia, and now you say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46434	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46435	... And now you're talking about some things and a bad relationship with the media, where they can write whatever they want and whatever they want. But on the other hand, I have here some documents relating to the company "Goraprom International" owned by Mr. Goran Sutanovac, a close relative here as a national MP, so I have papers on how the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia defined the funds, imagine, 120 million dinars, at some interest of 2.5% a year, all during the period when the state owed 7%, 8%, to close relatives of the minister, then ministers, gave loans of 2.5%. The question is whether it ended up in the freezers and where it was meant to build a freezer or whether it ended up settling some other obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46436	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46437	We're well alive as we were until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46438	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not your name or name that's mentioned, it's your cousin. Is that why you consider yourself entitled to a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46439	Is it possible to ask me if I can get a replica when my uncle's brother is mentioned? Yes, Goran Sutanovac is my uncle's brother. Dear colleague Babić, I have very little communication with him, with my uncle's brother I have very little communication. He was a member of another party. What you're saying, it all stands, but it has nothing to do with me. I'm telling you, people, it has nothing to do with me. Well, behind you is my cousin, behind you, in your MP group is my cousin, as close as Goran Sutanovac. Well, why don't you call on him, president of a assembly committee. Well, he got rank in the military, even got money from the Department of Defense when he sued the Ministry. Gentlemen, I don't think I see what you're hitting on the family first. Not even the mob's family, criminals don't hit. If there's anything that makes the man concerned guilty, judge him. Judge him, Mr. Granny. I would be ashamed to mention any of your relatives, you understand, to be ashamed here in front of all MPs, as well as to the public of Serbia, to mention any relative, any member of the Parliament present here. But you're a shameless, shameless man. There are no limits for you. I'm an only child, Mr. Granny. I don't have a brother or a sister. I'm not responsible for anyone but my children. It's a shame that you put a man who's six years older than me, with whom I have very bad, very small contacts, in the context of abuse from me, and I've never invited anyone to the Development Fund, nor do I know those people who worked there. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46440	Please, Mr. Sutanovac... The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr. Sutanovac's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46441	Mr. Becic, I'm an only child. Mr. Becic, I've got a lot of brothers and sisters and I'm in good contact with everyone and I'm in good relations and I'm proud. I'd be ashamed to get up and say I have an uncle's brother, I'm not in good relations with him, and I'm not in touch with him. Well, who are you going to be in good relations with if you're not with your relatives, your brothers and sisters, if you're not in good relations? Well, who are you to be in good relations with, because you're in a party where you're all in a fight, because you're in a party where no one thinks well with anyone and no one wants you well. But at least keep it cousinly, godfatherly. Oh, yes, and you've ruined the godmother. It's okay. On the other hand, this was a trick question, and all of this just now I didn't bring out me and I didn't do it, and I didn't investigate. They've been investigating the press. We have now heard from Mr. Sutanovec that the journalists who worked on the case, who published this in 2010 and 2011, are the best, the shameless, the mob. All those accusations that Mr Sutanovac had just referred to me refer to the media in Serbia, the media that investigated the case, found and published. Now, that's the relationship between the former government and the former regime to the media. That's the freedom of the media where media owners were arrested. That's how they dealt with people who don't think like them. I will continue with my relatives, with my brothers and sisters, with all those good people I know, with my best men, no matter what they think or think differently, always be in good relationships and I will try to get those good relationships and propagate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46442	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46443	I invite you to make peace with your brother. Letting him get 120 million dinars is not so bad. It's scarier that you and your cousins aren't in good relationships.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46444	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46445	If you're not in good relations with your best friends and best friends, I can understand that, but with your cousins, don't do that. That's bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46446	Mr. Babic, sometimes it doesn't matter if you're with someone good or not, but if you have a name that causes fear, it's important enough. Thank you. The word is by MP Momir Stojanovic, a replica of Mr Sutanovac's presentation. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? You mentioned Mr. Sutanovac to your cousin Mr. Stojanović. I see he's still looking for a line and he's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46447	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've been put into this debate by chance. It is true that Mr. Sutanovac is my brother from my aunt and I do not give up my brothers, even if I do not share the same system of values as they do. What I have to say and what I've reported for, I think it's a shame to mention my name in the context of suing the Department of Defense for illegal retirement. Did the president of Mr. Sutanovac's party and the government that was then, who retired me in 45 years of life, as Mr. Sutanovac knows, with a great military career and all the grades of 5.00 and two extraordinary improvements and with everything, as the youngest general of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, and only because I opposed the collapse of the defence system... Now, instead of taking the blame and the responsibility of those who made such a crazy decision, which is why the court has annulled it, so this state had to pay me with neither the blame nor the obligation to pay me the cash due to their error, and it had to charge them for their wrong decisions, now it's mentioned in some context and I'm comparing it with some brother from an uncle who took a 2.5% interest loan. I think we'd have to admit our own responsibility, and the responsibility of that authority is, and that's what the court found, that I was illegally retired as the youngest general, which Mr. Sutanovac knows, with a brilliant, brilliant career.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46448	I thank you, General. You weren't alike at that time. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica of Mr Stojanovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46449	I don't know why my colleague Stojanovic is linking DS to his retirement. He retired at a time when we were the opposition. Also, an esteemed colleague, here people can stand up and say, yes, you became a general at the time of DS when Dragan Sutanovac was influential, so you made progress in the army, so you got those fives, so it was all like that. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Nepotism. Yes, yes, yes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46450	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't brag about these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46451	Just because I don't have daily communication with my family doesn't mean I give her up and I'm embarrassed. On the contrary, my family is very proud that Momir Stojanovic became the general first in our family. That you have no dilemma at all. In the meantime, becoming politically active, it's something else entirely. The same thing applies to every one of my cousins and my brother. Mr. Babiæ, the difference between me and you is that when the journalists explored some "Holy Trifun", if I'm not mistaken, the hotel in Vranjska Banja and attacked you and your mother to hold it, found your phone number, found your email number, never occurred to me to mention it in the Assembly. I would be ashamed and ashamed to mention anyone's mother, brother, sister, child, because it was never the subject of my interest, nor the courtesy of the Members of Parliament. I repeat again, no matter how different political attitudes we are, my entire family is proud that we won the first general in the family and not just him, and his brother was a colonel in the police department, you know, and his niece in the police is the same officer in the gendarme, so you know. So no one's ever been prosecuted in our family, no one's ever been a thief, a criminal. Here you go, Momir, get up and say it, get up and say it. So, gentlemen, the theme is that families don't even touch in movies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46452	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't privatise the Assembly in such a way that you talk about families, about the successes of some families, whether the proud family of General Stojanovic, where I'm absolutely sure she's proud or proud of you, I think she's prouder of General Stojanovic, so don't politicize these family relations. Let's get back to the subject. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46453	From what we've heard, I can only conclude that the whole family is placed in the state administration. All work for the state and all receive salaries from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and those who receive salaries in private companies receive 120 million dinars of credit. Anyway, everyone's based on the state and the state budget. Nice. Fine. This is a book example of nepotism. We're separated from a lot of things, the previous speaker and me, Mr. Becic. It also separates me from the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency did not file a criminal report against me, because I did not forget to report that pasture on Vrakar, where a magnificent building came out, all from the minister's salary. It also separates us from the fact that, let's say, I finished the same college in twice as much time as I needed a previous speaker. There's a lot that separates us, Mr. Becic, and I'm very proud of those differences. I'm proud that none of my family, my family got a job and works for the state, but they work and live the lives of average and normal citizens, as they lived until three years ago... Where does your wife work? For those who earn, my wife has been working as a teacher for the last 18 years, as did her parents, who retired to get her started. So, I haven't had these extraordinary promotions, pride on you I don't know who, cousins, nephews, everything in the police, everything in the state administration, everything on state mangers. I'm not and I don't have any brothers I've given 120 million dinars, 2.5% interest, through the Development Fund. These are the things that separate us, separate us, and I'm very proud of those differences, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46454	Another important difference, Mr. Granny, you have a certificate. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46455	Let's get back to the law that's on the agenda, but for the public's sake, I have to say, that I don't get the impression that I became a general because I had Mr. Sutanovec as a relative. You know, in my military career, I've had 16 transfers, 16 superiors graded me, and an adequate setup, an internship on all duties, from supporters to generals, you'll agree, there's a lot of rank. If 16 people rated by 5.00, I believe I wasn't close to anyone, I was professionally doing my job. He knows Mr. Sutanovac that I have long met all the conditions for a promotion to the rank of generals, but since I belong to insubordination generals, I became when I became, and again I became the youngest. As for the family that works, to explain to Mr. Babic, my close relatives work for a long, long time, some in the gendarmes in many units, and as for checks and similarities, you know, I'm the chairman of the Assembly Security Control Committee. I've been checked a thousand times in my life, and now they've been checking me for access to the "state secret" data, and I've been certified, and others have said that my whole family is completely clean and good citizens of this country. I have nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46456	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Stojanovic's presentation. (Employment of the Democratic Party MPs. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46457	I'll be very brief, Mr. Vienna. Mr. Stojanovic is the chairman of the Security Control Committee and Mr. Momo Stojanovic knows that, like you, Mr. Becic, we have a certificate for access to information of public importance, but I am interested, Mr. Becic, and this is how I call on Mr. Stojanovic to just tell us who from the Committee and why there is no certification.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46458	Mr. Babiæ, I beg you, I have broken it now to get the word, because under Article 104, you have no right to get the word, but I did think that the polemic that was led between you, Sutanovec and Mr. Stojanović to clarify and put an end to it. You need to look into what Mr. Stojanović said, too, but you're headed in another direction and I had to interrupt you. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46459	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to begin by welcoming the team of the Ministry of the Interior, which I see the minister has strengthened the new Secretary of State, Mrs Jan Ljubicic, who I must say, that her work as Secretary-General of the Assembly is missing a lot of professionalism here. But it certainly strengthened the interior ministry's team, and I'm sure it will be extremely pleased with its work, as we have been. We've come a long way from the subject of the agenda here, we've been able to hear some family relations that we didn't know anything about where the employee is, so I'd suggest we go back to discussing the laws that are on the agenda, which is the draft law on police, the draft law on public gathering and the draft law on public order and peace. So there are three new draft laws, no proposals for amending and supplementing existing laws, so they bring a lot of innovation and have one more comprehensive and modern approach to resolving the issue of the interior ministry's work. I would refer to several important segments that I saw in the Bill of Police. What is particularly imposed in this bill is the professionalisation of the Ministry of the Interior. We see that the conditions for establishing a working relationship are tightened and it is also very important and good that it is put in place to monitor and control that the working relationship does not result in those conditions that were necessary in the design, that they are broken, so let's say when someone in employment, both in the state administration, in this case the Ministry of the Interior, having to bring about confirmation that he is not convicted, certainly if he comes into the course of his career to make a mistake about the laws, it is very important that this is resolved in a way that this cannot be the case and in such cases he cannot continue his professional career in the Ministry of the Interior. Also prescribed are the conditions for career progress, which are related to the results of employee work and annual evaluations based on clear criteria. We see here that this bill has actually reduced the powers of the minister, which we are not often in a position to see that some minister himself suggests that his powers are being reduced, so that those criticisms I have heard about some concerns about this law, that there is no abuse of police for party purposes, may be these very concerns about some of them known examples from the past, but precisely this bill shows that SNS and the Ministry of Interior, headed by Minister Stefanovic, in any case do not have the same intensity to use police for party purposes. We now see that the paper in the law is that the minister will no longer be able to improve employees, as well as to conduct certain investigative procedures without the prosecution, as was possible so far. The internal control sector now has new powers which gives it full capacity to fight corruption, integrity tests have been introduced, as well as the obligation to deposit property records of all the managers in the interior ministry, which is an important paper adopted by this law. I think it's very important to point out that the goal of this paper is to root out corruption in the MUP itself. We are aware that there are certain individuals who are prone to corruption at the Ministry of the Interior, but certainly that the vast majority of employees are honest and honest people and we must not allow some individuals to discredit the work of the entire ministry. It is therefore very important that the internal control sector is working in the right way. The paper in this law is also the creation of a sector for international co-operation and European affairs, which is very important, especially in this period in which we are now, where on the one hand we are committed to harmonising our legislation with the EU and also on the other hand, due to the immigrant waves affecting the entire region, it is very important that one of these sectors was formed, too, the Ministry of Interior in 2015 had very significant results on this plan. We have seen that the European Commission has also given positive estimates for the action plan for Chapter 24, as regards the work of the Ministry of the Interior. The way the interior ministry faced the problem of the migrant crisis is indeed commendable, given that more than 600,000 migrants have crossed our country without any incident with the domestic population being recorded, neither of the citizens of Serbia felt threatened at any time. We have seen numerous cases in some other countries that have had such problems. I think that this is also a great credit for the good co-operation that the Ministry of the Interior has achieved with the countries of the region, because without co-operation on the international agenda in this segment, it is not possible to carry out these tasks in the best way. What I also want to point out is the proposal for a police law also foresees a new police act in the event of domestic violence. In the event that domestic violence has been reported, police officers are obliged to immediately take the necessary measures and actions in accordance with the law to prevent further violence in order to avoid serious physical harm or even fatal outcomes. This is very important, given that there is no legal basis in the existing legal framework for taking a measure of distance from violence, and we have ratified an Istanbul Convention that provides for a series of measures on this matter and I think it is very important for our country to apply this Austrian model, which provides for the distance of the bully from the apartment. We are also aware that there have been some cases and we have recently been informed of this through public information means, that some individuals at the Ministry of the Interior have also been prone to domestic violence and in order to avoid the protection of colleagues in such cases, it is very important to find the right mechanism to eradicate this phenomenon. About the other laws that are on the agenda, I wouldn't look back now, given that there's been a lot of talk about it. What I would like to praise is that during the debate on the Law on Public Gathering, when the Committees on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, organised a meeting with Simeon, with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter and NGOs. The vast majority of the proposals that were then made that were adopted by internal affairs, which is a clear will to find a legal solution, best for our society. In the end, I would like to say something else, which is when I was getting ready to discuss these laws, I found some information about the work of the Ministry of the Interior, which is actually the results of your work, which I think is the most valuable, statistics are inexorable, best showing how devoted someone was or not to his work. I'm just going to mention a few things, so from May 2014 to November 2015, general crime was reduced by 11.1%, property crime by 17%, reduced crimes against life and bodies by 9.7%, and by about a quarter the number of murders. In the last year and a half, police have seized about 4.2 tons of narcotics and three times as many intoxicating drugs in pieces, as well as twice as many heroines. I think this is some data that can't be found so easily in our means of public information that actually places some other information, and most often we can listen to criticisms that are most likely aimed at discrediting the work of both the police and the minister, but certainly the results of the work are the only court on the work of each of us, not just the ministry, but each of us sitting here and representing the citizens of Serbia, and precisely the results of the MUP's work are something that the minister can praise. I'd just like to say that we've heard the objections as to why the minister organized a press conference where the members of the MUP were around him. I really can't understand that kind of criticism because all those who haven't sinned about the law shouldn't feel any threat when they see members of the MUP in uniform, but they should feel safe and that's how I saw it as a message of security for all Serbian citizens, so those who feel insecure probably know why they feel that way. I would just like to tell the minister to keep working in that direction and to achieve such good results for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46460	I thank Mrs. Djurovic. I thank you for supporting me in that citizens like to see our police, especially in new uniforms. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, for the first time in 2016. It's an honor. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the distinguished Prime Ministers, as I understood the Prime Minister's resignation yesterday, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Stefanovic, the distinguished guests and guests from the MUP, the respected Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečić, are three words which, I think, exactly describe the draft law on police respected gentlemen. Minister Stefanovic, these are the following words – inaccuracy, arbitration and intransparency respected by the gentleman and I, Minister Stefanovic, as I have done every time in 673 speeches as I held them in 2015 and today I will offer an argument for this position. Here, inaccurately, Minister Stefanovic, concerns for example the name of this bill, that was my observation, but also the observation of the Citizens' Protector, but also the observation of the guest who was here today to follow on behalf of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy. We all claim, Minister Stefanovic, that you have appointed this proposal as a bill on police, which would mean that the content of this law should concern only the police, and I have noticed that in this bill we have some solutions concerning the organisation and functioning of the MUP. So, some things that are wider than what the police are. For me, Minister Stefanovic is the issue of inaccuracy, and the inaccuracy of gentlemen respected, we are here in the Assembly, always concerned with the question about, Mr Stefanovic, the most important principle on which our Constitution rests, and that is the rule of law. If we do not have accuracy in the draft laws we question the rule of law, that is one argument to Mr Stefanovic. I said one word that we could enter the Bill of Police is arbitration. You are Minister Stefanovic, spending a lot of time today in the debate here to explain that the minister is not given great authority by this bill and given to Minister Stefanovic. Here are many places -- the minister prescribes, the minister determines, the minister decides in art. 4, 9, 38, 46, 129, 168, 186, 233. Honored gentlemen, well, Minister Stefanovic, when the bill is written, we should imagine ourselves in the role of the other, for example in the role of the opposition rather than writing a law for ourselves, or Minister Stefanovic, we have proposed that in some places where it is prescribed that the minister determines that the minister decides to do so by the ministry. Well, accept these amendments to Minister Stefanovic, well, to assure us that indeed your intention regarding the content of this bill is the best possible. It's a gentleman's argument regarding arbitration, and here it is, regarding intransparency. Minister Stefanovic, in article 149, writes in attitude 1 – the Director of Police sets up the Government for five years not a proposal for a minister etc. Our proposal, gentlemen, is that this position is replaced by the following content -- the Director of Police puts the government at five years on the proposal of a commission made by the minister, two members from the NGO sector and two members from the ministry, etc. Mr. Stefanovic, next to you, two seats from you sits as police director, Mr. Rebic. I would be very interested to hear – for example, if we imagine that Mr. Rebic would be a candidate for the Director of Police, would it be better for him, as a man who has been working in the police for a long time, to decide who will become the Director of the Police, on the basis of a proposal from the Minister or Government, on the basis of a proposal from such a composed commission? I'm sorry Mr. Rebic doesn't have the right to speak, but I believe that one professional, one serious man, would certainly be better off with this solution, Minister Stefanovic. Here, tell me now if you think so. If you agree, accept that amendment as well. Don't hesitate, Minister Stefanovic. We from the New Party are otherwise champions of the number of amendments accepted in this assembly of the National Assembly and not only that, but also champions of Serbian Parliamentism, gentlemen. I think, Minister Stefanovic, that if we stick to the fact that the key words for understanding this bill are inaccuracy, arbitration, and intransparency, that it is a testimony about the government's anti-reform course. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46462	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46463	Shall I continue, Mr. Vienna?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46464	You'd better not even talk. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46465	What I can tell you is that this law, as well as police work, will mark hard work, promotion, procedure and the fight against crime and corruption. It is a sure thing that may not have been so prominent in some previous period, but in this term when I am minister, as long as I am minister, it will be the priorities of police work. As far as this law is concerned, the law deals most with police work. Whether, from time to time, some other terms are mentioned that explain how certain procedures are regulated, and related to police work, such as rewarding and funding, etc., of course, will be found in the law. Here you have a hundred places mentioned the Code of Criminal Procedure. Imagine we called it the police law and the criminal code. That would be nakaradic. We're also talking about those relationships with other laws and relationships with other terms that exist, but we had a dilemma about whether we should call it a police law or a law on internal affairs, and that was the first dilemma. Since we could come here to prescribe in a special way the position of civil servants and deputies, and in such a way we desave the law that already exists and regulates this area, we decided that the law bears the name – the law on police because it essentially defines the role and position of the police and now we have for the first time defined what the police are. So far, when you look at all the legal solutions, you had no definition of what the police were. We have it today. What is important here, for example, is that the Director of Police appoints the Government for five years on a proposal from the Minister under the public competition, in a way that provides for rules on working relations that apply to the ministry. So, the lists that apply to the ministry which are not only contained in this law, but also in the law, the director is a civil servant in office, so Mr. Rebić can today be the performer of the duty without even providing for a "lex specialis" because it is provided for by the Law on civil servants and tenants and you have a regulation that is applied accordingly. So, as far as this law is concerned, certainly at the end of a two-degree mechanism, you have even in this case three-stage, you have a commission that chooses candidates and proposes all three of the best or how many, five best candidates, the minister, has the right to choose the best candidate, to propose it to the government, but the government has no obligation to adopt it. The government can refuse. The government doesn't have to choose him. We have a system that guarantees control. The police are not in the right sense an independent organ. It is part of the executive government and belongs to the MUP that is part of the government. So, for that reason, let's pick the director of law enforcement, I don't know, Eskimo, or I don't know what, so let's run the police on how they think they're supposed to run it. But then how can we guarantee that citizens who went out and supported someone and said, "We want this policy to be implemented?" The director is a professional, but he has to carry out a vision of the minister, so not operational command, but a vision of the minister in terms of police reform. Imagine a minister and director who would disagree and resist each other in carrying out their duties. Then what could the minister do? You give a warrant and you say - we want to lower the number of vehicles used in the Ministry, to reduce the number of miles traveled for these personal needs, i.e. by personal duty, fuel consumption, to increase expenditure where it takes more for uniforms, equipment, etc., and the director who does not want to implement it or knowingly obstruct it. In that case, there is no co-operation, and the system would be brought to a senseless level. So, let's make a system where there's no minister, so the director should be directly subordinated to the government and that's it. He doesn't have a minister above him. But eventually, it comes down to the same thing, because you're still going to have a political factor that has to give it guidance for work, which is normal. It's civilian control. It's the system we wanted. Once upon a time, military generals were defence ministers. The Secretary of Defense was a general who runs the army. When we introduced a civilian control system, then a civilian person became a minister, the Chief of Staff is a military officer who commands the military, the minister commands the entire Department of Defense and is also in the police. The director manages the police, or manages the Police Directorate, and the minister provides guidance for work that is in line with this. So I realize that there are certain disagreements and different sightings and that's normal, natural, and it's good to debate. You know, in these discussions in parliament, I changed a lot of things as Minister in the laws that I proposed, because I felt that the solutions that MPs proposed to me were better, people from NGOs, from the sector, and from different, from the options of position and opposition. There were, of course, solutions that were more fun for the people than they were really serious, but it's a matter of the MP that he's been experiencing his job and how he wants to propose. Maybe they see that solution as the best possible. In any case, I am trying to make everything I think is good for the police and for the system, and making sure that the police are both more efficient and more equipped and powerful, to improve this so that the citizens of Serbia have one mechanism, because the police are indeed a mechanism for the citizens of Serbia. When you look at the fact that we had, say, in 2015 over 100,000 meetings that the police provided without more serious disturbances to public order and peace, it shows how many people on the daily level are dealing with. I'll give you just one piece of information. In Belgrade, for example, in 1989, we had just over 9,000 officers, and today we have seven and a half thousand. Since 1989, Belgrade, according to its complexity, has agreed on various challenges from the world level. So, we need to redefine and the number of people that are in place, I'm trying to make sure that the number of people in uniforms, who are on operational tasks, are growing in the criminal police, and that the number of people in the systems in which there is no need for a large number of employees. But all in all, it's something that I've often pointed out, the MUP has the need to in certain parts of Serbia, because there may be some parts of Serbia where there may be too many people because that population has dramatically decreased in the previous 20-30 years, that we have in some parts of the natural outflow. We need to increase the number of people in some parts of Serbia, we need to change the organisation, and that is why we are doing it. I think this law will help us to have more quality relations within the Ministry, and as far as the police themselves are concerned, I am convinced that whoever is the director of the police will be managed in a serious and responsible manner. I have confidence in Mr. Rebić, we cooperated, and I first met him when he became chief of the Traffic Police Department, and that's where he made good results. It turns out it's a serious professional. It's about a man who's 24 and a half years in the police force, unless I'm wrong. So he's someone who's devoted his life to this call. Of course, such people should and should be promoted and we should try to make sure that these people who are behind me here today, who are doing their job completely professionally and who have participated in the making of the law, and I'm not sure who is more, when they see each other, grabbed each other's heads, because this is one 50th version of the law that we've been doing, but it has shown that we've been hearing about inside and outside advice, and the non-governmental sector, and professionals, and various associations, and at the end of the EU that we're trying to do, that we've all tried to get to something that works, that we're not making a law that Frankenstein and it's made up of all sorts of wishes and will, and then these people in blue have to do it, and we're all saying, we're super-we've passed a law that they can're not. Then tomorrow morning they have a problem. I've tried to ask them, and my primary question is how to achieve desire, goal, what the Constitution says, what we need to fulfill, and that you can do it on the ground, that it's doable. Then we came to what I think is an optimal solution for us at this point. Of course it's all a time-flow test. We will see, of course, whether it brings better and more professionalisation of police in Serbia. I believe it brings and believes that we will have a more effective system after this law is passed. After all, we have restrictions on this law, namely a more restrictive attitude towards politics and the minister. That's why we're going to have a improvement within the police force. Of course, it's important that all the people in the police force see it that way. The more serious they are in accepting their job and all these provisions they write here, the safer the citizens of Serbia will be. Our system has over 30,000 police officers, on shifts, of course. So they're not all 30,000 on duty at all times, but their role is something we can't replace, none of us individually, nor is it possible for any individual to look at and predict all that they need to do in one day. That's why there's a system. If they do their job well, then we don't have a problem. We provide this with quality selection of frames, quality reception in working relationships, education, advancement and then we are safe. Then we know that the whole system rests and works. Who will be the minister is less important, but it is important that the minister understands the needs of the system. If he could understand the cops, he'd have to spend some time with them, understand what their needs are, and what they look like one day on Kozjak, in the mud, in the mud, in the trench, in the bow, in the sight, to understand at least in one day what it looks like, that when the demand for enhanced food arrives, for more money, he'd try to honor these people first. It's my view of the whole situation. Anyway, I'll look at all the amendments. Of course, about 470 amendments to all three laws have been filed. We'll look at it until the day the amendments are discussed. Everything we think will be good for changing this law we will accept as always. I think I'm one of the ministers who accepted 30, 40, 50% of the amendments wherever I thought it was good. Of course, where I think they don't fix or fix the important text of the law, we won't accept them, and I think that's just fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46466	I thank Minister Stefanovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46467	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a very important law ahead of us, for the simple reason that no one, here how many years ago, seems to me 10 or 11, no one has had the courage to deal with this to solve certain things in the police. First of all, I'd like to congratulate the Minister of the Interior for going to that mud that existed there to clean up. Of course, there's no point in reporting that he would say something or submit an amendment to put it on, it's deleted. This is a very important law for us because simply citizens demand to be safe and you have to pass an adequate law on the police that primarily monitors some of the currents that are happening in the world. I can say it's really a law that very precisely emphasizes police jurisdiction. Someone when they say - a minister is given powers like this or something, I have to say, Mr. Minister, if some people were to start a car project like that, they'd tell you that something is wrong with you, since you're passing a law where you deny yourself authority. You've simply erased yourself from the power you had here and passed it on to the Director of Police first. I don't understand how anyone can avoid a minister in a law like this, since police are part of the MUP, only if we want to abolish the interior minister or maybe put someone in the NGO sector to be the interior minister. Maybe it's a logic, I'm talking about some things that concern some seriousness, and I think what you've done is a good example of how someone who's a direct representative of the executive authority disowns their powers in favour of the profession. So, you're giving certain powers to a police director who's essentially in charge of police work. I remember, Mr. Minister, when you became a minister you had this ungrateful honor to defend a report that came a month straight from your ministry, and you didn't, nor did your cabinet, make it up, you had to defend it and now in one part especially in the drug confiscation, it was completely amazing to me, I remembered – the seizure of narcotics in the last three months, I think the three-month report was a few grams, something like two grams. After three months when your cabinet put together a report then we really had one brilliant result, a fierce fight against drug dealers started in this country and it angered every praise. Why am I telling you this? Because what you're introducing here, this career advancement, and you're avoiding that variant that a direct executive can advance you rather than have to pass the tests, take the exam, and then, of course, you're still being additionally selected in the competition, and then it's only then that you're being evaluated to make progress, and that's a very good thing. Why? Because people started to understand, and now I'm telling you without a joke, like a serious organized criminal group, unfortunately, where a direct manager chooses a couple of his listeners and they make a good group and start doing business with criminals in the city. That's why we had a situation where we had two grams of narcotics in Belgrade where, unfortunately, on every corner, you had the opportunity to buy some narcotics, and we had two grams of seizures. What you started, an incredible action where really people who are a few kilos under arrest are something that's really good because we have to get the drugs off the street. This drug fight, I urge it to continue, given that it is a terrible monster for our youth and I believe that it will certainly continue. I must commend the law itself first because it received great commendation from international institutions. They don't give that kind of commendation, they're very rigid, especially with such laws as security. They are extremely rigid in any praise, and when they commend you, it means that you really did something right. The law has 259 members, I don't remember anyone taking this seriously. I can only congratulate you on this, and I'm going to vote honestly for that. I need to refer to the Law of Public Order and Peace. First, all the praise for this restriction on the throwing of firecrackers, flammable matter, etc. Because we really became a society where the most normal thing seems to be tossing on the street a cannon strike, and no matter how scared someone might be and there's a problem no one's answering. You know, it's not the sprinklers or firecrackers we may have been throwing away as kids and playing with, which, of course, is dangerous, we now have a situation here to throw a cannon strike. A cannon strike can kill a man. So it's not a harmless firecracker at all, and I'm really asking you to be here as rigid as possible. First, to prevent selling it because it's really not normal to sell it just so freely and that everyone can get to it. I know it's problematic because it's often obtained abroad, but here who does it is fined and responsible for something like that. Also, around public gatherings, you know how, everywhere in the world there are clear rules about how you can have a public gathering. I know that some people here have a problem because it's hard for them to get 20 people together, because it's characterized as a public gathering, so maybe because they're against this law because they have that limit, they have to imagine 20 people getting together. But everywhere in the world you have to report the exact march where you're moving, how you're going to protest, you can't let you violate other rights. I admit, I've been leading some protests in my time, and we've been knowingly violating, or endangering people's ability to move freely because we deliberately blocked the street. I admit I did it, and I should have been punished by the state. They didn't do it, they showed weakness. I want you to show that there is a state here after all. Anyone can protest, it's perfectly normal and should allow anyone to express their dissatisfaction, but can't endanger the rights of anyone else who may be in a hurry to work, who may be in a hurry to engage in other activities and who can't freely move along the street, so I fully support this segment by introducing order. That's why this whole set of laws is absolutely something positive. Finally, someone started doing these things the way they were supposed to. I have to admit what a special unit is going to do, that's something that's very good. You should consider now in the set that all segments may have because they are still people who are especially in the land zone and are engaged in various tasks, so what should be accompanied by the law on police co-operation with the security services, how they may have some service themselves that would deal with certain security matters, but then, you should think about it. Anyway, the law is very good. The law is truly, reformically, someone has come to do their job well and certainly the SNS parliamentary group and I myself, with great pleasure, will support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46468	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46469	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, a respected colleague and colleagues, the SNP can in principle support the adoption of a new law on police, but the existing bill in our opinion is not sufficiently reformable in line with the needs of our society, people and police. The proposed proposal improves certain solutions under the previous law, introduces certain new institutes, defines some relations in a new and clearer way, but in general it is more concerned with the functioning of the police and its management than with its reform. Also, as the lack of reform and democratic capacity of this law is expressed in terms of protecting society from police and protecting the police themselves from politicisation, this law does not address the issue of police protection, and in particular its members, both in terms of carrying out jobs and tasks and in terms of protecting their basic rights of working and material status as well as equipment and working conditions. If we take into account the specificity of police work and the preventive action carried out on a daily basis by a police officer, this bill should contain a greater scope for the protection of officers on the ground and all for better transparency in the work. It is commendable that a compromise has been reached between the minister as a legislator of this law and union organisations in the police on free union action within special and special units. However, even the planned improvements continue to introduce human resources into the work of police are more ways to lead the area and how to humanely manage the police than how police members have a clearly defined, secure and secure status from which their better work could be expected, greater and clearer responsibility. We believe that organisations as well as the powers of these organisations, or special units, should be governed by this law, and not by lower acts, or by the rules, because the amendments to the regulations are more subject to change almost daily. In Article 34, which speaks of changes, we would like to know which of the organisational units or administrations implements and implements, whether each police officer or functional environment applies POM according to the stated need and which specifically gives consent and approval to it. In Article 50, we believe that under the term – police observation and observation at a small door introduce the possibility of unconstitutional and illegal in this bill. Such action is before and without the approval of the competent national authority, incurs fundamental human rights that are protected by the Constitution and other laws. Even the member himself is contradictory, as paragraph 3 says that the data obtained cannot be used in the process, while paragraph 1 requires the basis for such application and is said to be done for the purpose of collecting data for the submission of the proposal to the competent authority, and that proposal is also part of the procedure. Otherwise, the trend in this proposal is to stay as long as possible in the area where the work of the police is handled by the competent authorities, which is the basis for the abuse of productivity in the work, and in particular that such actions are always at the expense of citizens and their rights. There cannot be such actions without the approval and decision of the competent state authorities, while Article 52 rightly gives the police the right to film public places in the intended situations. We have proposed by amendment that this not only improves and to clarify, that the videos obtained cannot be used for other purposes. In fact, this kind of shooting involves a large number of people in a wide variety of situations, many of which have nothing to do with the foundation. Often, private details of the lives of our citizens, as well as many public figures, and any leak, or use of these videos for any other purpose other than those for which it is intended, should be prevented. Also, using a polygraph is considered a very specific police action and the results should not be presented to the public. In the case of delivery, human rights violations can occur, from the domain of health, because it is a medical method based on biological, psychophysical basis. The Serbian People's Party will propose amendments on the upcoming proposal, all in order to improve this proposal, but remains in the view that our society needs more rights and essential police reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46470	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46471	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected ministers, since we are first able to talk within the Republic Parliament at the beginning of 2016, first of all, I would like to make a certain finding and opinion of the SPS parliamentary club, as regards the police, the MUP and the work and activities of the MUP, when it comes to 2015. We believe that the Ministry of Interior, police in 2015 and that the entire year has been successful and dynamic, and we believe that the police have achieved significant results in the fight against organised crime and corruption. What is very important to us in the period of the migrant crisis, stability, security and security in our territory have been preserved. What I also want to say is that in 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia's resolution was confirmed, but also the MUP, in one determined non-selective fight against organised crime and corruption, regardless of social and financial status and regardless of party membership. This, in our opinion, is the basis and precondition for fighting for a better and European future and in this fight, our support should give the whole society. The Socialist Party supports both you as Minister and Ministry of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the follow-up of a determined, continuous, non-selective fight against organised crime and corruption, and we support the government in the fight for a better future in Serbia. There are three important and important laws in front of us today, as far as the area of security is concerned. First of all, a few words about the Police Bill, a system law that should regulate the way the police operate and ten years after the adoption of the current Law on Police, with occasional changes and additions, it is perfectly logical that today we are talking about a new legislative proposal that will correct all of those perceived shortcomings during the implementation of the past period, match them and bring them into line with the existing legislation, and we need a law that wants to give adequate and real answers to these modern challenges and risks and threats. We fully agree that comprehensive police reform is necessary and that you have the support of the SPS parliamentary club. By adopting this legislative proposal that we are launching today, we expect the police to get one more effective system, a better framework and better working conditions, and we expect citizens to get the police to work in their best interest, the police where there will be no place for crime and corruption, and that in the time ahead, after adopting this bill, we will avoid all those stories in public that there is crime and corruption within the police. In addition to expecting this law to provide a more efficient system for the functioning of the police, we believe that this law wants to ensure more open and transparent police work in co-operation with citizens, that the police are closer to the community, to the citizens. What is very important is that Serbian citizens trust the police. Much has been said during today's debate, and I want to highlight three key items when it comes to the draft law on police, and above all I mean the system of career progress, I mean increased police work in the community, and of course, I mean the enhanced work of the Internal Affairs Sector, or the greater competence of the Internal Control Sector. As far as the career advancement system is concerned, it is clear that those with knowledge and experience, results and knowledge will be the basic criteria, the parameters for progress in the police, and those who are the best and who contribute most to police work, progress based on merit. In order for someone to advance in the ministry, they must have certain knowledge, to undergo certain training, to perform certain functions within the police during a certain period of time, and these are basic criteria, in our opinion, fully justified in order to make progress in the ministry. This, in our opinion, will certainly motivate the employees of the MUP to do their job even more responsibly and more committed in the coming period. As for the increased work of police officers in the community, the point is that after adopting this legal proposal in its environment, in its environment, in its neighbourhood, in the community where they live, citizens will be more often able to see police officers, and on the other hand, police officers will have to know where security-interesting persons are. The third segment that I pointed out at this point, when it comes to the Bill of Police, is the enhanced work of the Internal Affairs Sector, and in our opinion it is a guarantee that no one can, will or should not embarrass the uniforms. So, to appreciate and respect honest, honest and responsible, serious, those who advocate the safety of our citizens, and on the other hand, those who have sinned against the law, they have chosen their own path. Control of all state officials, employees of the MUP, but also depositing property records of officials is something that in our opinion wants to boost additional awareness, i.e. strengthen respect for the rules and eradicate crime and corruption within the police. So, in our opinion, this law clearly provides for measures that need to eradicate crime and corruption within the police. Mr. Minister, it is very important for us to protect the lives of all police officers, to support all those who are responsible, committed and seriously doing their job and that the situation in which police officers are targeted, such as the situation at sports events, in the next period of time are not images to be seen in Serbia. I believe that you will work to improve the rights and position of all employees in the MUP, and in accordance with the economic capabilities of the state, reforms, as I said at the very beginning, they are necessary, inevitable in every sphere of society, in every area they are necessary, and we understand the situation. Usually, everyone at first supports reforms, and then when you go into implementation, there is some resistance, but it is necessary to implement reforms, because we have one trom system, and when we talk about the reform processes that the police will go through, it is a key and essential thing for us, the safety of citizens, and it should always be kept in mind. There is, of course, rationalization, no easy topic for you, but we believe that in a partnership relationship with union representatives you will find the best solutions. When it comes to the draft law on public gathering, I would say that it is quite clear that we have a more liberal law that is in line with European standards. The point is that everyone has the right to a free gathering, but this gathering cannot limit the right of others. Therefore, the proposal for a law on public gathering is allowed in front of all institutions, except institutions that are of strategic importance. So the restriction is only reduced to strategic facilities, in front of all other institutions, the gathering is allowed of course, I repeat, with respect for the rights of others. This law will ensure the right to a free gathering without restrictions and restrictions on the freedom of others. A few more details when it comes to this law, so the whole procedure that involves also reporting together, but also possible complaints about the decisions of the MUP should last as defined in 96 hours. Movement gatherings can be stopped in front of any point, but no hour-long traffic collapse will be allowed. The obligation to report a meeting in a closed area will not exist, but organisers should take care of security and bear responsibility. So the responsibility and responsibility of the organizer is defined, which we consider to be very significant. This legislative proposal, as you said in the opening statement, does not prohibit citizens from gathering spontaneously, is important to meet all the conditions when we talk about spontaneous gathering that there are no public calls, because then it is no longer spontaneous, then it cannot be defined as a spontaneous gathering. A few words at the very end of the proposal for a law on public order and peace, we believe that this legislative proposal adequately monitors the practice and changes in the normative arrangement of this area, bearing in mind the fact that the current law was adopted in 1992, makes it quite clear that we need to adopt a new quality legislative proposal that will adequately regulate this important area. Some new violations, some new penalties, have been introduced, specifically defining public order protection and measures in catering facilities, as well as provisions concerning minors and children. Otherwise, public order and peace violations are, in our opinion, an indication of the safety of society. At the very end, I will say once again what the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club, Mr Vanja Vukic, said in the opening presentation today, we will support all three legislative proposals in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46472	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46473	Thank you. Three critical remarks on each of the laws that are in the joint principled search with the hope that when we search for amendments, we will have the opportunity to discuss in detail what could be fixed and one principled with regret I must say that this is the other in general, and who knows which with changes and additions to police law. The first to engage in public gatherings, and the other to deal with order and peace, and that we are not subject to the fact that these are human freedoms and rights, which they are. Basic, constitutional and other documents guaranteed human freedoms and rights. And this measure of how interested we are in looking at the text of the law from the perspective of human freedoms and the rights of individuals and the protection of rights by the group, or institutions, shows how insufficient knowledge we are fascinated by one service, one sector in the country, which is primarily in the modern arrangement of the state of human rights and freedoms. It's more of a MUP than anything else, but obviously it's not time to talk about it yet. Consistent with the objections and dilemmas apparently had by the people of the ministry, the Law on the Police is more the Law on the Ministry than the police, and immediately a good remark, if the idea of progress is really applied on the basis of quite clear criteria, you will have very successful women in the police, I guarantee you. A lot more than there are men in politics. And that's a question of freedom and justice, so I say that I am sorry that freedom is everyone's duty to spend time on the praise of the minister or to twist information when and how the law on police is passed, but for reforms in our society it's important that these laws be seen from the perspective of human freedoms and rights. The external control that the minister has already explained, I hope we will not have a problem with the application, as the Citizens' Protector unfortunately has a problem with the application of members of his jurisdiction. The law on public gathering, the law that they failed to pass four or five governments after the change of the Constitution and the law that had to be passed because the Constitutional Court, of course, had put out of force the existing law. So responsibility and political and this one is divided between different governments. I am sorry that in this law, again from the point of view of human freedoms and rights, practically a public gathering is seen only to gather a certain number of people in a certain place. It's not a public gathering. Markets and streets have been conquered for a reason and exist and should be arranged for people to gather together and express their views. It's primarily a public gathering. The law predicted that sports manifestations, all the same, state authorities don't even have to file applications, it's not good. Not good, there are many incorrect solutions, as unfortunately in some members of the Police Act and the experience of all of us is that when you have incorrect provisions in the members of the law, they tend to be misused, misused, more frequently than they really are applied as it says. They repeat another critical remark that I have been behind for years in this Assembly, which is that I feel it is necessary to respect the resolution on the legislative activities of the National Assembly and that it is better for the Ministry of Interior to show us the sublaws as well. These laws can't without sublegal acts, if they give real deadlines to be done, they're always shorter than you think. It's always been delayed because there are no sublegal acts. The last law that also deals with freedoms and the rights of people, you can say every law deals with freedoms and the rights of people, restricts them or introduces them, but when it comes to police, when it comes to public gathering or public order and peace, these are the basic freedoms of self-expression, non-expression and your attitude to public behaviour, you see how much freedom in society is, and by regulations you can see how much legislator is willing to say this is just freedom or this is too much freedom, so let's cut it down. Never a reduction in freedom has brought any good to anyone, and in that sense, the last comment on the Law on Public Order and Peace, I have submitted amendments concerning definitions, because this law, like this one, has inaccurate provisions, has mixed criminal, misdemeanor, and when you have such a provision, whoever you are minister, I am not saying this in a party or political way, has the chance to be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46474	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46475	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, guests, colleagues and colleagues, is certainly the most important link of internal security, which is why this law is of particular importance. I really must commend that it is a representative team of the MUP, the police, today in the Assembly, which shows a lot of respect for the National Assembly, it should become a pattern for other ministries' behaviour. Also, from these three draft laws, I saw that a very serious job was done by the team that did these proposals and I want to commend it. A comprehensive approach is seen, a view facing the future, a comprehensive analysis of the challenges that police will face and seek the best organisational responses. I think the law provides a legal basis, a law on police, for the creation of an improved system of organisation and the functioning of police, harmonizes the functioning of police with high standards of respect for human rights. At the same time, it should allow for such a police reform that will significantly improve the fight against organised crime, corruption, family and other violence, terrorism. I'd just point out a few aspects of the Police Act here. What particularly impresses me is the definition of the means of coercion and their use. I think this is a precisely regulated area which is of particular importance, because it needs maximum protection against illegal police acts and excessive use of force. You can see there's some new funding coming. It is evident that human rights are respected, that citizens are protected from serious bodily harm. Although, I have one dilemma, I must admit, could all this possibly make it difficult for the police to act at certain times? Because it seems to me that over the last decades we've had a situation that is unacceptable in the most developed countries, that the easiest trigger is being pulled right towards the cops and that they simply become maybe targets that no one is afraid to answer if their lives are at stake. Article 108 defines that each use of funds is forced by a police officer in writing to report to a senior police officer. Of course it is necessary, but it seems to me that so far there may be a lot more in practice, that this process is bureaucratic and that it makes it more difficult for police officers to behave in all aspects. Secondly, new means of coercion are the product of a tendency to modernize police officers' equipment, according to the law. One of the most important aspects of any reform is the modernisation of a reformed system. In this sense, it is therefore necessary to modernise both in terms of equipment and in terms of police weapons, especially a special anti-terrorist unit, which should be formed, a gendarme, certainly a helicopter unit. I would also say that the protection of police officers is a very important member of 124, which defines the assault by firearms on a police officer in the sense of Article 2 of this article is considered to be merely a movement of firearms or an attempt to pull it out. So the protection of a police officer must be raised to one much, much higher level. About the level of security checks, Article 141, a very important member. These security checks are actually a preventive move against abuse in the MUP. I'm going to say, let's say, one example that I've recently noticed, that a man has been high-ranking and that in the International Co-operation Sector, he's been complicit in carrying out one of the most severe crimes where he's been harassed a citizen, where there's been a serious physical injury, that this officer falsely testified, that this other one has been convicted of it, and that for some other reasons he remains unreachable to justice, and that he has then progressed in the MUP. Then I wonder what kind of security checks are done if a man's profile can be so high-ranking? So I think this article in 141 will prevent that from happening again in the next period. Also, the system of career advancement. The definition of a career advancement system is necessary for the functioning and efficient work of police, as it defines progress in knowledge and skills, the principles of professional planning, selection, selection. So, continuous education, continuous training of police officers are a guarantee that they will behave professionally and will increase the efficiency of police work. In that sense, I am very supportive of this provision that defines this system of career advancement, of course, with the expectation that there will be no abuse and some subjective interpretation. Then, what draws attention is certainly a police-intelligence model. I think we've missed it so far and that this model is very important to allow the police to make decisions much more effectively and to work. So, criminal intelligence is a set of collected, evaluated, processed, analysed data that is the basis for decision-making in police affairs. Just one example to point out who makes me think this is a very important thing. You have an example. The case in Bosilegrad, where the party is damaged, or the court has asked 13 times the police's assistance to implement their decision through the perpetrators. Thirteen times the police do not provide assistance, because a local BIA member, who is related to one person protesting the execution, is making some kind of security assessment that says there is no need to carry out the execution. Well, how is it possible that anyone can block a court ruling with their own judgment? So now the assessment by the police, defined by Article 34, is very important to correct such illogicality. This is of particular importance to the efficiency of the police and it is most important to avoid subjectivity and lack of expertise. Also, Article 27, and I draw attention to, community police, police are developing co-operation and partnership with citizens and other community entities in order to do police work. I'd only have one suggestion, Mr. Minister, I would. I don't think the police have enough communication with the Roma community to make significant moves in the coming period, because the Roma community has daily crime, human trafficking, domestic violence, women, children, and if we might have more members of the Roma population in any segment of the establishment of that communication, we can improve the efficiency of police work towards the Roma community and create mutual trust. There we might be able to get the support of the OSCE and some other international organisations for such a single programme. As for the proposal for a law on public gathering, I think it is very liberal, allows citizens, organisations, associations, parties, to gather uninterruptedly and to meet and respect the necessary conditions for their own safety. But I do have one question specifically for you, Mr. Minister, article 4 defines the meeting place. Among other things, point 2 is said: the closed space within the meaning of this law is the space, object or room fenced or marked, in which the gathering takes place. What does this really mean – space fenced or marked? Does that mean, for example? Like this -- here, I remember now, recently I was in the Bosilegrad municipality. There, for election purposes, a large hole was dug, the president of the municipality wanted it to show that there would be a pool. The pool, of course, isn't. Now a group of citizens want to organize a public event outside the municipality, where they will fence some of the area with a styrofoam, as an imitation of the pool, and there to maintain space, to invite the president of the municipality, to first open the pool in that place. Shouldn't that rally be reported? Is that being treated like a closed space? Or, say, in the park some space fences, improvised or marked with some tape, that it can organize an assembly and be a meeting place? Another note relating to the Law on Public Order and Peace, Article 12 of the Prosecution. I think this is a rather significant question, especially for big cities. In Belgrade, you have a daily threat to security not so many drivers from begging on the streets, at traffic lights, but just children who are the subject of begging abuse. I've recently, I must admit, had an amazing scene that terribly upset me as a parent. I had a kid in front of the car who might be barely two years old, who I didn't see at all, who was involved in begging, and I guess his parents were about 30 meters away, and I was a little short on running over that kid. You just can't notice him. Therefore, these provisions must be consistently applied and that all those who abuse children for begging, should be sanctioned, because these constant abuses of children, I repeat, endanger their safety. I think these proposed laws will make it possible for the police to work more efficiently, to greatly improve the status of police officers, to have a modern law that will be able to meet the security challenges that the police and we as a society will face in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46476	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46477	Thank you for these few constructive remarks. We will try to act precisely to improve communication with the Roma community, although the police and these last year, in 2015 we tried to improve the number of police officers in the Roma population. There's something we can talk to both national advice and people. We have several officers who have been highly ranked with their work and have achieved certain results. We have, unfortunately, those who are trying to enroll, that is, to compete for jobs in the police, but they don't meet certain conditions laid down by law, and then there's a bit of a problem. The police are one of the specific organs where you can't even see someone for a millimeter, because if you put a weapon in someone's hand and they don't meet some basic preconditions, it doesn't matter what their name is, the last name, which is nationality, you just can't do it. As far as this is concerned, let me just explain about this, and you're right here, bound to maybe need an explanation for this space that's being fenced or marked. The point is, of course, that access is controlled. So those who enter that space, where you have as organizer control over that part of the space, that can't go in and out uncontrollably, because then it would lose purpose and point. Of course, there is a need to respect other legal regulations, because you can only fence a public park if you have permission to do so. You can't fence some space because you like to fence it, and you don't have permission to fence it, so it doesn't belong to you. If there is a mark-up permit, then you do not have to physically prevent certain tarabs in the set or with some other wire or with some other material propaganda, by putting the counters or anything like that, you can only indicate that it is a closed space for a public gathering, or that it is intended for a public gathering, but you must have the consent of the owner of the space, the consent of the local self-government or anyone who runs that space in order to hold the meeting. Anyway, the idea was to actually provide a space in which people can be restricted, just for your rally, and then it makes sense that there's no reporting obligation, because you kind of have control over who's coming to your meeting and who's coming to your event. To the most extent, at least this experience has shown what I've seen so far, it's going to be about places that are tightly fenced and that have a factical category of indoor space in some classical conservative understanding, but we've left the possibility that someone can tag the space and say, we have the permits, we have the gatherings here, there's a set that we don't want to report, we don't have to report, because it's in controlled space. It was an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46478	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46479	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs Ljubicic, dear Mr. Rebic, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, without diminishing the importance of the Law on Police, a new law that is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, I will focus my exposure on the other two laws that are united by this search. The adoption of the Law on Public Assembly is necessary, not only because of the fact that a legal vacuum took place, as a result of the Constitutional Court's assessment of certain provisions of the previous law on citizens' gathering, but because this law provides for the regulation of constitutional freedom of assembly. In December last year, at a joint meeting, we had the opportunity, in fact, members of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, to discuss with the representatives of the Ministry about the proposal for a law on public gathering, and then we heard that, compared to the draft law that started the public debate, literally all the proposals, which were legally possible, were included in the draft law. How important it was to hold this meeting, the fact that following this meeting some suggestions were subsequently included in the proposal, which we are considering today. If we compare this bill to the recently applicable Law on Public Assembly of Citizens, we can say that this law is more liberal and precise, and what is important to point out is that this is the only regulation in our legislation that regulates even public meetings. Some countries are governed by one law exclusively by the civil right to assemble, while obligations and certain restrictions are prescribed by other laws. Our law also regulates constitutional freedom of assembly, but also the self-organization of meetings, which includes the technical part that regulates the obligation of organizers, the way in which the assembly is registered, the prevention and interruption of gatherings, but this law also provides for restrictions on freedom of assembly in accordance with Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in this regard, I would say that I disagree with the opposition's claim that Article 8. The draft law does not comply with the Constitution, because all that is referred to in Article 8 is what is treated and the provision in Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the security of the Republic of Serbia, protection of public health, morals and protection of the rights of others. The very concept of public gathering in this law has not been changed, but the specificity of this provision, in relation to other countries, is that this law also covers commercial gatherings, or other forms of gathering which aim to achieve cultural, religious, sports and other entertainment interests. Compared to the Law on Citizens Gathering, the very concept of gathering is more liberal. In fact, it is possible to gather in motion, not only at the place of departure and the place of completion, but also at certain places, that is, during the movement. This solution was introduced after the meeting that I mentioned, which was held in the National Assembly, and is in favour of citizens in terms of expressing their views. The law provides for a more precise space where public gathering is not allowed because of the characteristics of the place itself and its specific purposes, because in the previous law, public assemblies are determined exclusively by the act of the municipalities, or cities, and we believe that this solution is extremely good, because self-government will be easier from the aspect of their conduct to have legal restrictions on the place, and later on the possibility of developing its list. Also, we think that a good solution is also a more flexible time of gathering compared to the previous law. It corresponds to both the citizens and the services that function as a public meeting. The second part, the technical part of the law, concerns the very organisation of meetings, i.e. the obligations and responsibilities of the organisers, the way of reporting, but also the prevention and interruption of the gathering itself, and there are no major changes being made. The papers are spontaneous, peaceful gatherings. They are a reality and they exist and should have been introduced into the law, because, regardless of their nature, they are not subject to the application, in this way the authority of the state authority is established to act in a legally established manner, in the sense of the obligation to take special measures, and in the event of an unforeseeable excess, i.e. a breach of public order and peace, in particular that they are not subject to the time limit laid down in Article 7. It's a bill of law. Finally, when it comes to this law, I would like to make one observation, which is that the ministry has also accepted the proposals that the deadline for supplementing the application to the competent authority for the meeting be reduced from eight to five days to one suggestion, we welcome this, that the deadline for supplementing the application should be extended from 12 to 24 hours. In that sense, it would not be bad for the ministry to consider, once again, whether it would be good to extend this deadline, and of course intervene with the committee amendment. The reasons for the adoption of a new law on public order and peace are numerous. That's what we also had a chance to listen to today. It was certainly necessary to adopt a new law, because the spirit of time also requires a new regulation, but it was certainly necessary to comply with all the laws that were passed in the meantime, such as the 2013 Law on Infringements, and as regards criminal penalties, so there was a harmonisation of provisions with new infringement institutes, such as working in the public interest. Harmonisations have been made and necessary so that the municipal police and inspection authorities can perform their duties uninterrupted. In accordance with the time I have, I would refer only to three provisions of this law. The proposal for a law on public order and peace extends the concept of a public place, i.e. to specify the place of enforcement based on a disturbance of public order and peace. In the applicable law, this concept was not clearly defined, and therefore it was difficult to identify the characteristics of the infringements committed. In the last position, Article 2 extends the concept of a public place to those places which, within the meaning of Article 1(2) of this Article, does not consider a public place, if the place is available in respect of or out of the public place, or the effect has arisen in a public place. This is where a dilemma is imposed - is it public space and the Internet? The electronic communications law defines communication networks. In this context, I would ask you whether the law regulates this space, whether it takes into account, I think, given that this space can be a place that is accessible to the public? Another newspaper, which my colleagues did not mention, is a newspaper that monitors modern technologies, which concerns the use of remote devices, i.e. aircraft or so on. Drones. These devices are often abused, they are now also used for various misdemeanors, precisely because of this empty void. I'll remind you that the new Air Traffic Act has defined the concept of these drones, set nearer conditions for their safe use, but also prescribed conditions for the persons who will use them. We believe that by introducing, in fact, punishing abuse by using these devices is extremely important and that it will certainly affect the security of citizens. The last provision I would specifically refer to is Article 16. The bill, and this bill as well as the applicable law defines the concept of prostitution and foresees a violation for sex service providers in exchange for money or any other benefit. The SPS parliamentary group has proposed only one amendment to all these laws and is just an amendment to this member of the law, adding another mark against legal action. With the broad explanation that we delivered along with the amendment itself, in a few minutes, I would only present the facts. The Republic of Serbia has, as a signator of numerous international agreements and numerous conventions, taken the obligation, in fact, to take measures to combat prostitution and trafficking in human beings, as well as exploitation of women and children. The prostitution itself is in the informal, meaning gray zone, and it affects the increase and violence against women and girls who are most often just victims of sexual exploitation. The introduction of infringement measures for users of prostitution services can also contribute to curbing human trafficking. There are different approaches in Europe, when it comes to prostitution, from full criminalisation, partial decriminalisation to full legalisation. The model that has given the most effect in curbing human trafficking is a Swedish model that provides punishment for clients of prostitution while service providers are decriminal. According to prostitution studies, this way has been reduced by as much as 70% in Sweden, and not only that, a major blow has been struck by all sex traffickers. This proposed amendment is our combination of this Nordic model and some domestic practice, and it introduced the same provision four years ago into its law on violations against public order and peace and Croatia. We felt that this solution was actually a step forward in relation to the approach we had so far as a state and perhaps the basis for introducing a Nordic model. If there is a space or understanding that, by the date of the adoption of the law, the idea of full decriminalisation of persons providing services and sanctioning the users themselves can also be corrected. Anyway, this was an opportunity to look back on this problem and talk openly about possible solutions. And in the end, I want to congratulate the MUP on the quality of the bill. They are the result and work of the ministry itself, as well as of all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46480	Thank you, Miss Miladanovic. The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46481	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, we know that for the general security and security of citizens, police are the most important link, especially today when we are all exposed daily to various security risks, here I mean both society in general and citizens as individuals. I want to point out that Serbian police are one of the most ready in the region and manages to respond to all security risks and challenges. We should not forget that the police, in addition to the military and the education system, are the largest systems financed from the state budget. This kind of system is not easy to organize or control. It is therefore important to regulate all segments of police work by law. Thus, the fact that the police are the authority of the force, because there are also powers to apply force in the performance of their jobs, requires that the law accurately regulate and cases of use and cases of restrictions on the use of force resources. This new law on police introduces a series of newspapers that have more goals. First, to further improve police work, then to comply with a number of laws that have been passed since 2005, when the applicable law was passed. I would like to remind you that the amendments to the 2011 law have also significantly improved the basic legal text. This time, a number of new concepts have been introduced into the law, new institutes, which are the result of the adoption of many laws that have been passed in the meantime, from criminal and breaking legislation to the Law on the Protection of the State Border, which is now being protected by the border police. The law further sets out police affairs from internal affairs. So we have the Ministry and the Police Directorate as two parts of a single system, with a number of internal and organisational units covering the territory of the entire Republic and organised on the principle of subordination and direct responsibility to a higher level. That's why the police organisation is very complicated and the scope of affairs is enormous, from maintaining order at sports and other events, to detecting, monitoring and taking steps towards perpetrators of criminal offences, organised crime and border guard. It is precisely because of the work of the police that makes the law even clearer between the powers of police officers working on police jobs from other state officials without police authority. Otherwise, for the first time, the Law on the Police is introduced – a civil servant, as is the case in all other state bodies. In this way, businesses are also differentiated and the responsibility for the tasks carried out is directed towards authorised officials. A number of legal provisions stimulates the career progress of ministry and police employees, which is a professionalisation of police and an opportunity for the best to be placed in the most responsible jobs in the areas for which they are qualified. Therefore, even more experience of acquired skills, education, successfully implemented educational programs will be appreciated, etc. Another good paper in the law is to edit procedures for conducting security checks on persons who are subject to such checks. Three rounds of checks are now foreseen depending on the type of jobs to be carried out, so that possible failures will certainly be excluded and abuses and improvisation will be prevented. Then, this law extends the content of the oath, and all police officers have to take part in the reception of the service, so as to introduce an obligation to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I would also like to point out, as a good solution, which strengthens both the role and the scope of the IDP's internal control service to deal with police lawfulness and the control of overpowering or excessive use of force. Internal Affairs will have great responsibility for the professional and legal work of the police and that's good. It is important for Serbian citizens to have good police, police who trust that they can protect them from domestic violence both from criminals and murderers. It could be the police who are professional, unsuspecting, well-equipped and well-paid. In addition to the Police Law, two other important laws are on the agenda from the police ministry's jurisdiction. These are the Law on Public Order and Peace and the Law on Public Assembly. The SPS MPs will support these legislative proposals and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46482	Thank you, Mr Maximovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great interest of the Members of Parliament to have this law for a reason. A lot of my colleagues applied for a discussion, and I'm gonna try not to take too much time. It's about a significant area. It is a significant law, which has a significant impact on the security of citizens, on the prevention of crime, on human rights combined with justice, that determines the quality of our lives. I want to say that it is extremely good, or at least I have such an impression, that the Ministry of Police is constantly improving the work of the police itself, that in several amendments and additions to the law so far we have had new organisational units, new procedures, new mechanisms in the ministry itself, and that a step by step the police ministry is approaching those civilized values that we have in the EU today. There are rapid changes in this area, rapid changes are also in the EU itself, as security challenges are very rapid. They depend, in any case, on, above all, on the external factor of all that is happening in the Middle East, which is happening in the southwest of Asia, which is happening in Africa itself, and the same problems for the EU and for Serbia and our priorities are the same. So, first of all, security risks related to terrorism, then, concerning organised crime, and finally as far as migration is concerned, which are becoming more serious from the month to the month, and bring a large number of risks. Of course, not when it comes to Serbia, there is no need to ignore internal factors, and I would say first and foremost that this long-term economic crisis and a few standards, a major problem affecting these risks are increasing significantly in Serbia itself. As far as the law itself is concerned, what is most important to me is that this is a law that is consistent with the strategic objectives set by the police ministry. I'd like more for the citizens to remind you of what these goals are. It is, in any case, the fight against organised crime and corruption, it is more security for citizens, it is working with local communities, institution reform and European integration. Of course, when it comes to European integration, the opening of Chapter 24, we have an obligation to carry out strategic assessments, especially at this point in the field of organised crime, but there is much more on this road, and this law creates one institutional framework to make all those commitments we have made towards the EU, according to the integrations that await us, in the best way and to implement them. When it comes to the second strategic goal set by the ministry, it is work in local communities. We've had safety tips in the municipalities so far, but I have to realize that the situation isn't great. That a large number of municipalities, local communities, did not recognise the need for closer co-operation with the police, with the MUP, and that perhaps only one half of the local communities have formed advice, and a good part of them is more formal than they are essentially able to combine the common interest of all citizens and police institutions. So, the goal that the ministry has set for itself is to promote, first of all, the emphasis on prevention, and not on repression, and to promote co-operation with local self-government itself and the police themselves, in a way to make it a service of citizens and much closer to the citizens themselves, which would be of paramount importance to our society as a whole. I would say, by skipping some of the parts relating to the institutes in this law, that it is of the utmost importance to separate jobs, the system of career advancement and internal competitions. All this means effective police, but all of this, will create conditions to create and save seriously in the ministry itself and to carry out a serious distribution of financial resources, so I think that the police ministry deserves one commendation because among the first ones it recognized the need to reorganise the ministry itself and it is fully aware that the reform processes that are happening today in Serbia and must include all institutions and I hope that it will also be an example for the rest of the RS government. The integrity of the police is greatly strengthened by this law. These are, above all, institutes that involve different control dynamics, that it is important to strengthen internal control, integrity test, verify the property of the officials, all of this needs to significantly strengthen police integrity, reduce corruption itself. Finally, in any case, commendation to the ministry for being very open and transparent when it comes to co-operation with both civil institutions and with all those who had and wanted to make objections to this law, it is one newspaper. I think the current ministry has stepped up importantly when it comes to the transparency of its work and how commendable, praise for the commitment to these police reforms and commendation for the willingness to correct this law through public debate. One more time, I'm sure I have a good text in front of me. We will have a very large number of amendments, I am sure that, all the understanding the ministry has shown in all the proposals in the previous period, that it will also have according to amendments of MPs and authorities and opposition, and that in a few days we will have one significantly more quality law than we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46484	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, Miss Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46485	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers Stefanovic with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in the last decade of the 20th century, has seen major changes in the concept of police in the world, interpretation, which is the role of police, which is its place in society, in which police should be organised and how a system of police management should be implemented. We're coming up with a review of a new concept in the police department. The proposed law on police does not bring us closer to the highest European and world standards in the field of regulation of police work applied in the world and represents exactly that, the new concept of police work in Serbia. All relevant international institutions, the European Commission, the OSCE, representatives of civil society, representatives of state institutions, domestic and foreign experts, as well as opinions of professional associations and trade unions were included in the draft law. A public debate on the adoption of the police law was conducted in all the largest cities in Serbia, Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. Also held were consultations and a series of meetings in Belgrade with union representatives. Public debates are also organised with representatives of NGOs, professional associations, representatives of the judiciary and other state bodies in Serbia, as well as professors from the Criminal and Police Academy. You have carefully considered all the proposals and initiatives embedded in the new law on police, which is liberal, monitors modern flows and reforms the work of the MUP, aiming primarily at greater efficiency, and all in the service to make the security of Serbian citizens better. I would like to point out that the proposed solutions will have a significant impact on the work of both the MUP members and the reform in the reorganisation of the entire MUP. It will also affect citizens of RS who will draw closer to police work in a better, fairer way and achieve more direct co-operation with police members. It'll affect the security system itself. The draft police law is also foreseen by the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows, according to some previous governments, and some previous police ministers have failed to propose to the National Assembly of the RS. Now I will not talk about the reasons why in the past decades there are some opportunities, some of these opportunities are left behind and why the Law on the Police has not been adopted, why the full reform of the Serbian police has not been implemented and why someone has not thought of doing so before. I congratulate you, Minister Stefanovic, and your team on the courage to step up and be the first police minister to narrow down his powers, the first police minister to limit his authority, which was not the case in earlier political history. Also, the bill introduces, in my opinion, the most significant changes that the government of the Republic of Serbia has started with Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, changes that the MUP is conducting when it comes to curbing corruption in its ranks. It is important to clean up in its ranks and separate what the Serbian people like to say - the wheat from the weeds, separate the police officers who do their job with value and the ones whose goal is something else - yachts, business space, exclusive villas on the coast and other material values. These legal solutions will now give us the right opportunity to separate the wheat from the weeds in the Serbian police. The new legislative solutions predict that the internal control sector will control all members and employees of the MUP, but also more frequent checks by managers and employees in high-risk places when it comes to corruption. The internal control sector gets significantly higher powers and provides for the introduction of integrity tests, the deposit of property cards by managers in the MUP, with the possibility of checking and other employees, which significantly raises control levels and higher level of insight into data on the property situation of employees in order to combat corruption. Depolitisation of the Serbian police and its further professionalisation, along with the process of career progress and permanent improvement, are principles strongly introduced in this law and related to the reorganised and reformed Serbian police. Introduce integrity tests as a method of disclosing the criminal part of corruption, the corrupt behaviour of officials, whose conditions and methods of application will be prescribed by sublegal acts. The implementation of these new solutions will provide a series of data to further analyse and propose measures to eradicate corruption in the ranks of the MUP. This law, as well as other sublegal acts we expect to adopt in the coming period, will define clear criteria for who will be able to work in the Serbian police. The conditions for establishing a working relationship in the MUP will now be significantly tightened. The employees will have to meet these conditions exactly as they do in the police, and that means all the time. The interpretation of the broader concept of this law will for the first time clearly define two categories of employees in the police. On the one hand, there must be a clear difference between authorized police officers working on police business with so-called police officers. Police powers and state officials doing police work in connection with police affairs that are now a significant narrow. Now you'll finally know who's doing what in the police and who's in charge. A legal basis has also been introduced for further categorisation for the classification of posts in the MUP, the adoption of a regulation on principles for internal organisation and organisation of jobs in the MUP and new sublaws whose adoption is expected as soon as possible. What's important and what I want to apostrophe is that in this current bill, there's been a lot of work done on police co-operation. In order to protect our country's security system, police are working with everyone who contributes to the quality of life of the community. Co-operation is being carried out both internally and internationally. On the international agenda, we have strong co-operation with Interpol, Europol, but what we lack and what can be better is co-operation with the citizens themselves whose participation and role must be stronger and greater. The new concept of police in the community will provide just that -- a safe environment for the lives of all Serbian citizens. At the very end, I'd like to point out the following. The reforms you started in the Serbian police will have multiple positive effects, and the bill on police is in favour. You will restore citizens' confidence in police work, improve the public image that the interest of a Serbian police officer is honorable and fair and that Serbian police officers are carrying it out in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Also, some positive practices of EU Member States have been introduced into this law, and above all those provisions relating to improving the position of women in the security system, which today shoulder-to-shoulderly carry out their professional tasks. Also, the bill introduces the ministry's social role in relation to its employees. He's educated, so-called. a solidarity fund for police officers, creating an opportunity for MIP officials to obtain funds from funds they need, for example. For treatment and for some of the extraordinary expenses life brings. You have also introduced new means of coercion to further reduce the use of firearms by police officers. You've upgraded the equipment used by police officers, and you've prescribed the means of coercion. For the first time in police practice, new means of coercion such as electroshockers and other means of coercion have been introduced, bringing Serbian police closer to standards used by police in EU Member States. Career advancement, preconcentration, police professionalization and reforms are important for us. It is important that we adopt a new law on police because of ourselves, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to make it clear that a description of what the police minister is doing, what the police director is doing, what the Police Directorate is doing, what the counter-office officers are doing, who give us passports and personal documents every day, and what a police officer is doing on the street. Only then will we come closer to the EU and truly implement the process of European integration, as one serious country. If we could do that, it shows our Serbian police every day in the way they face the migrant crisis and the circumstances that led to it. Serbian police officers today show a humane attitude towards migrants passing through our country, which is what I publicly congratulate you on this occasion. For the first time, the bill also adopts the right to strike and the right to union organisation of members, which places it in one of the most liberal legal solutions. I want to remind all citizens, as well as all the MPs, that this is a right, a right to strike and a right to union organization abolished in certain countries of military and police. In order for the effects mentioned above to be realised as soon as possible in practice, I call on my fellow Members of the People to support this draft law on police in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46486	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46487	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I give a brief review of the proposed law on police, let me note something that my predecessors unfortunately did not notice. Since 2000, Mr. Minister, you are the first minister to have had the courage and courage to engage in root, organisational, normative, human resources, educational reforms of the MUP and police. Since 2000, as you know, we have had reform of education, judicial reform, defence reform, but none of your predecessors before you had the strength and the courage to engage in the reform of the MUP and the police as an integral part. First of all, because of what we know about the famous scheme between the individual representatives of the MUP, the politics and the bearer of organised crime, and you, some of the solutions of this proposed law, want to cut off this holy trinity and bring the police on the path of legal work and prevent any abuse of police officers or civil servants in the MUP. I honestly congratulate you on that, and I want you to succeed. I know what kind of temptations you face and challenges, but I believe that you will succeed on that path and that we will have one effective Ministry of Interior, one well-organized police guaranteeing the safety of all the citizens of our country. As you noticed from the discussion of my predecessors, two key reasons why we're discussing a new police law today. First of all, the Law on Police has been passed long ago in 2006, and over the past nine years, a dozen laws have been passed primarily in the area of the judiciary and some other areas, which directly or indirectly refer to the work of the MUP and the police, so it is necessary to bring one such law into line with the Police Law with the solutions already made in some laws that were previously adopted. The second reason, no less important, is that you, through the reform of the MUP and the police, join the government's definition of rationalization of the state administration and that the Ministry as an organisational unit of government is also subject to some systemic organisational changes. What is the newspaper of some who are highlighted here, but not sufficiently explained? For the first time since 2000, I am talking about 2000, you are clearly sharing police personnel with police officers and civil servants and this vertical, i.e. clear distinction and powers and part-time jobs, this is the first time in this bill that will contribute to a better organisation, greater efficiency and reduce some of the dilemmas and reserves that someone outside the Ministry of the Interior has towards the police and the Ministry of the Interior. You will also allow yourself, as a new minister, to face one confusion and to intertwine jurisdiction between civil servants and police officers, and this bill wants you to clearly specify the place, the role of each other. Police officers will deal with police affairs according to the proposed solutions, and civil servants will do jobs, internal affairs. It is up to the government to prescribe an internal organisation of the ministry, and you, as a competent minister, will prescribe a new organisation and systematization of jobs in the Ministry of the Interior and thus complete the solutions set out in this law. For the first time, what is a newspaper and what I fully welcome, a detailed and detailed function of human resource management has been highlighted. You will allow yourself, as minister, to have faced the Ministry of the Interior since 2000, we have had confusion about reception and career management. So we had, and you're witnessing and you're facing some people at the Ministry, whose place isn't in the Ministry or the police, that in years behind us, we've had a situation of unsettled staffing and the way of competition and employment at the Ministry of the Interior, that we rarely received various hygienists, who would then, under suspicious circumstances, finish high schools and colleges with suspicious accreditation, and then move to some key functions at the Ministry of the Interior, completely incompetent to perform these functions. The solutions you offer in this law for the first time clearly define the conditions of competition and admission to labour, the establishment of a working relationship in the ministry and the police. But also, throughout the system of provisions in the proposed law of career leadership, you define both ways of progress and conditions for progress in the police, so these solutions remind me of the solutions already made by the General Staff and the Ministry, and you have clearly noticed that this is clearly distinguished in the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, as well as between the Police Directorate and the Home Secretary. For the first time, you clearly specify the conditions for advancement in the service, where, among other things, in addition to the assessment of the assumed and the results in the service, you prescribe professional training of people for appropriate formational places. It is widely known that everyone in the police and everyone in the Home Office can't do all the work. So you need some knowledge and some recommendations, so far leading personnel at the Ministry of the Interior, you'll agree with me, it was assumed that the supposed start to propose for an appropriate higher level of management and that the superior agreed and set up those persons. For the first time, we have clearly distinguished conditions so that someone can make progress in the police, so that they can take up some key police executive positions. You have also introduced acts, which I also welcome, both at a strategic level and at a local level. This will make clear the difference and visibility of people who do more important jobs than minor jobs, but also the principle of subordination and how the one who has been violated since 2,000 years in the Ministry of the Interior will live. You have introduced three levels of security change, which I also very much welcome, for members of the ministry, or members of the police, depending on the sensitivity of the place for which the installation is scheduled. There have been objections from opposition MPs to these security changes, probably out of the knowledge that the Ministry is not only doing these security checks, but also some other security institutions are involved, such as the Security Information Agency, so it cannot be attributed to bias in defining the results of security checks and that it only comes down to the Ministry of the Interior. You have expanded the affairs of the Police Directorate on adoption, and this is very important, it remains undetected in the discussions of my predecessors, with regard to the adoption of strategic assessments and strategic plans. You will allow it, and there are representatives of the Ministry of the Interior that since 2000 we have not had strategic analysis and strategic planning at the level of the Ministry of the Interior. Many security challenges and threats and risks and trends in their development require that we as a society, and above all, the MUP and the police have long-term plans and assessments of some negative security phenomena that have a negative impact on the safety of citizens and society as a whole. You have clearly prescribed police powers and the application of them, and as my previous colleague said and the use of electroshockers as some new means of implementing police powers, this is not so important given the frequent situation that using firearms in the use of police powers can cause far-reaching consequences for the persons to whom these powers are applied, but using electroshockers can achieve the same effects with minor consequences. You have defined special units of police and special purpose units and it is perfectly correct that we as a country of this type have one special unit and several units of special purpose. I know the gendarmes aren't going to forgive you for some kind of benefits they lose, but it's perfectly justified that we as a country with such security challenges, risks and threats have one special unit. Allow me, in the end, to refer to some of the remarks the opposition MPs made on the draft of this law. One of the remarks was to dissipate police work, such as documents, driver's licenses and something else. You've noticed in your opening statement that measures have already been taken to make certain jobs that have no similarities with jobs, internal affairs, that the police are dissipated, and in that sense you've mentioned the anti-building defense. Your thinking, which I think is also justified that you remove from the police and the Emergency Sector to relieve the police so they can answer clean police business. If this objection by opposition MPs to issue ID cards, driver's licenses and other administrative tasks outside the ministry, this requires a number of dilemmas. This requires the creation of the necessary conditions. You know, that the central bank, the database is headed to the MUP, so how are you going to avoid some people who are banned from driving or issuing a driver's license, issuing double IDs, how are you going to be able to check out some of the persons that need to be checked out to issue a document? That if you leave, and what is the suggestion of the opposition MPs, local self-government, I think that would create chaos. I support the idea of keeping it in charge, for a thousand reasons, in the jurisdiction of the police and the MUP. One of the remarks also made by the opposition MPs, that you have given more power to the minister by proposing a solution in this law. I think and agree with my fellow Members of my parliamentary group that you have narrowed your authority by a proposal of these laws. Then there was the remark that it was justifiable fear that you could, that you weren't authorized to have insight into the objects that were in progress, that were in work. Mr. Minister, the police are operating on the principle of subordination as well as the military. And you, as Home Secretary, must be familiar with all the jobs and tasks on which the MUP and the police are involved, including the jobs, and the objects that work. It's inadmissible that you don't know the objects that work. You are not allowed to influence the course of the investigation and the cases in the work, but you are certainly invited to know everything that happens in the Ministry and the police and in all the jobs and tasks on which the police and the Ministry are involved. There is an objection by the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, it is not essential, but I think there is room to consider it, because this law may need to be formulated as a law of internal affairs, not a law on police, because it treats domestic affairs, not the law on police, because it also treats domestic affairs, not just police affairs. Perhaps this and some of my suggestions that some, above all, opposition MPs would encounter is a knife, and I resent that you have not prescribed sanctions for the occurrence of reporting information from cases that are in progress or for leaks of information. I think it would make it easier for you as a minister, and you, for some reason, have avoided sanctioning that phenomenon that is causing damage, you will agree to the reputation of the Ministry and the police. There have been objections here, also from some opposition MPs that local self-government should propose who will be chief of police administrations in these local self-governments. You know what? This is highly unacceptable, because the principle of subordination and the principle of responsibility would be totally violated. Then the chief of police would answer whether the head of local self-government or you as a minister or a police director, and secondly, to whom he would answer for failures and to order him to do so, if the president of the municipality were to issue tasks to them, it is totally unacceptable, it is an essential ignorance of police functions and I believe that you have received it. And in the end of these checks, you have clearly defined that checking is done for sensitive jobs on the levels of one of the types of checks and that the most intense, or most difficult checks are performed for sensitive jobs, for which these checks are more present in the police of other countries. All in all, from the entire discussion of my predecessors today, I think my fellow MPs will agree that this is a very good proposal for a law on police and a parliamentary group of SNS in the voting day will certainly support this bill because it leads to improving the efficiency, better organisation of police work and the entire MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46488	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46489	I'll try very concisely. The important topic is what you said about controlling central registers in terms of one day that there may be a system that local self-governments will be able to participate more actively in issuing personal documents. But today it's impossible. Today, this kind of electronic administration or a kind of portal where all entities in the state that make up the electronic administration could be involved so that we, in fact, could, in accordance with a certain level of authority as an operator, be able to verify that someone has a ban on issuing a driver's license and that you have only that information, that you can't see from what or what, but we're not ready for it today as a state. It's simply impossible and, of course, it's an expensive thing that requires that in all local self-government units, such a kind of network is being imported, that all state entities, all ministries, access one such base, and give their bases, to do them electronically in a way that they can participate in that kind of communication, and that will be a challenge for all of us. That's good. We started with this system, as the Ministry started, let's say passing driver's exams in a way that from car schools, access to databases and servers, and it was in some car schools of problems, they purchased, when the test was done, the first Internet that was the speed needed for good communication, but because of the price, after a few days or a few weeks, they reduced the level of Internet flow and of course that system started to cause problems and they couldn't make communication. There are mistakes and human factors somewhere, but it's a new system. Every new system takes some time for it to start working perfectly. After all, it's something people have to get used to. As for leaks of information, we tried to solve through a major violation of official duty, to predict leaks of classified information, to treat in such a way, but this is one of the topics for which I repeatedly sought the support of society. What's the essential question? You have a communication between a police officer and a journalist and that policeman gives information from an investigation to a certain journalist, editor or their associate, and you are at great risk to see, if you want to call, that a newspaper has published a text, what the prosecution might give as a request to collect information, that you call a certain journalist or editor, that he informs the person he received that kind of information from. The answer is always that they don't want to reveal the source of information and that's the end of your investigation, essentially. Everything else could be interpreted as pressure on the media and it's a very sensitive question, it's a touching job and the people of the police themselves, we haven't found the key to that solution, that you can do it completely legally, that no one suspects it's some kind of pressure, but that we just find out that it could have happened to warn the perpetrator of the crime too soon, and our principle in the Ministry is that when a certain arrest is carried out, then we're going out with information, because it's already an act that's finished and we're not putting people in danger, because these are the guys from the police who are going in, these strike teams and they, if they're expected, they can also prepare a fiery welcome, which they would say and hurt them. That's a tough subject. Just for a moment, in one sentence, the gendarmes are no longer special, but a special unit, but they don't lose anything in their status, not as far as receiving is concerned, only one is special, and it has four or five specials. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46490	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Sanja Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46491	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members and fellow MPs, today we have a brand-new Law on Police after 10 years, and since a large number of new institutes have been introduced in that period, this bill has actually brought into line with the existing recommendations and regulations. As a fundamental change, I would point out a reorganisation within the MUP, where it is clearly defined which are internal and what police affairs are. So police affairs will be in the jurisdiction of the Police Directorate, while all other transactions from the Ministry's work will be carried out by sectors. Which actually means dividing into police and internal affairs. In a division like this, police officers are clearly separated with the right to an underprivileged internship. So far, it has been the case that those who sit in the office and do no risky business have benefits as a street cop or the one on the administrative line with KIM, specifically, the gendarmes. Article 30 of this law clearly defines what police affairs are. Under police direction, there will be administrations, centres, special units and special units of police and outside the directorate, the Police Administration for the City of Belgrade, police administrations and police stations. A special anti-terrorist unit is under the direction, and special units are the gendarmes, the helicopter unit, the security unit of special facilities and personalities, while the police brigade is a special unit within the authority of the Belgrade Police Administration. The second paper in the law is career advancement, and my colleagues have already talked about it, but I would also highlight this amendment to the law. What does that mean? In contrast, what has been the practice so far, only those with the best work result, with an average score of four in the last three years, have been in one job for years and an appropriate rank, with the appropriate professional training, where they will have the advantage of having completed a criminal police academy or a law school and with professional direction. Such a system, the discretion of the manager is reduced to a minimum, and the results of work and efforts are the basis for career advancement. In addition, the law foresees significantly greater powers of the Internal Control Sector, which I consider to be one of the better changes in the law, in order to prevent police corruption, the Internal Control Sector, an application of the integrity test, conduct a risk analysis and check for changes in the property situation. In fact, it means that every M.P. executive will have to report property as well as any change in property, all of it in the way that so far those who perform public office, and we MPs, because I have to draw attention to cases, that someone who receives a police salary has property that he couldn't acquire by working in the police. The internal control sector, in co-operation with the Anti-Corruption Agency, will analyse the risk of corruption, and this kind of control of police officers will reduce corruption and reduce it to a minimum. In the end, I would like to introduce a member of the law that has never existed before, which defines the new conduct of the police in the event of domestic violence. When domestic violence is reported, the police officer is obliged to take all measures in collaboration with other competent authorities to prevent further violence, which may result in a fatal outcome, and we all testify that more than 30 women were killed in the last year alone. So far, there has been no legal basis in the existing law for the police to react even when it comes to domestic violence. I believe that in this way, primarily women, most often victims of violence, will be strengthened and reported by a bully. And finally, I want to point out, regardless of the many criticisms we have heard during today, that I think this is a good law and not only as a MP, but also as a citizen and I call on my colleagues and from the opposition to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46492	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador Susana Sarac. I apologize to Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46493	Thank you. A number of newspapers are expected to contribute significantly to improving quality in the performance of police and other affairs in the MUP. The law comes at the time of the implementation of the state administration rationalisation measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by applying this law it is possible to achieve and save within the tasked system in the ministry's work. Special attention is paid to preserving the functioning of the security system in all its aspects. The essence of the new concept is to separate jobs into, as my colleagues have already mentioned, internal affairs and police affairs. Accordingly, there has been recognition and categorization by organisational units in the sense that police work is done by police officers, and domestic affairs by police and state officials. Call and rank nomenclature is one of the elements of career advancement. The career advancement system is brand-new and as a ultimate goal it is for employees with the best work results to be in the relevant jobs in the hierarchy. How much attention is given to the construction of this system is also the fact that in the course of education, education and the human resources sector, which will have a career monitoring of employees from the moment of working relations, movements within the ministry, until the end of the working century. In this business, it seems to me that no one has mentioned to me so far, there is also a Criminal and Police Academy which, in addition to achieving study programmes for the needs of police education, deals with scientific and research activities in the area of criminal and police security sciences. The criminal and police academy is an accredited academy, and scientific and research activity is focused on research in the following areas that are very important: school violence, countering corruption, drug abuse and the crime of young people, high-tech crime, human rights, international police co-operation. What is very important is the publishing activity of the crime-police academy, and in which quality we could also see for ourselves at the previous Book Fair. In this way it is possible to advance in calling and skills and rest on the principles of professional planning, selection, selection and education in continuous learning and the establishment and development of a career advancement system of police officers. This is also very important for the career advancement of women in the security system, as it comes from constitutional principles, Articles 15 and 21. The Constitution, strategies to improve women's position and improve gender equality, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, the UN Council Resolution, as well as the practice of EU member states, introduced provisions that contribute to improving women's situation in the security system. As far as employee health care is concerned, there's only one thing I can stress. I had a lot of heart when I saw the press conference representatives of the MUP so equipped and I would like everyone, every single person who works in the field, to have good protective equipment, because their protective equipment is their good and modern weapons and tools and thus protect themselves. If they protect themselves well, they will protect all citizens of Serbia. Therefore, we are in favour of this and I think there is no question that at a press conference, the members of the MUP appear in such a composition and are equipped in such a way. It can only be the pride of a state. In addition, police officers at the Ministry also enjoy specific health care to the extent that it is not provided with compulsory health insurance, and stems from work on jobs, which agree with the Act on the risk assessment of life and health risks, responsibilities, weights, nature and special working conditions of significant impact on the reduction of work ability. The cost of this special protection, health care is borne by the Ministry. About preventive healthcare, I think I've said enough. New and detailed provisions on labour and labour relations are introduced a special, unique classification of jobs in the police compared to other state bodies. Police are a specific service that has special provisions on labour and labour relations for the reason that police officers carry out high-risk tasks, taking into account the quality of the performance of the task and the protection of the security of citizens, property, as well as the preservation of the work capacity and morals of members of the ministry. In particular, the education of the Solidarity Fund for Police Officers, which highlights the ministry's social role in relation to its employees, is being arranged. A new possibility has now been made for police officers to be assisted by funds from the Fund in the event of treatment or other living circumstances, which require additional costs. As for the internal control sector, more ancient Roman poet and satirist Decim Junije Juvenal said – quis custodiet ipsos custodes; which means – who will guard the guards. In order for things to be consistent and just to be guarded and supervised, all must be supervised by those who oversee others. This sector is given particular importance and is given greater authority and foresees to carry out practical integrity tests and depositing asset cards in the Ministry, with the possibility of checking and other employees, which significantly raises the level of control and level of insight into the property status data employed in order to combat corruption. The Police Directorate's jobs are also extended to the adoption of a strategic assessment and a strategic plan, which represents the introduction of a single planning system model, which would ultimately lead to the full application of the police-intelligence model, which is part of the EU's recommendation under Chapter 24. Police administration, as an organisational unit of police, is doing an operational security assessment in the area it covers, based on certain parameters and operational plan. Accordingly, the MUP has highly developed co-operation with the organisation units of local self-government, other state authorities and public authorities, legal and physical persons, as well as with international organisations, international community institutions. This complex concept of developed links, the Ministry with other security factors has also contributed to defining the model of police work, which is police in the community. The norm that sums up this model is -- police are developing co-operation and partnership with citizens and other community entities, in order to carry out police affairs and address local security priorities and underline the common interests and need to create a favourable security environment in the community, i.e. building a safe democratic society. The bill on police also provides for new police actions in the case of domestic violence, which my colleagues have also spoken of, and I think it will further facilitate the job of the police and allow them to provide adequate protection to victims of violence. What I'd like to mention in the end, it's also a process of finding things, which has not been regulated by any regulation so far, that this small part of it goes into this great law, but for someone who loses something, it can also be very significant. In the end, I would just like to thank all the members of the MUP for the organisational, human and professional work in the course of the ongoing migrant crisis, especially the members of the MUP engaged in the field, and in the country's security zone, who have taught the world how to honor police work, respect human rights, while at the same time protecting the security of their citizens. Thank you, Minister, thank you to all the members of the MUP, and the SNS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46494	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Sharac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46495	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, today we are discussing three very important draft laws: a draft law on police, a draft law on public order and peace, as well as a draft law on public gatherings. The government, as the responsible government and the MUP headed by Minister Stefanovic, in whose jurisdiction the laws have been cited, have come in one of the most fundamental and comprehensive ways to make all three draft laws that are on the agenda today. When it comes to the law on police, I say it for a reason because it has been done for a long time and many relevant factors are involved. Public debates have been held in several cities across Serbia, attended by professional associations, NGOs, academic public, representatives of all trade unions, representatives of the judiciary, media, and many others. This is a completely new one, and I can say freely according to my content and system law, also, a law that regulates police work and makes a lot of newspapers compared to the still existing law, which will indisputably contribute to improving the quality of the work of the MUP. The need for a new legal solution is reflected in the fact that a large number of new legal rules have been introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia for the past 10 years, as still in force. These are laws such as the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Infringements and others, as well as recommendations from competent authorities, such as the Recommendations of the Trustee, the Protector of Citizens, so that this bill complies with the regulations and recommendations. The law provides for a number of newspapers in terms of the organisation structure of the police, its powers, rules of career progress, control of the work of employees, new means of coercion, as well as a series of provisions stemming from compliance with the rules applicable to the EU. As for the organisational structure, there is a significant reorganisation of jobs. The point is to separate jobs into police and home affairs, which further stems from a simple division of officers to police officers and civil servants, which is a newspaper. So far, we've had police officers who had the status of an authorised official, who were further divided into unformed officials and authorized officials, and also had police officers who had PD status, i.e. Special duties and we had police officers without any authority, who were in fact what was called civil servants in the new legal solution. So we didn't essentially have real civil servants in the MUP. It's new and this law is completely defined. This law significantly strengthens the conditions for establishing a working relationship, which is very important, is no longer like until now that the fulfilment of these conditions is being checked only and only when employed in a working relationship, but in order to remain in a working relationship, it will have to meet all the time when it is employed in the MUP. Also, this bill provides for the obligation to carry out security checks for employees periodically, depending on the level of enforcement, i.e. I'm in charge. The dynamics of doing these checks are a direct proportion of the powers that employees have. All of this is aimed at reducing the number of crimes related to corruption by police officers, which is very important. We also expect these provisions of the law to raise awareness of the need for compliance with the law and to contribute to the fight against corruption. The law provides for the education of the new sector, and this is the human resources sector, which in its work cycle will have career progress and monitoring of employees in the ministry, from the moment of entry into labour, their movement within the ministry, until the end of their working relationship with the Ministry. At the very end, I can't help but mention, of course, in a very positive context, that a very good practice continues here in the National Assembly, when it comes to the MUP and the esteemed Minister Stefanovic, and it refers to the consultation of ministers with MPs and MP groups, and that from the ranks of the ruling majority, so from the opposition whenever laws are entered into our procedure for which the minister and the MUP are responsible. I think it's a great practice that's already yielding results and that other ministers have begun to follow, which is commendable. Of course, in the voting day, for all of these reasons, and also the reasons that have been stated by my esteemed colleagues, the SNS will support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46496	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46497	Thank you, Mrs. Charac, for understanding well what we wanted to achieve with this law. I wanted to share one for me, I'd say, a pleasant surprise, something I think is a good practice. When I look at the list of speakers for today's session, and I look at both members of the government and the opposition, when I look at what number of ladies are participating in the debate, that there are half or more of them, I think that's one encouraging thing and I think it's a very good signal, something that we've been working on and something that we're promoting in parliament, but of course we're also promoting in the work of the police. I can tell you that today more than 20% of the police are present at the police station. It's not enough yet, but compared to some previous times, everything is more and more, let me say, more significant places. I'm trying to help as much as I can in this process. Of course, it takes everyone's help, but thank you to those ladies who have given up today in terms of saving time, I'm so experiencing it, but regardless, being on the list means a lot to me, and I can see that it was my intention to actively engage in this, and I truly appreciate it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46498	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46499	Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, dear fellow MPs, I am deeply convinced that the solutions offered by the Police Bill aim to further professionalise this very important segment of society. On the contrary to all the recently respected government led by our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, who entrusted the police portfolio to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, just along with him made the reputation and perception of the police by citizens grow more than continuously and continuously. Used to a high degree of use by the state authorities in the tightst interests, today's opposition wasn't even in mind that some set of authorities could have completely different ideas and intentions. That's why affairs are invented, theories that rarely border on science fiction, even in our conditions where no sensations have been missing for a long time. But whoever he's talking about, he's talking about himself. For us, citizens' representatives are the most important thing about what they think about it is the same citizens. The opposition has already become accustomed to ignoring the results of a public opinion survey, ignoring most of the messages that come from social networks, and then having the opportunity to convince the elections, in the spring when flowers and leaves of trees bloom, which still won't be able to hide the true state of things. Despite consciously ignoring the fact that the bill's proposals are created in line with the European agenda, disinformation about the alleged narrowing of personal and all other rights of citizens is being included in the public opinion, especially during the debate on the Law on Public Meetings. It's as if freedom of speech, for example, or the right to express views through freedom of assembly implies anarchy, anemia, chaos in which some so well cope, first of all, thanks to their revolutionary back-grand, with all those instructions and trainings about how power is destroyed. Only these lessons have long been learned and read, primarily by the majority public. Citizens, however, want something quite the opposite. They want an orderly society and a state where rights are known, as well as responsibilities, as well as any order, starting with the communal one, and who long ago realize that one's rights and freedoms stop when they start to threaten the freedoms of others. It's so everywhere in the civilized world, so it should be with us. As much as a group has the right to publicly express its views, it cannot endanger normal and any other functioning and meeting the needs of other citizens. No point. As for the Law on Public Order and Peace, I agree with the intended fines, for example, for begging and organising begging, but I have a proposal that fines, which are likely to turn into prison sanctions, be replaced by some future law, so-called. Socially useful work. I can't say no to regulation in the area of use, more specifically abuse of pyrotechnic means. I see in the bill that the measures are directed primarily at the users of firecrackers, rockets and other more imaginative pyrotechnic means. Of course, their use causes people to be harassed, including animals, if you will, but I would punish those who sell pyrotechnics the most strictly. It is simply not entrepreneurship, but a wild business which, apart from being in the gray economy, is socially dangerous, not only in public order and peace, but in the health and life of an individual, even when someone hurts themselves, will be guilty without talking about hurting another. I believe that citizens would strongly support a similar solution. For illustration here are the data from one daily list – more than 80% of visitors to this portal voted to ban the sale of these devices. Citizens rightly wonder how it is possible to sell pyrotechnics in the middle of town, in broad daylight, in the busiest places? The fact that only a market inspection with a well-known limited resource story is in charge of this trade is a lack of comfort. This phenomenon must be eradicated by real and long-term sustainable measures, not simply by punishing users, among which children are most often. In the end, endangering public order and peace with noise from catering facilities. Of course, citizens from nearby housing have the right to peace, but there is what we call "low passions". For example, he likes his neighbor to report to a neighbor whose family lives off that catering facility. That's why I think the solution to these and similar problems is not mostly in punishment, but in the area of tightening the conditions for issuing permits for such and similar objects, and it starts from the location. They must not be in the middle of the city zone and have permission to work at night, but that the facility must be adapted so that it has maximum sound insulation. This would, of course, cause additional costs to the caterers, but they would certainly be higher than the penalties, and most importantly, they would protect the surrounding citizens from unwanted noise. Once again, me and the SNS will be happy to support these laws, especially the Police Act, which we consider to be a huge step forward in order to professionalise this very important segment of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46500	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46501	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, today we've been listening to what's right and it seems to me that a long time ago a law has not interested the MPs, such as this set of laws, above all, the Police Act. I've prepared myself, as well as many respected colleagues who have said a lot of good things about these laws, to say the least. But listening to them, I think it's too much to repeat, and then I'm going to make a kind of parallel. First, first of all, thanks to the experts working on the preparation of these laws and possibly the important help of Mrs Jane Ljubicic, whom I do not think anyone mentioned today, and who is certainly with his great experience, expertise, which was an outstanding and favorite secretary of the National Assembly, it is certain that the stamp of the distinguished lady is also visible here. We, as a parliamentary group, simply without a shred of pathetics, were fantasizing about the day when we would have a debate about the Police Act in this way. For what? We, as a political party, are primarily interested in certain trends in society. Because of the trends set up with the government of Mr. Vukic, we do not normally support this government, we support it with both hands and because the trends and results carried out by this government are good and what the SPO has been up for since its founding. What did we advocate about the Serbian police? I did little studying the Serbian police history that, as in all institutions, as in all societies, as in all police around the world, there were different trends in the Serbian police. From Nemnjević, who in the 14th century formed some kind of police officers who were dressed in black and on roads protected citizens and travelers from robbers, to a Turkish constitution that effectively enabled the formation of a MUP, from the formation of a Belgrade police force that existed until 1990 and who, for those 180 and a few years of existence, truly achieved one purpose and purpose of existence and was especially celebrated in 1862 with famous events at the Chukur Cesmi. We are witnessing that just 15 or 16 years ago in our society, when children play, it was unpopular to be a cop, but it was popular to be a criminal, and because the entire state atmosphere forced the worst in our society. The price was paid by all citizens, but the price was also paid by the members of the MUP, somehow by abolishing KIM's autonomy when the then interior minister, who arrested 18 state security officers who abused their position, who had his phone book and responded to every phone call and had police in the late '80s, as the main task was to create excessive noise. But then we went into the total criminalization of society and the criminalization of the police themselves, and for which we are the least guilty police officers and then, in the '90s, we heard one thing and the same thing – we just want to do our job and get paid for it, to abide by the Constitution and the law. However, the state did not want that, so let's say the police who were born in Bosnia and Croatia conditioned them to go there to the battlefield under the threat of losing their jobs. Same thing happened to the cops who came from KIM. The vicious circle closed, the police and the crime at one point were melted to the point where we didn't know who the cop was anymore, who the criminal and fortunately it started to change, but it seems to us, the best way since you came to the head of the MUP, and we were very, very much like you, you probably knew that you were facing great challenges, but since I'm on the Defence and Security Committee, I know how complex this is, a big system, how difficult these are tasks. Here is also in all new challenges of world friends from the EU, from the International Community, above all, they gave recognition to the Serbian police for their actions and above all in dealing with immigrants. Now, after such a bad era today, we have some sweet tasks, to deal with whether the law is called police law or internal affairs, then what are the trends of police development, whether police should be modernised in one way or another, how do we continue the process of police integration into citizenship, parliamentary police control, civilian police-led, civilian face, internal control, union-organised police, that was really unimaginable until a year ago. You have brought a modern, liberal, good law that will first and foremost enable all members of the police to take care of the personal and property security of all citizens to comply with the Constitution and the law and therefore to be paid. To advance on the basis of no political similarities, not that they are forced by a certain tycoon, a criminal to finish some dirty work, in the name of the state, you have already made a career progress, but when we have spoken to many foreigners who have previously done so well to the police and, above all, the internal control sector, and when we have visited some countries that have internal control, we have seen that our internal control sector by organization, by the staff, etc., is much less lagging behind, that those who enforce the law need to control and that indeed this is something that SPO is going to say as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group. Thank you, Minister, while you're doing this, you'll have the full support of the SPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46502	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. He's not here. National MP Momo Colaković. He's not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46503	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, this discussion has just proven that we are from the opposition who have paid attention to certain members of the law to the fullest extent possible. Mr. Minister, you have indirectly agreed with what I have stated as an objection, which is that this law is unfortunately not as having given full reform capacity, at least in one part of my discussion, which is in the part concerning the discharge of the MUP from bureaucracy, and in relation to the issue of various documents, let's say, traffic and driving permits. The excuse that it is currently impossible to do this is considered incompetence, I told you a year and a half ago. So in a year and a half you could have prepared it, unfortunately you didn't. Which is why, I'm saying because I don't think you had the ability to be the one who couldn't apply it or you didn't have any associates who could do it, I don't know it, but it doesn't really matter to the citizens of Serbia. What's more important is that you understand the mistake and it's good to think now in the direction that it is done in some future period and I expect the future minister to make changes and supplement this law and finally make that thing better. You said in article 223 you practically made this law mandatory to the local self-government to consider the report. Report or adoption, information is being considered, but I don't know what member you've committed to the MUP, or police departments, or police stations to deliver information to local self-government, because I can't find it, I keep looking. I understand that in 223 local self-government gets the obligation to, can't discuss it, can adopt it, or to consider information, but I don't know what member they have the obligation to deliver it in. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you brought one thing out here, and I'm glad that you've been contacted on social networks by students of the Criminal Police Academy with a question - why didn't a student sign a contract with the MUP this year? As they say, which is a public network, everyone can read, no member of the Criminal Police Academy has signed a contract with the MUP, which means he won't be employed, if I understand correctly. I remind you, we advocate that all students, cadets or piets, as you call them, I don't know, who enroll in the Criminal Police Academy, by automatedism be admitted to the M.E.P.D., because that's something that's important on one side, and that's young men and girls who went through all triages, all checked out, trained to be cops, and I don't see why the state is training them unless there's a personnel plan that needs to be done, and then you know exactly what amount of territory they're schooling from. You haven't explained it to me, and I'm sure it concerns all the people who sit next to you, who are cops or work at the ministry, why are police officers in Serbia discriminated against other representatives of our society? Why would only cops get fired if they're being prosecuted? It's something that threatens the presummation of innocence. I'll remind you that even today, there are certain numbers of officers against whom the proceedings have been conducted, who have been released and who have not been returned to the workplace. It's a very bad thing. I think there's going to be a lot of trouble in police handling, people will be acting by fear of using their powers in terms of possible prosecution as we have a situation with the gendarmes who, by this point of law, would all lose their jobs, and we know that they were doing their job the day of the incident. Also, I don't have any dilemma in trying to talk here about the local community asking about the choice of local police chief. I don't know which one of the opposition said that, and I'm saying no one said it. And you, and your colleagues... (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Borko. Who? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Borko. Here? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So none of us presently spoke that way. We were just saying that local self-government should have a certain impact on the security policy in the territory of local self-government, which I think is completely logical. These people know best what threatens them, what threatens their families, their children, and I don't see why that would be controversial. Otherwise, for those who do not know, at some Tito's time called upon by a large number of Serbian citizens, and even some MPs, local self-government asked directly about the election of secretaries, such as the city's city in Belgrade or the local interior secretary across Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. You didn't answer me either, how do you propose to approve a meeting where the organizer should allow a safe passage to the public carrier? I understand the police, the military, the ambulance and the firepower, but if they have to be approved by bus and taxis, what kind of approval is that together? What does that mean? How can this be done? I'm also curious, how do you think the organizer can ensure the safe arrival of everyone who comes to the rally? It's completely pointless, and I don't know how doable it is, that everyone who comes to the gathering has one next to him who guards him and makes sure something doesn't happen when he comes to the rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46504	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46505	It just doesn't work. We believe and have a large number of amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46506	Mr. Sutanovac, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46507	I'm sorry. Did I waste my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46508	You spent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46509	Dear fellow, you are very correct when you chair, I return in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46510	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46511	As for these personal documents, I tried to discuss it with MP Momir Stojanovic, or to answer. The point isn't just the M.O.P. In order for you to have access to local self-government to issue a particular document, it must have access to all databases from all over the country, tax administration, ministries, local self-government. This system tells you if anyone has the right to, whether they paid taxes, whether they settled debts, and then that operator in the system has that pooled data at the level of access to that data that the law allows. That's how it works when you have an electronic control and then you can applicate it from home, the operator answers it, and it goes fast. We're working on it. Unfortunately, the state has not been able to perfect this system in any previous period. I wish it were, but it just isn't. Although, the electronics administration will certainly be the future and that's something we have to work on. It's expensive, it takes a lot of training, requires techniques, money, but it's definitely something that means a lot to citizens. As far as the KPA is concerned, it's just the personnel plan. We have a situation that KPA is an open university, so free university, which can enroll anyone. It can register 500 citizens, 1,000 citizens, and they all end up KPA. Well, we can't hire 1,000 of them because they've graduated from college, but exactly every year, as we've given an estimate for next year or last year, I'll agree, let's say 23 people from exactly the police departments that are needed for the needs of police training in those places, and 23 will get the best chance to get jobs. It is not until this year, after the adoption of this law, that different personnel work begins, but the goal is to have people we follow. You know, he puts down the best man, signs a KPA out of that place, but he falls a year, doesn't end, has a worse average, why would the police settle for a worse one, if he can get a better one? That's how it's going to stimulate, so to speak, some kind of competition within the KPA, and, of course, we're going to tell people clearly how many cops we need to do that kind of profession, that direction, that education that we need to work with. Just because someone's finished doesn't mean the state has a need for it. As a police officer who during the course of his duties, let's say employed with secondary professional training, finishes some college, and he says – I'm a college graduate, I have to be recognized by the university. That may not be the need of the state. That's not the need of the M.O.P. We need that middle-aged cop who's doing those jobs. The fact that a man worked on himself, it's commendable, but the state doesn't need it, and maybe she didn't plan to pay him that much, since if you give him high-end expertise, it increases salary and all that, and you don't have it in the budget. It's just things that people have to consider. As far as the contract is concerned, we have contracted with the KPA primarily in terms of those people who have schooling or in any other way in the course of working relationship go to additional training on the KPA and I can say that they continue working relationship, but those people who enroll in the KPA will be ranked primarily for their success and knowledge. As far as local police are concerned, let me say once again, it was possible that there was a single-party system in Serbia that local self-government, the City of Belgrade, was all proposing these human resources, which are going through the same party system anyway, and that these people are being chosen by that system. Once upon a time, I also talked about it with colleagues who were long in the MUP, once it was enough for the police to fire them at the time that the party organisation would give a negative stance on that police manager and he was losing his job at the police. No complaints, no courts. He called to come, told him that he was no longer fit to work with the police, and he was happy if he went home peacefully and had no further consequences. In such a system, it was possible. Today, I had a system in which local self-government through security committees, which forms on its territory, in which a member, or police station chief, or police administration, is involved, gives his opinion on work and problems. After all, the police wouldn't listen if you didn't listen. Because, you know, who's in the interest of having an incompetent police station chief or police department, or someone who's party or in any other way similar, unable to implement what's important to the citizens? Well, in that local environment, citizens will also lose their trust in that country and that authority that put up such a man, and that authority would undermine itself in a way that brings a man who can't enforce the law to have more security, public order and peace and everything else. So you have to listen, i.e. to listen to what the problems of local self-government are, but local self-government or territory of any administration other than the MUP cannot influence the choice of staff. Because, believe me, it all comes down to that when you demarcate and you talk, everyone says, well, well, but we actually want to choose this man because I need my man to drive through the city 200, that when he stops telling me – friend, let's get it over with, you don't have to, or when I do some offense or criminal act, get it out of the way a little bit, etc. Well, that's not exactly what we're gonna do. We want the president of the municipality to be just as afraid when he breaks the law and the consequences of that violation of the law as any other citizen, not that he chooses it and whether it will process it or not. So we have to have law enforcement that way. As for the presupposition of innocence, we had a member of the 168th former law, of the previous law, or of the current law, Article 168. The law on police which predicted that in the event of proceedings being prosecuted by official duty, that it could, therefore, not be a matter of a private criminal complaint to you, then you could fire all the people in this country, raise any criminal charges, every morning you can press charges against someone, but when the prosecution initiates criminal charges for an act being prosecuted by official duty, based on a member of the 168th, or the current Police Act, which has been deleted in the meantime, people have lost their jobs. In 2008, I think at the end of 2008, the Constitutional Court appreciated and ruled that it was a constitutional way of losing a job and a legal way. No verdict was made to bring these people back to work who lost their jobs under Article 168. Later, due to a deal with the unions and a more liberal approach, the member has been deleted and is no longer returned. So there was a security issue at the time, because it was calculated that the D.A. wouldn't exactly initiate a case against you that was being prosecuted by official duty because they didn't have anything better to do that day. I'm not saying that that's the whole thing that's going to be in 100% of cases fair, I'm sure it's not, because some of the trials against these people can end up being acquittal, so they'd be so damaged, it's a fact, but we've come into one situation that there's police knowledge that you know that people sit with criminals, that they're doing different jobs together, that you can't prove it even though you have the knowledge that it's like that and that you have to put up with people, even sometimes you have to keep them in the police for 2/3 of five to ten years, until the trial is over, and they're sitting at home, receiving 2/3 of the salary and no one at all. So, a process in which you can remove grain from the weeds, in which you need to decriminalize the police, must give the police greater authority. We've predicted through this law as one of the most important security clearances conducted by the security services and the police. So it's not just one service. And, when there's a security disturbance, when the services say - this man, we saw him, here he sits, what's a cop gonna do with a leader of the drug clan? He can tell that they've known each other since childhood, that they sat in a elementary school together in a bench, but he can't tell me that there's no knowledge that it's a man who's from a crime scene and that he sits with him every day for noble reasons. It's just that a cop can't afford it. These are the restrictions when you define yourself to be a cop, those are the limits in life you have to have. You can't let yourself go into such an environment, you can't let yourself see people in such an environment, because a cop can't afford it. It's just like that. Now, make a balance between all of that we've tried our best. In any case, this 2008 Constitutional Court ruling has shown us that this logic is not wrong in that regard. We'll try to make every case look at everything and the disciplinary commissions and all those who do this work in the Ministry, so we don't damage anyone. No one's goal is to harm a good worker as well as any firm, as well as any body. A good worker makes you better. I'm a good minister if the police are making a good result, among other things. If the police aren't making a good result, I can do a great, perfect finance sector in the MUP, that ordinary people won't even feel it, they'll see that the police are doing their job badly. My goal, as well as the goal of anyone who manages a good system, is to keep a good worker to him, so that those who know the job well, who is honest, honest, right, that these people stay. For someone to put away a good cop who does his job well, cutting off the branch he's sitting on. If all his cops are bad, corrupt, so they can't produce any results, a corrupt cop won't engage in the fight against corruption, and that's quite clear. Now, after six months in the police you can see it very, very quickly, you can't have results if you start to get results in six months you see it and it's like on white paper, on white canvas a black stain, you see it right now, absolutely. You've had drug seizures that are so big they start in that city to fall dramatically and no more grams. You have security on the street all of a sudden they show up, I don't know how many muggings, public order and peace violations, not the police, it's immediately visible, it shouldn't take years, a few months, and you see that you don't have people you can do it with. Happy because there are really a lot of professionals in the police doing their job well, I'm going to try to make it possible for them and give them all the conditions that the police are doing a good job. Is everything going to be perfect? I'm sure there is no ideal man, let alone an ideal system in which so many people work, but to make it as ideal, to make it optimal, to make it as good for police workers as possible, but above all for citizens, because these laws also mean protecting their rights. As far as police meetings are concerned, because of their understanding, they do not approve of meetings, the police can only ban them if there are reasons, or the police believe they have, there are reasons for that. So we don't approve of them. They are at the moment of their application, they are believed to have been accepted, their application until the moment of the ban decision, after which they can appeal, to say in the first degree of the ministry, and then to the court, and thus we have ensured that anyone who holds the meeting protects that he can hold a meeting. As far as public transport is concerned, it is understood that if someone holds a two- or three-hour rally at a traffic station that this traffic station will be rerouted to traffic and it is completely natural and completely normal, but of course it can't be 18 hours and 30 hours in a traffic station and that it does not violate other people's rights, simply that whoever keeps the meeting must be aware, sorry you can't block half of Belgrade, because you want to be in a place for 30 hours. It's not simple, it's not correct, and of course we're knowingly jeopardizing other people's rights, and that's why it's a balance that needs to be appreciated. We've allowed everything, but those people who organize the rally have to take part of the responsibility. At certain events, you had redistribution services waiting for the police to ask – do you have tickets and search you. That's the job of the director's office. How do you get torches into stadiums? They're taken by someone who organizes a game, or who has access to official rooms, to club rooms, those people bring it in, they don't create themselves. Now, when these directorial services do their job professionally, then, because they're paid for it, then we'll have less problems. This is how everyone expects the police to do the job of the director's office, and someone else to get paid for it, and then we become a free service for everyone. The police have a certain price. So, everything cops do costs every citizen of this country. When you send 100 cops out today, you know how many of their journals, travel expenses, equipment waste, vehicles, fuel, everything that goes for them, after all, that they're in some place that day, and they don't work on other regular jobs, when we have 500 officers guarding a single game, that's five hundred cops who don't patrol the streets, don't work to contain any criminal acts, or even if we have more security in the streets through the patronage, and it costs it. In order to shape all this, we have made an effort to predict obligations and organizations together, and organizers together must be aware that when they organize the meeting they have some precautions, after all, know why they organize the gathering. I can't believe someone's setting up a meeting with the awareness that they're going to break the law in advance. So, I guess it comes from doing everything in accordance with the law and ensuring a peaceful separation, means that it affects all these people not to violate public order and peace. If these people violate public order and peace in dissenting, it is, of course, gatherings that are not subject to registration. When you report a rally of police assessing the measures, separates a number of people who provide the rally, and you organize an assembly that you don't want to report to the police, you have to take some responsibility for yourself. You can't say, there's no responsibility. Then what about the people who go out and break windows? Tomorrow, people will say, "Well, where were the police?" Well, where she's been, how do I know about that meeting? You have no legal duty to report it. The police can't guess where anyone's holding a rally. The event can be with 30 people, imagine how many gatherings with 30 people can be held today in Serbia and in any room where it is held in a home of culture, in an O.R., in anything. You don't get to report what's right, it's constitutional, but then you have to have the responsibility that when these people leave together they won't go down that street to break everything down. You must have some responsibility. You can't just switch to someone else in Serbia and let's let the police handle it. So, tomorrow where this is, where it is, I'm sorry, you didn't inform us when you were making a mess, and now you're calling us to be responsible for us solving all these problems. It can't. So we're prescribing fines. You don't feel able to organize a meeting without reporting and to answer for it. Then don't organize a meeting or report it to the police. He doesn't say he can't report it, he says he doesn't have to, but he can report it to the police. I'm not in a position to organize a meeting, I don't know if I'm going to be able to arrange a peaceful separation after that, I want to inform the police and provide enough public order and peace forces. That's when it's already in police jurisdiction. If we don't know about the rally, we can't even secure it. It's just that these are things that the law clearly defines. For the first time in a very clear way, it stipulates that all participants and police, by various laws and by the Constitution and everything else, have the responsibility and organizer, or the leader of the gathering, because they simply need to know when there is something to organise that there are possible consequences, that it is pre-arranged through saying security together, but also by acting on the orders of the national authorities, as far as there is a danger that this assembly will turn into something that is against the law. What is good is that we have the opportunity for people to get together anywhere, there is enough space in Serbia to express different wills and thoughts. As far as I know, as a member of the government, so far, more meetings have been organized in front of the government, and there's a rally every week. People come in, they get together, they say what they think, they bring in the banners, they support something, they criticize something. They say they're gone and no one's been damaged. Of course there'll be a little more traffic on the street. That's what people who live and work here must understand, they have to endure, but when it's two or three hours, it's perfectly natural and can withstand both sirens and noise and gathering. If it were 15 hours, then the people who live in those streets could say sorry, and human rights, I want to move normally, I want to start my car, and I don't want to risk someone breaking my car because they don't want to see me, going through it. I just drive a woman to a doctor, I want to go with my child, I have the right to behave like that. If we are enough as a people to have awareness of it and if we are tolerant to each other then none of these scenes will be bad and will be violent and there will be police interventions in a minimum number of cases. Please hold your meeting when someone's finished, someone else will come. I never understood this int – e, my meeting must be at the same time, the same place as these others organize even though you know that people will conflict over it. I don't care, I've got a point to make. That's not good. Whoever it is is not good at all. It's important that people have awareness that our moves have some consequences. It is not good when these consequences are violent and when some people can get hurt because of it, so it is important to understand the essence of this law. I'm sorry I took a little too long. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Please, I'm badly interpreted in two things.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46512	You're badly interpreted in two things? Did the minister get you wrong? All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46513	Mr. Minister, I guess we didn't get along. We're not for local self-government to be asked when choosing a local chief of police, to be very precise and clear, but I'm also going to give you five reasons why you shouldn't, and I'm going to give you an example, let's say the UK where local self-government is directly asked about the choice of local police chief. I don't think it's an argument you're using to say that the president of the local community is going to be the bizarre cop who can't process him legally afterwards. A police officer is a man who needs to work under the law if he's the president of the municipality. But what's more important to me here, this story about the presummation of innocence. I see colleagues from the police nod their heads. I'd understand if you'd say it was a crime that was committed in the first place. So we have a situation at the rally in 2008, excessive force use. Right? He's on trial for that. The prosecutor has brought proceedings against whom? Against the gendarmes. Did he file a case against the rally organizer? It's not. For what? Because politics is involved. Gentlemen, how do you think this is, why don't we suggest something for you? So the crime that the prosecutor is prosecuted by official duty can be done out of indiscretion. You just spoke, if a cop sits with a criminal. First of all, the ones from the operation that are working, let's say in the city's SUP, they'll tell you that each of the cops is sitting with a criminal, and that's not even a felony. The question is why they're sitting down. So we're talking about crimes. I think this law makes it practically impossible for the police to do their job freely. You understand, he's free to do his job, because if he does someone at the prosecution's discretion, he'll get fired. In a court of law, they're not to blame. What's going on with that family?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46514	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46515	And he passed all the triage to work with the police. Please think, not for the citizens, but for the people who work in the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46516	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46517	I just have to disagree with you. Really not all cops sit with criminals, and those who do so on official duty, keep official notes on it, report to their bosses and contacts and have a report from that meeting. I'm worried about those cops who sit around for days and don't have a sentence for their boss, nor do the bosses know why they're working as security for these criminals, then when you catch them working with them, they say, so I'm actually hanging out with him, dating him on rafts, so we hang out and then there's no record of it. When you have a report that says, yes, approached that person, gave information or worked as a covert investigator, it is that no one slows it down, but there is disfellowshipping. We have a problem there when they do it consciously, with the intention of protecting those criminals. You know how it works, in some structures you're not a naive man and you know, you worked in the security sector. They care about someone who has a badge and someone who can carry a weapon. In case of a situation that can protect them or protect them, or from the law enforcement, in the sense of a search or transfer them to a substance, or something like that. It's not a crime, but how, then all the cops would have the right to do it and make extra money and say we have uncriminal police, and you know that's not the case. If this were to happen to let the cops, let's tell them, come sit with the criminals, what's wrong, what kind of reputation the police would have, especially in some small place, where he's looking at him, that's what people tell me in the stands, so we watch him, he sits with a criminal at the table, and I have to trust that he'll process him. They're drinking drinks together. No way. No one's gonna believe that. So we have to tell the police clearly, no, this is a line, sorry, people had some choice in life, they made the wrong choice, you can't sit with them. It's simple, it's a job request. You can't, don't work with the police. You hire people in private, but they won't hire them if they don't have a badge. They only find him interesting when he has a badge. When he doesn't have a badge, he's a member of the FTO, he's no longer interested in it. So, we need to find this solution that will be prescribed to the police officers, as we are going to prescribe to this law and sublegal acts of work incompatible with police duties, and then we have a police officer who knows, I can do this after hours, if I have strength, will, I can work as a security guard, under certain conditions, I have reported to the elder, I have no security concerns, but I can't do private security for someone who's convicted or suspected of the most serious crimes, because then it violates the reputation of the police. Simply, when a man knows the clear rules of the game, those rules of the game are prescribed, then we have no more problems. We simply have to bring the police to such a level as law enforcement, police on the one hand, and crime on the other. There's no mix. There's only a mix where the law allows, or where there's communication that leads to better informing the police. I'm not saying cops don't communicate with criminals in order to find out any other crimes, informants' networks and anything else. Of course there is, but it's regulated by law and it's known that a police officer in that case is acting and ultimately, there's someone who knows, he also informs the prosecutor in those contacts. When that's not there, and you suddenly have someone who doesn't have a documentary meeting, no predictions, no reports, then there's no word on data collection, then it's something else. So we're trying to send a clear signal to the police - don't do that. Just don't do it. The citizens of Serbia will be safer, secondly, the criminals will end up, because then the safer and the more boastful behaves, the one we have on the payroll, we keep this here, we keep it there. That's not good. We've had cases like this, we've processed a lot of them over the past year and a half, as far as I know, a lot. Then you have a situation that I personally convinced myself that this situation is not great and it's not great, but that when you tell people clearly what the rules of the game are, then they won't fall into traps either. It hasn't been sanctioned so far. My colleague did it 100 times, took the money, which I wouldn't. Now he can't. He must know there's a point. And that's good for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46518	Thank you. The word is Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46519	I thank the chairman. Mr. Ministers, I must say that the arguments presented today by the opposition have convinced the Socialist Party of Serbia that it has made the right decision to support these three draft laws: the police, the law on public gathering and the law on public order and peace. The main concern, the opposition's biggest argument was about extending the interior minister's jurisdiction. However, if you compare these two laws, the existing law and the law proposed by this law, in Article 8, of the existing law, and in Article 14, it is true that the powers of the minister have been reduced. In some discussions, it was the idea to give the minister authority by bringing in sublegal acts. There will be a proposal, or amendment, not by the minister, but by the ministry. This kind of amendment can be brought by someone who has absolutely no experience in the management of any state body. Maybe I can't even tell the state authorities, but any legal entity in the country. Because how can the Ministry pass any sublegal act? By signing all 40 and a few thousand employees at the Ministry? No, I don't. It's the minister who represents the Ministry. He's the one making decisions and sublaws. It's all regulated by law. Sublegal acts are those that explain and elaborate the law closer. Since I have little time left, we will discuss these things in more detail in the discussion in detail, in the debate in detail where we have about 500 amendments to these three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46520	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46521	Dear Chairman, I would really like to just ask one more question and take advantage of the opportunity you've set aside here all day for us. If I've noticed correctly in the Law of Public Order and Peace, vagrants have been cast out. It's something I think is a big problem for both Belgrade and more and more local self-government at all. We had, uh, circumstances, me personally, some problem with a man who's had a hard time getting sick. That's so far been within the scope of a misdemeanor procedure. We called the police. The police, of course, knew everything about him, could initiate the procedure, and that's where the whole story ended. The man had hepatitis. The man was HIV positive. So, absolutely someone walking the streets of Belgrade, and you can't do anything to him. My question is, in fact, where is that public order violation now, i.e. Security, in fact, all of us? It's clear to me that it can't be solved by the police, but maybe there's a way in between. We have adult shelters. We have shelters for children. What's really going on with the sick? Nor can you admit them to any facility, hospital, because I mean, they're dangerously ill. That kind of needs, I think it's something that's really becoming a big problem for Belgrade and I think that's just my question, how can it be solved to just all of us together protect ourselves? Because we were in a position to call the services, to disinfect, that it was simply very dangerous for the citizens of Belgrade. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46522	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46523	We have made a distinction here between the person who has the right to freedom of movement, so every citizen of this country and every visitor, the guest of this country, has the right to absolute freedom of movement and that freedom of movement can be completely unlimited. He can move 24 hours wherever he wants, wherever it's legal, of course, enabled. The only thing that matters here is why we ended it as an act, because there's an assumption that there's no breach of public order and peace. When there is a breach of public order and peace, then the provisions under that law apply, and otherwise, to such cases, to say, someone who is sick and says, in any way can move and can do whatever they want, but of course there should include some other services that, if they have knowledge, such as social work centres, if they have the knowledge that persons need help, that they may not even be aware enough that they need help and that there may be some damage to them, not by taking that help, there should be involved, there police there can provide some assistance, under certain circumstances, but we face that does not seek help, which does not wish to have any kind of freedom of movement, does not commit any offense or criminal act, with that face the police have nothing to do. So we can only determine the identity of the person and nothing else. That's what police powers are. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46524	Mrs. Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46525	I totally agree, and I totally understand what you just said to me, but it's definitely a problem that those social services that are involved in and whose job it is, they just can't accept it because it's sick, and it's going to endanger everyone else who's been present. So, in that sense, I'm telling you now about one case, of course, and I think maybe I've privatized this a little bit right now, I wouldn't want it to be understood that way, but I think there are a lot of those people in Belgrade who don't know what we're going to do. And that is, that police support is just necessary to maybe make a health solution and simply remove these people in some way. He doesn't mind, he works, but right now, we're really in danger. I don't want to go into the details, the threats we've been exposed to, but there was a whole building exposed to it. You know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46526	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46527	That's what I said at the beginning, sometimes when I became a minister I felt that whenever there was a problem that was not solved for most institutions, people came at the end and knocked at the police and said – please solve this problem. The police have, on condition, of course a limited mandate and the authority to take action. I understand that there is a problem that citizens feel, and it has to actually be co-operated by more state authorities. Only then is it possible, if there was some sort of, let me say, violation of the law in any way, we can act. Hardly, you know that these are complex and difficult questions, after all, you've been engaged in social protection for a long time, you know how sensitive that subject is, and of course it's an area that is intruding into human rights, and then you have to balance what is the human right of that person and what is possibly a violation of the law and where is the limit you're dealing with. A complex question, a really complex question, but we are trying as police, believe us, to help all state authorities and all other, of course, who ask for it, by solving these cases exactly, but here we must insist, of course, on the timely functioning of other state bodies that are in greater capacity to solve such a kind of problem. We are, after all, just an organ that can control the legality of the law, that is, respect of the law and, let me say, try to intercede to maintain public order and peace and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-18-0.u46528	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 3. The agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
