ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9989	Thank you. Your Honor, I would like to ask a few specific questions about agriculture today, since we have a set of agriculture laws. The issues would be directed specifically towards the Agricultural Advisory Service, the PSS service that works with us in Serbia and which is very important for agricultural producers. The specific issue goes to the Ministry of Agriculture - how does the Agricultural Professional Service plan to work on the education of agricultural producers, so that they can apply for the IPARD programme? Since today we are starting with a law that is very specific about the IPARD programme, about certain things, about new services, about controllers working on the IPARD programme, I would ask this question to the Ministry of Agriculture, because I am sure that the competent ministry, headed by Mr. Nedimovic, will give maximum support to the Agricultural Professional Service to be as close to the agricultural producers on the ground as possible and to work from this section specifically for the IPARD programme, to introduce people to the way it is done, to get to know people with the system as possible and how they compete. Normally, business plans should also work for agricultural producers who have the conditions to apply for the IPARD programme. For example, an example of good practice of the Agricultural Professional Service, advisory services, is also in Nis, the service doing its job has nine consultants and five other people doing professional work. I think the example of how it should be done is the Low Agricultural Professional Service, something similar to what the Niš Veterinary Institute is doing and working and doing maximum good for the benefit of all citizens of Southeast Serbia. Agricultural professional service and advisers in Nis are doing well, doing well, and I hope that we will have more resources in 2017 to help the Agricultural Professional Service and Advisors, that as many of our citizens, our agricultural producers living in southeastern Serbia, and throughout Serbia, can compete to obtain funds from the IPARD programme, because in this way they will have the opportunity to ensure the existence and development of agriculture in all parts of our country of Serbia, but I am speaking with the focus on southeastern Serbia, on mountainous and mountainous areas, because God is given there for agriculture, for medicinal plants, for livestock and for all other agricultural species. But the Agricultural Professional Service is very important and therefore it is necessary to put much greater emphasis on the development of the agricultural professional service. Here, let's say, another question. The problem of Agricultural Professional Service in Prokuplje, people are on strike and the question is the Minister – what will be done with the Director responsible for Prokuplje, will the problem of Agricultural Professional Services and people who entered the strike be solved? People want to work, people want to work for the benefit of all citizens and users of their services, and let's remember and know that the Buyout is very important for agriculture. There is also fruit and vegetables and livestock, and it will take a lot of time for the Agricultural Professional Service to work. The question is, will the problem with the director be solved? As I've heard from the people who work there, there's a big problem and there are some abuses, and the police have been informed. I'm interested in whether the problem with the director in Prokuplje will be solved, because it's the director who's been here seven or eight years, and I think it's necessary to help agriculture and find a way to get these people out of the problem, to stop the strike and start working normally, to tour the users, to tour the agricultural producers. We also have to remember those wings of Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, the man who gave his life for agriculture – as much knowledge as the property. So more knowledge and much better agricultural production will be done. Agricultural professional service is something we all have to work on. I hope that we will have the possibility that in the coming period of the people of the Agricultural Professional Service, advisors have the opportunity to work together with the controllers on the ground, and the controllers, these are the people who will be in front of the Agrarian Payments Administration, people who will be in charge of controlling what is necessary for the IPARD programme, because without such people, we have no success in agriculture. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9990	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9991	Honored citizens of Serbia, the Honored Chairman, fellow MPs, is helping God to help everyone. I would like to ask today the question to the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic and the Ministry of Industry, about a very characteristic case of bankruptcy that speaks of the robbery of the property of our businesses and speaks, of course, of workers who are not compensated in the right way. This is the case of the famous Rolling Bed Industry A.D. from Belgrade, IKL, which is otherwise almost daily protesting in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is time for their voice to be heard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, they speak and remind the prime minister of his promise to negotiate with the Israelis that he will pay the shareholders of the rolling-bed industry a relative share of their assets from the location in Belgrade, 23-25 Knez Danilova Street, on which a business housing facility is held and, of course, pre-charging squares at the price of 3,000 euros, and workers have not received their profits since 2001 and compensation for the value of shares of property that have been legally owned by more than one and a half decades. What's characteristic here? This is who knows what case in Serbia is that there is a judicial verdict in favour of workers, and that workers cannot exercise their rights even though there is a judicial verdict. Namely, the High Court's executive verdict in Belgrade, a special department of organised crime, for which shareholders themselves have fought by gathering evidence and raising criminal charges, resulting in a conviction, from June 12th 2015 until today. They asked for the decision-making and out-of-force of the IKL asset purchase agreement in the city center, but the prime minister asked them to, quote, to see that the Israeli man pays at least half the purchase price, so he'll be fine. On that occasion, he promised that an ICL shareholder delegation would be offered a legal framework to address the property demand problem within a month. Here, it's been a year and a half. The shareholders did not receive either the promised prime minister's legal framework, nor the outstanding earnings from 2001 to 2010, when the IKL was forced into bankruptcy, nor the related internship from 2004 to 2010, all followed by the Business Society Act and the Bank Act, which they deliberately pushed into to rob their assets. So I ask the question - who took 11m euros for IKL, i.e. to build a housing complex "Central Garden" which is one of the most attractive locations in Belgrade? Why hasn't the Prime Minister fulfilled his promise to shareholders, former IKL workers for a year and a half? The second issue also concerns Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Is Vucic allowed to assign diplomatic immunity to the staff of the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, to what they have the right, or was he blackmailed and has to fulfil NATO and Brussels alone? Is Vucic allowed to do anything that is in the interest of our citizens or does he have to work solely in the interest of Western power centers? How is it possible that the staff of this humanitarian centre, who solved so many problems of our then unactivated mines that were cleared in Serbia, over 1,500 explosive devices, who participated in various emergency situations, which humanitarianally aided Serbian and Serbian citizens, cannot get diplomatic immunity that, for example, was given to NATO, which your Western friends, yours, Vucician NATO friends, received? So, did Alexander Vukic, who humbly thanked NATO Secretary General and amnesty NATO for the crimes he committed against our citizens, our children, plan to introduce Serbia to NATO? Why is there no office for Russia and has offices for European integration, which gets new 200 million dinars in next year's budget? Why are there no negotiations on favourable economic arrangements with the Euro-Asian Economic Union? Why is there no better status in the organisation for agreed collective security and, overall, why must we not improve Serbia's strategic co-operation with Russia in a political, economic and security sense, but must we suffer further blackmail and pressure from Brussels? What is particularly important, a question for the Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic, who said that 11 hectares are sown by GMOs, we are interested – who owns the plot, how has the GMO seed arrived in Serbia, and when will the perpetrators who import genetically modified seeds and food into Serbia finally be punished?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9992	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9993	Thank you, Chairman. I have three questions. I refer the first two questions to the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Alexander Vulin. Namely, the first question is – in what capacity did the first national minorities living in Serbia titled "Mozaik Serbia" open on Saturday 9 December 2016? I'm interested in being answered - what is it in his jurisdiction and this ministry he currently cares about, what has anything to do with national minorities? The second question is also referred to Minister Voulina. Namely, where did he get the information he cited by opening the first national minority fair dedicated to Serbia's "Mozaik Serbia" on December 9th 2106, to issue 118 printed media in the languages of national minorities, of which 39 mixed, as well as to broadcast 8,000 programmes on 76 television channels, and 11,000 hours of the monthly programme in the languages of national minorities on 103 radio stations? I ask Minister Vulin to decidently respond to me, list and list all 118 printed media in the languages of national minorities and all 39 mixed, as well as to tell me exactly what 76 television channels broadcast 8,000 programs are, and what programs they are and what exactly they are 103 radio stations on which 11,000 hours of the monthly programme is broadcast in the languages of national minorities. The third question is referred to by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and on behalf of concerned citizens of Pančev in the Youth Meat Community area. Namely, when will the idea of building a new tour freight line Belgrade-Rangirna-Beli Potok-Vinca-Pančevo-Varoš and the plan of detailed regulation of the new tour freight line Belgrade-Rangirna-Beli Potok-Vančevo-Varoš, thus removing the route of the existing industrial track NIS Refinery of Pancevo, rather than planning to reconstruct and turn it into a public railway line in part through the area of the Mesna Community Youth in the town of Panchev? Namely, this existing plan will give citizens and citizens of this village two tracks and 25 walks a day to only six meters from their houses. That's why there's supposed to be a crash somewhere around 60 houses. Citizens fear that if this reconstruction occurs, their lives will be further threatened in a place where an industrial track with streets and pedestrian crossings are crossed because they are completely unsecured. They will be further threatened in the part where it is planned to move a part of the existing Pančevo-Vršac track, as it will be moved to a new location right next to the industrial track of the Pančevo oil refinery. Finally, the safety of their housing facilities, therefore, of 60 family houses, which were built in the immediate vicinity, was also compromised. What the citizens of this village, who were organised past the local self-government, who did not want to deal with this problem, therefore, the management of the town of Pancheva, received in response, or recommendation, when they were at a meeting at the rest of the ministry, is that access should be made to change the route of the industrial track, by removing the shortest track link to the Belgrade-Rangirna-Beli Potok-Pančevo-Varoš bypass. Such a proposal, therefore, according to the ministry's recommendation, was sent to the local government in Pancheva for an amendment and the local self-government agreed to co-finance the change of these plans, but since then it has been a year and a half, so since March of the month there is no information, and there is no information at all whether it has started to change these plans or any idea of when it will start with the announced works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9994	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9995	I would like to address the issue to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. In what status are student loans awarded by the Ministry of Education and Sports by decision to students, and through the authorised bank, the Universal Bank, which has been in bankruptcy since 3 February 2014? When and on what basis has there been a change in the power of the bank that has acted in the collection of the claims made under these contracts? When are credit users and how are they informed of the change in the authorised bank? Explanation – students, credit users, and according to the contracts concluded with the then Ministry of Education and Sports until the opening of the bankruptcy procedure of the Universal Bank, as authorized banks, received information and made payment of the war reached through the Universal Bank. However, until the bankruptcy procedure was opened, credit users were not informed which bank is now authorised, nor through which banks they can obtain information on whom to settle their obligations. At some point, credit users are completely unknown to the unified appearance of the Unicredit Bank of Serbia, which has become an authorised bank where credit users were able to inform and make payments for the war they won. As an authorised bank, Unicredit Bank has sent a notification to the creditor of the debt, as well as to the method of payment. In all issues, Unicredit Bank is not declared, but credit users refer exclusively to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development as a contractual side, and the Ministry did not answer exactly the questions asked how and how the Bank changed. It is necessary, therefore, that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development as a contracting party declares the status of these student loans, and in particular about calculating interest on the arrival of claims from 3 February 2014, until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9996	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9997	Thank you, Vice President. My question is about yesterday's and last night's events in Brussels. Of course, it is addressed to Prime Minister Aleksandr Vucic, who, according to our opinion, is particularly irresponsible, irresponsible and in an unacceptable way refers to the strategic definition of our citizens and our country, which is that Serbia becomes an EU member. The first question is, what happened yesterday in Brussels? Does the prime minister think he can put the needs of his election campaign, in which he is apparently behind the needs of the citizens? Can he understand that some things are more important than how he feels he should run an election campaign? Do I really think that the strutting strategy, like some kids in elementary school, is a serious state strategy? Did we first hear about those problems last night in Brussels? Was there any way we could have predicted them? Could we have solved them? Is Croatia the only country that has a problem with that now that we hear there are other countries? In conclusion, why has Serbia been unable to solve the problem of education of national minorities in their native languages for years? Whether Serbia has any other strategy than the children's strategy in primary school - I'll get angry, then I'll go home, and they'll see, they'll be sorry. Why should the entire public of Serbia now wait until six o'clock in the afternoon to hear what he is about to say to the nation? What kind of information did we, as citizens, have that he got angry and left Brussels? Is he paid for it or is it paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to run a responsible state policy? Whether, in the end, this move was made in general by the people to rejoice, because I see that general joy is in the media – here, we have now shown to the Croats, now they will remember us. Well, I'm just curious, what did we show by this? What did we demonstrate? In whose name did he get angry with what powers? What does he mean by that? Does he even think anything can be achieved by it or is it a single campaign and nothing more than that, as we believe in the DS? Was he aware when he went to the elections, and when he was defined for the EU, when he realized after 20 years that Osijek was not in Serbia and that the Berlin Wall had fallen, did he know that the EU was leading the conditionality policy? That there are certain conditions that a Member State should meet on its way to the EU? Does he think that we should meet these conditions in order to join the EU or because these are the conditions and things that Serbia normally needs to resolve, all of which he does not want to join the EU? Was he surprised by what he heard yesterday? Does he intend to continue to play with European integration and put them in the service of his pre-election campaign, because, you know, it's very much like that? When Marko Djuric says the books are entered in chapter 35, the reports of Edith Tahiri, when we hear from state officials – yes, we are for the EU, but. We in the DS believe that citizens have committed us to a much more serious approach to European integration, that it cannot be - but that anyone who is seriously involved in this process could understand what will happen, could predict it and could prevent it. That is our basic question – could Serbia have prevented what happened? Can he still do that? What's the plan to solve this problem? Do we think these things should be done? How will Minister Jadranka Joksimovic behave, ultimately, now that she has stayed there? Will she thank them and say that this is no longer our commitment? And we're asking the Prime Minister not to hear about this kind of thing through his pre-election campaign, but if we're going to have a session here, let's talk about it. The citizens of Serbia were very clear that we, as MPs, must not allow them to treat this strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia more responsibly than politicians. We ask this only out of concern for the process of European integration, because we think that this is how it is currently being run is not going in the right direction at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9998	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u9999	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, my first question is about the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In fact, there is one problem with companies. Companies are usually related to family, small family companies and as we know, companies have found their founders who are also co-owners of this company. Next, we have the Assembly, a company where founders participate in the work. There is one problem where the Pension Disabilities Fund, under official duty, must report all co-owners of these companies. So one company, let’s say, must be paid contributions to this work that they perform during these congregations in which they participate. However, there is one problem, which is that many co-owners of these companies are no longer in working relationship with these companies, let's say, have become pensioners or may have gone somewhere else, and the Pension invalidity fund continues to insist that they all have to be paid for it regardless of their own share. Someone has less ownership, someone has more, but compensation remains large. These often small companies know that there is a lot of pressure, so let's say, up to 70,000 dinars a year that they have to pay, even if co-owners don't work at all and don't participate in the Assembly, so they don't show up, they're gone, but they're still obliged to pay. It's a little illogical, and it's a huge imposition for these small companies. On the other hand, we have large stock companies, say, Airport or Telekom and they have no obligation to pay for their shareholders who are citizens of Serbia. Some companies have complained and asked for an additional opinion, an explanation of this member. Otherwise, this is a member of the Contribution Act that defines this, this payment. Then PIO responded and said that everyone should, so he stuck to it, that all of these contributions should be paid unless they were working at another job, another company, a company. Now there is still a problem with pensioners who do not work elsewhere but who do not participate in the Assembly, and yet for them these compensations should be paid. This all falls on the burden of these small companies, which are usually some family, let's say, conditionally speaking, and this is a huge cost for them and making their business a lot harder for them. So my Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, are they planning and is there an opportunity to change the Law on Contributions in order to define exactly what work means? Because these pensioners, for example, do not participate in the work of the congregation, and they are registered as members of the congregation, and it is a little complicated because the issue is unclear. The second question is generally for the government and concerns the workers of the Electronic Industry in Nis and many other companies of the type to which the state has not turned out to be correct and has not paid back wages. These workers, say in Nis, continue to protest every month outside the City Hall. They're always approached by some mayoral representatives, making some promises, and the niche doesn't happen. In this budget that we've adopted now, as far as I've seen, there's no point in paying those back salaries and I'm interested in it, it's a question for the government, is it planning to solve this problem? The answer is probably yes, sometimes sooner or later. I'm interested in when he's planning to solve it? So they should respect themselves because this is not right for this kind of pay to stand on hold, and we're giving some subsidies to all kinds of different companies. The last question is for the Assembly, this National, we have an e-parliament, a website that works great. The system we use here for all the documents works very well. We have a good search, we can see everything that's going on in the Assembly, and it would be good if, in the spirit of this transparency that we strongly insist on, and the declarative and ruling coalition, we could open this system to all citizens as well. Maybe not with all the documents, not with everything being available, because they can't yet have insight into some personal data, I don't know some faces, but it would be good for them to have insight into how we do, what happens every moment in the Assembly, because many people like to watch the transfer of congregations, and some might like to have access like this, that they can see the documents, that they can analyze them and see exactly what we're doing here. My question for the Assembly is – is there any possibility that the system can be modified, I, as a programmer, believe that it is possible, and that a certain level of accessibility, or privilege, can allow any citizen to open it, see and analyse it? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10000	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10001	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the Minister of the Interior. Why isn't his Ministry taking serious steps on the lighting plan of some of the most famous murders since 2000? I have a first-degree murder of Zoran Djindjic and the murder of two guards. We failed to expose the role of Nebojka Covic and document his involvement in the plot, his participation in the order of the murder, and the Ministry of Interior are doing nothing. The leaders of the smiley regime of that time are clear about the role of Nebojka Covic in some ways. Some have written about it in their books, and now we have inconclusive evidence that this role was very large. Until he starts with Covic, by hearing police General Milovic, by hearing political Colonel Vulovic and so on. It's impossible to make that clear, like they're waiting from the sky for some evidence to fall. It's supposed to be a professional approach, not waiting for something to come up from somewhere. And if a citizen's initiative, in my case or journalistic courage in the case of "Kurira" can contribute this way and this much, then the Ministry of the Interior should also make a contribution, if nothing to finalise the job. It's high time to put an end to that case, so he doesn't drag himself like a Kennedy case. There's always something to cover up, there's always someone protecting themselves. Not so important as Nebojka Covic's role in the Red Star football club to free him from responsibility for the murder of Djindjic? So it turns out that the regime had confidence in him to put him in the "Star" to solve problems, and here a much bigger problem has not been solved. As for the murder of two guards, some shift has been made here. It is obvious that Vuk Jeremic participated in the cover-up, but his role could be minimal, as he enjoyed the privilege of serving military service in Boris Tadic's cabinet. I have never heard in the world that such a thing is possible, civil service of military time in the cabinet of the President of the Republic. No one here knew that, as far as I remember, until now we were informed. I have no doubt he's involved in the cover-up, but he can't play the part most important to him. Whose role is most important here? Boris Tadic and that monster, Miodrag Rakic, the famous Mikic, who then burned and burned Serbia, who is behind all the monstrous affairs, furniture, defamation, slander, which are being placed against political opponents. I know he has the credit for forming your progressive party, but he's dead, so you don't have to thank him every day. But clarify his role now that he cannot succumb to criminal responsibility. The role can be clarified. Nothing can be done until Boris Tadic is heard. What are you waiting for? Jeremic is being questioned, as a soldier serving the civilian military deadline, added to Tadic's cabinet, and Tadic is not being heard. Jeremic could execute Tadic's orders for cover-up, not self-initiatively lead the action. He couldn't have that power. It is involved, so politically disqualified, and if only it was intended to achieve its political disqualification, it was achieved, but let me clarify the murder of the two guards. Is it a foreign armed force, which was illegally engaged in the pursuit of Hague fugitives, or is it weapons smuggling, so the guards saw something that they weren't allowed to see or see now a new assumption that some officers were involved in drug trafficking. You can see that in the media this morning, and without the police, it can't be cleared up, and the police are waiting for the problems to be solved on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10002	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to ask today a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment and the Ministry of Finance. In previous weeks, resolutions for the disposal fee for 2015 and 2016 have been delivered to citizens through mail. A situation similar to that of last year, when they were also given payment solutions for the past two years that they have to pay within 15 days. In addition to giving a short 15-day period, very often these solutions are based on incorrect data that have been increased, so that in the final solution the amount of compensation is larger several times. What is encouraging, what we welcome and why I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr. Nedimovic is based on his statement that future collection fees will not be calculated by the tax administration, but will be done by the water companies responsible. We are aware that the compensation is prescribed by law and that it is as such an obligation to pay. We are aware of its significance, especially for the defense of the flood. But for all that, it is necessary that it be accounted for on the correct data. Therefore, I ask my question to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection – on the basis of which the data will be charged, whether solutions will be obtained at the beginning of the year, in the middle of the year, whether they will be obtained in one calendar year or will be paid quarterlyly. At the same time, I ask my second question to the Ministry of Finance – what can citizens do for solutions that are miscalculated and what is the most effective and way to solve their problems? In the end, all I'd like to do is file a lawsuit against a citizen who filed a complaint that called for significant violations of material law and incorrect application of the rules. Namely, Article 169. The Water Act regulates the basis for the payment of the disposal fee and states that the disposal fee is to be paid for the management of the water regime of the land in the Melioration Area, i.e. the areas by draining the excess water systems managed by public water management. On the basis of this article, the contested solution is unlawfully charged with disposal compensation, since houses, courtyards, are located in a strict city centre that does not belong in the area, nor are there disposal systems managed by a public water company. The only water that appears in the yard is rain that rains and absorbs land or goes through the sewers, which is properly paid to the public utility in Vrbas, which means there is no legal basis for paying the disposal fee. It also called for Article 170(1) of the Water Act, which regulates the concept of obligors and payments. In addition to the house, there is an atmospheric sewerage in which all the excess water is poured and it was built twenty years ago from self - contribution funds, in the same place the entire length of the street on one side and the other was previously a ditch that was buried and in which the excess water that the country was being absorbed. It raises the question, and what it has called for in accordance with the provisions set out, excludes it as an obligor of the disposal fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10004	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10005	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today will be addressed to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. In fact, at the National Assembly meeting last week, when we discussed the budget, MP Radoslav Milojic Kena, otherwise former President of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, tried to degrade the investments and work of the Mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Milos Vučević. He tried to belittle the man who in Novi Sad today we have two investments from the US company Lear and Delfi and who will employ 5,000 people, and currently employ 3,000 people, the man who thanks to Novi Sad has the most modern working area for future investments and people thanks to whom the city of Novi Sad is the European capital of culture and the European capital of youth. I'm asking a question - where did he get the courage to mention any president of the municipality? When he was head of Smederevska Palanka municipality, the municipality was the most in debt in Serbia with over three billion dinars, which is 3.5 of the municipality's budget. It's like this town's been in debt for the last 10 years every day for a million dinars. As the municipality of Smederevska Palanka, during this great expert on local self-government management, became Serbia's most indemnity municipality, the DRI report for 2012. For example, as the innovative president of the municipality, he used the city football club "Jasenica 911" which has no club bodies and has registered players, and founded the institution, i.e. the sport organisation of the Fubola Club "Jasenica 1911" as an indirect user of the budget and through which the institution made payment of premiums and scholarships, which resulted in a daily withdrawal of 300,000 dinars, checks without cover. Also, according to the auditors, only in 2012 without foundation was 17 million and 494 thousand dinars paid, and 20 million dinars were paid to this same club in 2015. As an experienced athlete and president of the municipality, he continued this practice in 2012 and, according to the auditors, a total of 30 million dinars were paid without criteria for the development of sports and amateurism of 29 million dinars. According to the auditors, he was also generous to citizens' associations, who were paid five million and 559 thousand dinars without a contract and without a public competition. Also, the DRI report says that at the time of this supreme president of the municipality in 2012, without credible documentation of the resulting business change from the Smederjevska Palanka municipality's budget, 110m dinars were paid. So, at the time of this supreme president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, without legal relations, without credible documentation and therefore unlawfully spent 163 million and 602,000 dinars. Otherwise, this supreme president of the municipality is also a major opponent of party employment, which repeatedly called the SNS unfounded for alleged party employment, and 65 people were employed for his term in 2012 alone more than the number prescribed by the Max Number of Employees Act and 25 million dinars were illegally paid for on behalf of earnings. Also, by the end of his term, this supreme president of the municipality left the small municipality with 820 employees. Watch out, 820 employees of 50,000 inhabitants. To show you what kind of president of the municipality was really Mr. Milojic and how he treated the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka and the money of Serbian citizens, I ask the following question – how much was the total debt of the town of Smederjevska Palanka, including the debts of all institutions, public enterprises, direct, indirect beneficiaries of the budget on 31 December 2011, and how much was the debt on 31 December 2015? How much of the total funds from 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were paid from the municipality’s accounts to “Jasenica 1911”? How much of the total funds in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were paid to the Centre for the Development of Sports and Amateurism in the municipality? How much is the total of 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 paid from the accounts of citizens' associations and how many more persons are employed indefinitely and for a certain time in the municipality, municipal administration and all direct and indirect users of the Smederjevska Palanka budget compared to the maximum number of employees in this municipality, which is defined by the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the administration in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10006	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: I give up. I thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jasmina Karanac, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Branislav Nedimović, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Nenad Katanić and Zoran Janjatovic, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Natasa Milić, Director of the Republic of Water Directorate for the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection, Milan Njegovan, Head of the Department of the Republic Department for Water at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and Radivoja Nadvlački, adviser of the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. Does the proposing representative, Branislav Nedimovic, the minister of agriculture and environmental protection, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10007	Dear President, honourable Members, it is my great pleasure to present to you today what we have in mind to amend and supplement the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Water Encouragements and Rural Development and Amendments. One of the questions arises at the Committee's session – for what reasons are we going to have an emergency procedure for proposing amendments to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act? One is the answer. You are all aware that stories about the IPARD procedure, about EU funds intended for agriculture of 175m euros, intended for Serbia, have been spoken of many years ago, but it is currently not available to our agricultural producers because of the lack of accreditation of our Agrarian Payments Authority. On August 8, a few days before the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we received a report with several blocking factors related to the accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority and the establishment of the IPARD procedure. These blocking factors, often written in the media, but very often in the way that money is not available to us, which is not true, I'd like to say a few words about it now. As blocking factors, human capacities were put in place. I want to tell you that by mid-January, a complete procedure relating to the engagement of a person within the Agency for Agricultural Payments will be completed, 42 people are already employed and another 50 will be employed. This is necessary in order to obtain accreditation at all and in order to implement the procedure, because I will remind you, if anything in the EU, on which Member States have benefited, these are funds based on the common European agricultural policy, and that is what we need to strive for. This blocking factor will, I say, be removed. The other thing was regulations. One of the two regulations is amendments to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. That thing is in front of you today. She's in the biggest part of her... These provisions are focused on IPARD, on its procedures, on carriers, deadlines necessary for implementation, appeal procedures if they occur, because the procedure is transparent and the establishment of specific control tools on site, the establishment of officers who have, officers of the Agrarian Payments Administration, who will have the right to control what happens on site. This way, we're going to give away another reason so we can open chapter 11, which applies to agriculture. I don't think these changes and additions should be delivered today. We probably should've brought them back sooner, in order to solve all this stuff, but we have to work really fast. We are in the Action Plan, which will be presented today, in the European Commission, to provide that in April we are already ready for the full accreditation of our administration and that already in the second half of 2017 we have the first IPARD competition, which will be intended for agricultural producers and processors. We have a few other things that are connected to get us credentials, they concern some regulations that we need to bring to the Ministry of Agriculture. They're already in the works and they'll be finished during January of the month, and things about objects, in terms of their security and IT standards, it'll be satisfied and we'll be ready for it. In this way, we realise one of the points of Prime Minister Vukic's exposure, in part that we will have access to EU funds and these 175m euros, which are at Serbia's disposal, that will be used. What I also want to say is that the full capacity of these funds will be at Serbia's disposal. They won't be diminished at all, we have to work fast, and for that reason there are changes and additions to this law before you. What's very important to us, is that things about equipment procurement, machinery, storage facilities, in this way, will be another channel where these projects can be financed. Besides, we have three new tools that should help function our agriculture. First of all, through the establishment of a land parcel identification system, so-called ‘Elpis’. In this way, we will be able to define clearly the areas where agricultural production is carried out. It will enable us and make it easier for us to combine, to determine what kind of land that can be used for agricultural production. The other thing, which is one of our tools that we're going to use, is so-called. ‘fade system’ is a system of accounting data on agricultural holdings. It is very important that we implement this, so that our agricultural producers can later achieve benefits from the funds that will be available to our country. A system of Serbian agriculture's market information will also be established. We have to have complete analysis in one place, so that we can manage the system in a good way. As regards the proposal for a second amendment and the addition of the Law, which is related to incentives, this is about the additions, i.e. the expansion of the circle of persons who have the right to achieve incentives for their agricultural production. Let me remind you, the 2017 agricultural budget is 3.32 billion higher. We have defined four times more resources in the budget for the development of those competitiveness measures concerning the procurement of equipment for all investments. And that's another thing that was contained in the Prime Minister's exposé. Instead of 526 million, as scheduled in 2016, we will have 2.2 billion funds for this. The users of the means to which we spread the circle are those who deal with livestock, and the kind of livestock that will be able to produce the chicken meat, which is well sought on the market. This is how we want to determine the right of those persons to get certain incentives, in order to improve this type of livestock production. What I particularly want to point out is the introduction of a category of young agricultural producers' faces, which are contained in amendments to the laws, which will also have the right to use grants to achieve their agricultural production. They will also have the right to use start-ap loans under specific programmes, hence loans for beginners in agricultural production, regardless of whether they are primary agricultural production or processing. It's our idea that, especially in devasted areas like, I'm going to say a few examples, the White Palanca, the Shop, the Srljiga, the Babusnica and similar local communities, to try to make this one of the tools that we're going to leave people living in that area. And not only let them live in that area, but also let some other people come and start their own agricultural production, start their own life there, because we will predict more subsidies for those areas than for other areas. I think it's very important, and that this should be one of the tools that we're fighting to keep certain areas from being emptied, especially in Eastern and South Serbia. There are various agricultural productions, which very often put people on the other side, especially when we attach these tools to young farmers and what is related to livestock, to the production of larger quantities of juniper meat. We can expect these areas to develop this branch of agricultural production. Also, sometimes in the second plan, the third plan is also laid out as medicinal herbs, which are known to these regions. It is very important for us to develop, in addition to basic agricultural production, processing facilities in these areas, and to develop a market that is capable of absorbing produced goods in these areas. Not to produce quality and cheap goods anymore, but to process them in such areas as a semi-product or a final product, go to the market, either Serbia or the markets available to this country. What I also noticed yesterday during the debate on the Committee on Agriculture is that there is no insurance, that insurance is expelled, that is, subsidising the insurance of agricultural production. That's not true. It's under risk management. We have taken over the methodology from the European Directives, for one simple reason so that we can synchronise two legislations in a good way, so that we can be users of a larger amount of funds. I'm just going to tell you that risk management is a generic term, which does not only involve subsidising insurance, insurance premiums, but also many other things that are currently a problem on the market. Especially in critical situations, whether there is a shortage of certain agricultural products or a surplus of agricultural products. So we're developing tools to regulate the agricultural product market, and it's our idea to bring in a special regulation next year that will regulate this. What this is, this measure that exists as risk management, is a generic term that includes more tools that will be fully defined through sublegal acts. The last and least important regulations ahead of you are amendments to the Water Act. I'll remind you that the last regulation was passed in 2010. To be a little picturesque, a lot of water has been gone since that period, but there have been many critical situations in 2010. I don't need to remind you that in 2014 we had floods in May, that we had this in 2016 from the lush waters. All these things, all the experiences were implemented in the amendments and additions to the Water Act. All that was a problem, and I'm going to list a few things that are solved by the changes and additions of the Water Act, whether it's going to be successful or not, that depends on how we treat this thing. We're going to have a legal framework, but what's certainly a problem is that we didn't look at the river the way God commands it, by hydrographic plums, but very often we had administrative barriers. Thus, up to a mile [one km] Savi was run by the Vode of Vojvodina, after which Serbia was in Serbia, and then Belgrade led and then a problem arose in 2014 as to how to coordinate all these entities in a quality way. By amending and supplementing this law, we resolve this dilemma and river management will go on the basis of its flows, based on hydrographic plums, not on the administrative areas that exist. I also want to say that after 2010, two very important laws have been passed for the functioning of Serbia's entire legal system. One is the Law on Public Property, and the other is the Law on Planning and Construction. The amendments to the Water Act have been fully adapted to the Law on Public Property, and we have defined the way we treat water installations and the same water surfaces. What did we have under the previous regulations, the 2010 regulations, six years ago? With the water space that existed along the river, there were no auctions, there were no transparent procedures, but simply whoever before the girl, his girlfriend. In that principle, the whole procedure was in place. We now have clear, transparently defined procedures according to the Law on Public Property so that one can rent a water space. On the other hand, we have a united procedure that has been defined by the Law on Planning and Construction where the burden of obtaining documentation from any institution, any public enterprise falls on the one who issues the permit. We have implemented this in the amendments and additions of the Water Act, so that now that a water or water permit is issued by a competent water company, a burden falls on it, not on a party, not on an individual that has to run from door to door, but a burden falls on a competent public water company that must collect all necessary documentation for a party wishing to participate in the procedure. In this way, we make the procedure more transparent, we reduce bureaucratic procedures, we make it easier for citizens and all interested persons to get to the water acts that exist in our regulations. What can that represent in a man's life? Where irrigation is to be carried out in a larger area, and because of the capacity it is necessary to obtain any water act, the competent water company will be required on behalf of that farmer to obtain all the conditions and all the consents. And I also want to say that in large infrastructure projects that extend across two territories that specifically regulate certain areas, we are, for example. had jurisdiction over certain types of infrastructure facilities, the permit was issued as regards AP Vojvodina's water to one point, and from the other point the authorisation was issued by the competent authority in Serbia's space. We've simplified this whole thing, defined the body that's been issuing for the entire water bill infrastructure project. We also adopted European directives as regards the treatment of municipal waste water so that we can have a system of cleaning waste municipal waters in a good way. This entire object system is being developed. There are different sources of funding. It's being financed from the budget of local self-government, somewhere local self-government is competing for IPA projects. Here, for example. We have in IPA 2017 a huge wastewater treatment project in Nis of 53m euros. We need new standards in order to manage municipal wastewater in a quality way. What is very important is to say, a complete crisis management system, when it comes to water, rules on the basis of which entities participating actively in the defence system, rules and framework will be determined by the Ministry of Agriculture through their competent authorities. This is how we want to coordinate and the system of unity in the way of governance. I was alone in 2014 when the great floods witnessed what based on the law that we now want to change is happening, where we had different rules of conduct in different places. This is one unique space, one state. On the basis of hydrographic plums, it must be managed, which is why the Danube Commission was established by the EU, which is why we also have the Sava Commission as one of the tools, and on the third hand, we are also talking to the competent institutions of BiH and Montenegro to manage it in a unique manner during the Drina River. So we can have full coordination, and when you have information in time, then you can make the right decision. Therefore, I ask you to support these amendments to the rules of the voting day. This ministry will accept all those amendments that contribute to the development of the system. Thank you very much and we're at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10008	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10009	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me on behalf of the SVM-PD to present our opinion on the draft laws on the agenda. First of all, I'm going to talk about amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The SVM parliamentary group welcomed a decision to pass such a law at the beginning of 2013. We all remember what happened in the past few years. There were regulations and our agricultural producers didn't know what was waiting for them next year. By passing this law, it was primarily important for our agricultural producers, because through this law, the state finally formed a transparent policy of incentives in agriculture. We all know that agricultural production is about predictability. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development creates a stable, long-term and predictable agricultural policy. However, first because of the situation in which the state was at the end of 2014 and 2015, there has been an amendment and addition of this law from the need to improve the basic elements of agricultural policy and rural development policy, in line with changes in the economic and market environment caused by the impact of the global economic crisis over the past few years. The current law focuses on agricultural land that uses up to 20 ha of farmland, which is the most numerous category of land. The decision on these changes has been difficult for our farmers, and I sincerely hope that we will be able to increase the amount of subsidies per hectare in the coming years, because if we want our producers to be competitors on the EU market, that is, to compete with EU producers, this will be necessary. Yesterday, on the Committee on Agriculture, we discussed this, and Mr. Nedimovic also said he hopes that in the coming years we will be able to raise the amounts. For us SVM MPs, it is of paramount importance that according to this proposal, the amounts were allocated for agriculture at least 5% of the revenues from the national budget, which was met by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the 2017 budget. It is also positive that these changes and additions further extend the scope of the measures in the area of livestock production, as new measures are introduced under the incentives, the circle of users of incentives in the area of direct monitoring for livestock production is expanded. Secondly, a new classification of measures is set up within the framework of the rural development incentives, which is a step forward in harmonisation with the measures of the second pillar of the EU's common agricultural policy, aimed at EU accession negotiations under Chapter 11 of Agriculture and Rural Development. According to Mr Nedimovic's announcements, our farmers in 2017 can count on the following measures. Under the new law, i.e. after the adoption of the 2017 budget and after the adoption of the regulations, they will receive through direct payments of four thousand dinars per hectare. I know that manufacturers are not too satisfied with these amounts, however, the most important thing is that they are paid as soon as possible, because they need the funds extremely. In addition, there remains a milk premium of seven dinars, the same for dairy cows as an incentive of 25,000 dinars per throat, for a ton of heroin 10 thousand dinars, for the sows and the ravines the funds increase, according to the announcement of Mr. Minister, from 7,000 to 10,000 dinars per throat, for goats and sheep there remain seven thousand dinars, for lambs and yards of two thousand dinars, for the pigs of thousands of dinars and for the hive bees producers can count on 720 dinars. I think that's good. Of course, those producers that deal with organic production can count on even greater resources. According to the draft law, incentives for rural development measures are investments in agriculture to improve competitiveness, achieve quality standards, sustainable rural development, improve rural economy, prepare and implement local rural development strategies and incentives to support advisory and professional jobs in agriculture. For us, they are of particular importance to the advisory service, since many agricultural producers are elderly, so it is of great importance for them to get help from counselors. By the way, the Alliance of Agricultural Associations of Vojvodina based in Sainta, with which we have extremely good co-operation, helps our farmers in many of the municipalities of Vojvodina. The local government of Backa Topola, from which I come, also sets out some incentives for advisory services. They are these people, counselors who help our farmers when they submit their demands to the Treasury and their work is extremely important. Now, the question for you, Mr. Minister, is it – is there a possibility that in addition to experts in advisory services, experts from various associations can be involved in this service? I hope we find a way for the associations to get support for such a business. Of course, credit support remains, which is also extremely important for all our farmers. In the framework of the production incentives, incentives in cattle farming are extended, and these are for the cultivation of calves for tov, quality breeding cattle and bulls, quality breeding rams and goats and quality growing crops. It is good that, in addition to the conditions laid down in the applicable law regarding the right to use incentives in livestock, it is prescribed that for the use of incentives by a person who has acquired the right to use must fulfil the conditions of application on his agricultural land, and under the control of legal persons authorised to work in the section of the breeding organisation. As for the incentives for cows, for the breeding of calves for tov, the proposal envisions a minimum amount of 5,000 dinars. It's a newspaper we support. With a view to reducing the payment of direct payments, it is predicted that the reduction within the prescribed limits is made only for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits, which is more favourable than the solution in the applicable law, which reduces the payment of the total amount. A number of incentives for rural development measures are also important: improving competitiveness, preserving and improving the environment and natural resources, diversifying income and improving the quality of life in rural areas, preparing and implementing local rural development strategies and improving the system of knowledge creation and transfer. I hope that the same will be included in this business in various agricultural associations. They are present on the ground, organize various events, professional gatherings, and their work is extremely important. The above-mentioned incentives for rural development measures shall be implemented as compensations for part of the costs at a certain percentage of the value of a particular type of measure and shall be determined at a minimum of 30% of the total value, or 45% for areas with reduced working conditions in agriculture. It is also positive that it is more precisely arranged to use incentives for organic, plant and animal production. The second law on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. The law is adopted for the purpose of taking the obligations under the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for the implementation of EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for IPA 2 and for the reasons of the Sectoral Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on mechanisms for applying Union financial assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance in the area of support for agriculture and rural development, i.e. IPAR 2. Based on the final report on observations and recommendations made by the European Commission of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of requests for confidence in such implementation of Serbia's budget, it has been found that the national law on agriculture must be adapted to the sectoral agreement. The most important changes to be made are the inclusion of deadlines in accordance with the Sector Agreement, as Mr Minister said, including appeal procedures, the status of agricultural inspectors for consular persons and others. This finding has been characterised as a blocking factor that is achieved through the proposed changes and additions of the law. By gaining candidate status in March 2012, Serbia was given the opportunity to use IPAR funds and components for agriculture and rural development, with the necessary conditions for accreditation of a decentralised management system. Part of the operating structure of this system is the Agrarian Payments Administration. The main objective of law-making is to create a legal basis for implementing the IPAR programme in the Republic of Serbia and to enable the use of IPAR funds aimed at achieving standards and competitiveness in the area of agriculture and rural development. The amendments and additions relate to the provisions governing the work of the Agrarian Payments Authority with regard to the allocation of the assets referred to in IPAR 2. I would point out only a few: the rule of special procedure for the implementation and control of the IPAR programme, a new act defining the IPAR programme adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry, introduces a system of accounting data on agricultural holdings and introduces a system for the identification of land parcels representing a set of data on land parcels. I think it's of strategic importance for the whole country and for all our farmers to do everything to meet all the requirements as soon as possible and that the Agrarian Payments Authority will finally get accreditation, because it's the only way we can strengthen the competitiveness of our farmers. As we heard from Mr. Minister, the goal is to do so by the beginning of 2017. I am sure that both Mr. Nedimovic and Mr. Zarko Radat, who is director of the Agency for Agricultural Payments, will do everything to make it so. The third law on the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act. One of the main reasons for the adoption of the law is the harmonisation of the Water Act with other regulations in our legal system that have been passed after the law has been passed and continued to comply with EU law in the water area. Important changes and additions are that the waters are defined as a natural wealth in the property of the Republic of Serbia and are being brought into line with the Law on Public Property, as Mr Minister mentioned earlier. The management of water land in public property will be carried out by a public water business established to carry out water work on a specific territory. It is very important that the revenues from the lease of water land on the territory of the AP Vojvodina are the revenues of the AP Budget Fund and are used to finance transactions of general interest in the area of water management. As for the right to prevent the purchase of water land, the Autonomous Province has the right to prevent the purchase of water land on artificial waterways, canals on which public property rights are right. The Law on Public Property, which established the property of the Autonomous Province on the Channel Network, is thus aligned. It is positive that revenues are achieved from the establishment of the right of real service in the territory of the Autonomous Region of the Autonomous Region of Budgets and are used through the Autonomous District Water Budget Fund for the financing of jobs of general interest in the water management area. It has already been said on the Committee on Agriculture, that in the past few weeks, citizens across the country have received from the IRS real extermination accounts, which have caused great dissatisfaction among them, most of all because they have been paid and compensation for construction land since 2010, is paid where sewerage exists. It's not the government's responsibility, but we think it's too big, so we have to do something about it. For example, my neighbor who gets a 9,000-dollar agricultural pension on a monthly basis now got to pay 30,000 dinars. The land has been leased, and now there's nothing to pay this amount of money from. A huge problem is also the fact that the Tax Administration has also delivered accounts for 2015 and 2016. Yesterday we discussed this subject on the Committee on Agriculture. Mr. Minister, please consider a proposal to exempt the building land from the disposal fee. You said at the beginning of next year we'd talk about it again. A member of the law on this issue, unfortunately, does not change the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, so we do not have the legal opportunity to propose an amendment in that direction. The point is that now in rural areas, every household has to pay for all land and it is too large, although it is that the Autonomous province's revenues, however, the outflow of funds was carried out through the Tax Administration, which made a huge failure at the end of 2015, did not send solutions to citizens. I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, no matter what you're not in charge of, to ask the tax authorities anyway, which is why this failure occurred. This can't happen again. Solutions should be sent regularly, because these are huge amounts, so citizens can't pay them at once. Under the draft law, the public water company will be in charge of this in the future, meaning the amendment and addition of the law goes in that direction, which is very good. It is good that in the territory of the Autonomous province, the competent authority of the Autonomous Province determines the limits of water land. This extends the authority of the Autonomous Province, determines the limits of water land, not only for first-row waters, but also for second-row waters. The bill reduces water areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed changes were divided on the basis of hydrogas principles, not according to the territorial principle, so five water areas were envisaged – the water area of Sava, Danube, Morava, Ibar and Lepenac and the water area of Beli Drim. The autonomous province of Vojvodina is part of the water areas of Sava and Danube. The water areas shall be divided into water units, as the basic territorial units for the operation of water management operations on the basis of the criteria set out. It is important that the water act in the territory of the Autonomous Province is brought by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province. The new source of funding for the Autonomous Region's Water Fund are funds from the lease of water land in public property and the establishment of a right of real service on water land and a water facility in public property, achieved on the territory of the Autonomous Province. The amendments and additions of the Water Act shall be abolished by certain competences of the Autonomous Region body prescribed by the applicable Water Act, but as regards the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the area of water production, prescribed by the Law establishing certain competences of the AP Vojvodina, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law shall not be touched in that jurisdiction. This is very, very important for our parliamentary group. It is also good that it differs from the draft amending and supplementing the Water Act, which provides for the abolition of inspection supervision in the area of water production to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, the bill retains inspection supervision, or the Autonomous Region is entrusted with the exercise of inspection supervision in the territory of the Autonomous Region through the water inspector, the sanitary inspector and environmental inspector. In the end, Mr. Minister, I would like to say that the SVM parliamentary group, the Party for Democratic Action, will support all draft laws. Of course, in addition to passing these laws, there are still a lot of issues concerning agriculture and are of great importance to our producers on whom we should work together. I mean, first of all, pension and disability insurance for agricultural producers, registration of connected machines, and the adoption of a regulation on so-called "the" small producers. The problem with pension and disability insurance has been a big problem for years. We've solved some problems, because only one member of the family is obliged to pay PIO. There have been reprogrammes, even this year, and unfortunately, the most important part is that the proceeds in the land are proportional to the paid contributions, the size of the property, we haven't solved it. Those small-scale producers cannot pay 100,000 dinars on an annual basis, so we hope that the draft working group in the ministry will be accepted as soon as possible. It would be good to have the reprogramme back. Interests are twice the principal debt, the IRS puts a mortgage on agricultural land, so the situation is very bad on the ground. Mr. Minister, once again, as you can count on us to solve these problems. Of course, once again I want to say that we support all the draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10010	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10011	Dear Chairman, I would like to thank the previous speaker for his words and thank you for supporting the amendments and additions to these laws on the agenda today. I'd just like to look back on a few things, just for clarification. I would also be the happiest if at this point I could say that the higher level of resources, especially for plant production, but I also want to say one thing, that I can only implement in regulations what we have from money. I can't deal with future uncertain circumstances and be insecure. I want everything we have in these regulations to determine and pay off. I want, as we did in 2016, about investment, where we paid more than we planned, to have a predictable system, that everyone knows what was prescribed for them to get safe, not that we have a situation like 10.5 billion dinars, and there was a legal obligation, then the entire system of future budgets that were intended for agriculture broke. I don't think that's serious. We can spend what we have and I think it's very important to draw and create security. As for these measures that you spoke of, yes, they are all as you mentioned. We wanted to expand the circle of these users, move on. As far as counselors are concerned, a very important thing, we must fully reform the system of advisory services for 2017 and 2018, for one simple reason, I will give you the concrete things that are happening to us on the ground. We need advisory services. In a village in Machva, called Ravni, I heard an interesting thing, in fact, it depicts every village. It is that an important teacher is in a village, a priest is important and it is important that someone advises you how and what to sow what year. I think in this one sentence, which can seem completely banal, it actually contained everything for the existence of a village and for the quality and proper development. We will try through this transformation to include local communities, to allow them to have programmes to co-finance advisory jobs for those persons accredited by the rules that have been established. As far as the draining is concerned, you're absolutely right. We have had one situation now for 2015 and 2016, that the tax administration has come up with solutions for two years. We have a situation where, under the current Water Act, an organ that deals with the collection of who knows how many hundreds of incomes and who knows what this is to him by the degree of treason in order. We had to make these adjustments and that there, on the spot where they are, where people know, they're all about this problem, which is a competent water company, that they're going to be the ones who are going to be calculating according to a whole new methodology. There is room to discuss what was proposed yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture and what was proposed by you. I think we need to build a fair disposal system. But what I'm trying to tell you is these funds are used to edit our channels, to edit the water streams. It's all nice when everything works but when it comes, like May 2014, when we have a bunch of local communities that didn't pay attention to what you've got. You have a stove, a car shell, or I don't know, some third thing jammed one water supply, made a barrier, and now there's a spill. It has to be systematically and planically done, one of the funding choices, is this disposal fee. It would be good if we could regulate this in a better way and justly, and that will be our intensity, and thank you for your suggestions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10012	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10013	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have a set of laws in the field of agriculture and the New Serbia Parliament Club will support this set of laws in the voting day. What I would say at the outset is that both personally and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I support a huge energy that has come with the new minister to the ministry of resistance and I sincerely hope for better days for the Serbian agrarian. Of course, like my colleague before me, and first I will talk about the amendments and additions to the Rural Development Agriculture Act, because the IPARD Fund is something that is so much talked about in Serbia, in the municipalities and cities of Serbia in the previous years, but, behold, we are witnessing that we are only now reaching conditions that in 2017 this IPARD fund in this full range of 175, as you listed a million euros can be available to Serbia, as a state and indirectly to the Serbian farmer. What is important is that, since March 2012, when Serbia became a candidate for EU membership, it has gained the opportunity for these funds, but, of course, it took time for certain conditions to be met, not to mention, accredit, first of all, the Agrarian Payments Administration, to employ people there and now the job is at the end and I sincerely hope that the new rules will already be passed in the first quarter of 2017, to know in which way that money will be allocated. As for IPARD funds and that money, I only because of the citizens of Serbia following this transfer, I must say that both the ministry and local self-government have worked significantly in the previous year on the education of our agricultural producers, but I think I need to make another extra effort, that all registered owners are properly presented, which is what they have to fill in to compete for money, and I have to say that this money will go down to the non-refundable and up to 70%, depending on the investment, whether the investment in equipment is in facilities, etc. What I would only ask the Honorable Minister to pay attention to this Article 8e, which speaks only about implementing, or controlling the implementation of the IPARD programme, where it is said that jobs can be done by a person who has acquired a higher education within the framework of the educational scientific field of technical and technological sciences or from the field of economic and legal science. I think that there, my colleagues and I, we've intervened a little with the amendment, that it should stand – and possibly veteran doctors. The problem in Serbia is right now that veterinary cells are in general in huge problems. We, unfortunately, now have practice, south of Sava and Danube, that the unfortunate privatisation of the well-deprived part has brought down everything that we had well from primarily primary veterinary protection, and that is why it would be important for me to include veteran doctors in the implementation and monitoring of funds that will be approved from IPARD funds. The second law is the draft law on incentives in agricultural production and what I want to say, in short, is that something that is good and that I have already said and in the principle debate when it was here about the 2017 budget, which is that after many years of stagnation, the amount of funding for agricultural subsidies in the Serbian agrarian is increased and it will be larger in 2017, respectively, compared to 2016 by some 3.3 billion dinars. That's a significant amount. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is that all they had from subsidies and incentives in 2016 will have in 2017 with certain increases. In his opening statement, the minister already noted where these increases are. He mentioned this heronadi as our real chance and that there will be significantly greater subsidies in 2017 and it supports it. It's simple, I come from Šumadia, I come from Topola, and it's my pleasure that the minister will also be a guest in Šumadia, where we will visit together for this hero in the village of Krcjevac, which is the first such farm in Šumadia, newly built in the last ten years. Which is just one indication that things are moving better and things are moving in the right direction. What is worried about every Serbian farmer and I want to say it out loud once again, although my colleague from SVM has already mentioned it, which is that the milk premium remains seven dinars per litre. What is also worried about the Serbian peasant at the moment is what happens to additional customs on imports of milk. Yesterday after the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, we saw the announcement of all national media that these prelemns, i.e. the protection of domestic production, will be abolished after 1 January 2017 but it is very important that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today hear that this will not affect the reduction of the price of milk in purchase. That price is already relatively low. She's had a little jump in the last two, three months, but it's important, because somehow it's all going through this story, as soon as the extra customs duties are lifted, and they're already in effect, as far as I can tell, for about a year and a half, that there's going to be a drop in the price of milk in the ransom. So we want to make it clear and loud to all the farmers that it's not going to happen. What I would ask you, Mr. Minister, is one thing that I have already repeatedly mentioned here and through parliamentary issues, and yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, to consider a new regulation and regulation that the Ministry will bring in early next year, and that is to help small producers. Small milk producers, so there are holdings that hand over less than three thousand liters quarterly. According to the current Regulation and the current Regulation, they do not have the right to subsidies of seven dinars per litre of milk, and that is a big problem, because you and we both know the data, and should also know that the citizens of Serbia are 70% of the owners of Serbia currently engaged in livestock farming have one to four cows. That means up to 70% of people, I'm afraid they won't be able to use these seven dinar subsidies per litre of milk. If we fail to comply with the regulations there, even when we know what our production structure is and when we know how much money we need to invest in hygiene in everything else, then we are truly afraid that and who will be able to use the exact milk subsidies in 2017. What's good, what you also mentioned in your opening statement, is the expansion of subsidies and what I don't think you've mentioned is the possibility since 2017, and I'm also going to think about the funds that we're going to get from IPARD funds, which is the possibility that the agriculture ministry's funds finance the construction of infrastructure in the rural area, or rural areas, that's the mountain range of Serbia. It is one of the key opportunities where it is necessary in a clear way to coordinate the ministry's policy with local self-government policy, means every local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to bring plans both urban and rural infrastructure development plans. Infrastructure is the key to the development of the village and the survival of the village in Serbia today, and if we want our villages to not be empty, we need to make a maximum effort to develop the infrastructure. This is why it is good that we have had funding in both this and the previous years by the Ministry of Finishing, that is, the development of atherian roads in the rural area. This, of course, should continue further, but this should be extended with, first of all, opportunities to make quality road-communal infrastructure, means also a water network, a sewerage network, then asphalt roads and all that local self-government is trying with more or less success to do right now across Serbia, but you know what the possibility of local self-government is, so that the state must be very helpful. You also said that the Ministry in 2017, and this is one novelty compared to the year that is under way in 2016, will also grant subsidies to young agricultural producers. I'm on the Committee on Agriculture yesterday, and I think, let's say, I've competed with an idea that might be interesting in the years that are coming, not in 2017, but in 2018, which is, if the country goes through, for example. The agriculture ministry provides subsidies for domestic and foreign businesses that create jobs here, and young agricultural producers who remain and deal with primary production, do we process, mean we open new jobs there, whether the state can grant subsidies not only through start-up loans for the purchase of manufacturing equipment, but also give subsidies for a year or two, that the state pays contributions to health and social security for these young couples who will stay in the country and deal with agricultural production? We heard from my colleagues a few years ago, I have also asked several questions of MPs here on the tide, and it is about paying the contributions that are 90,000 dinars for social health insurance of farmers, no matter how much property they have in registered land. That's totally unfair, because the amazing thing is that the same thing is paid by someone who has 50 acres or half a hectare and someone who has 50 acres. It is also unfair and it is unfair and it is the Ministry of the Sea, whether it will by regulation, regulation, or how it will regulate it, but should be regulated already in 2017. In the end, of course, we must also touch this law which is the most common of all, when I hold it in my hand, which is the amendment of the Water Act. The primary law was passed in 2010, the consolidated text in 2012. We understand and understand and that is why we will also support that it is very important and very important because of the harmonisation of laws and public property and laws on planning and construction, but I think another law that we have not touched in the present story, which is the Law on Law of Law, which is also very important and which, by these amendments to the Water Act, which today is on the agenda of this prey, should also be accelerated. What colleagues have already said, unfortunately, we have had this story that was quite bitter for all citizens of Serbia, which is the 2014 floods, which showed all the lack of our system, the defence against floods. What's the problem when we say -- all the lack of system, the problem of jurisdiction that we had when we didn't know how far the jurisdiction of Vojvodina's water, where Belgrade's waters begin, where Serbia's waters continue. The division that was in the old law, followed Serbia's administrative division into autonomous provinces, so Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija, then central Serbia, is now well improved and resolved in these amendments of the law and I personally and New Serbia absolutely welcome it. What we need to say is that we have a really big complaint from the citizens, and these are the solutions to the disposal. You, Minister, have already said something about us trying to change, because it is completely illogical that the Republic Tax Administration is sending out resolutions for disposal, in 2015 and 2014, two years in a row, although in 2014, we had these huge floods, now at the end of 2016 in the last quarter, two years are being sent together, and that is something that I really, I must say, brings a bit of a problem to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are bonds of paying watering fees, but not just citizens, but also legal persons. They're both in trouble local self-government and municipalities and local communities, they all have astronomical accounts for disposal, and I think that this problem would be solved and the Republic Tax Administration has done a lot, and I have to be rude, but it's so obvious that it determines the height of the taxis, that is, the exorcism fee. So it would be extremely important to include not only water companies in this business, because we can come to another problem if we just hand it over to water companies, that they determine the level of compensation, that it will be then - cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. They'll have that money, and they'll always be in the interest of charging as much as they can and I'm afraid of it. But I think it's important, and that's what I mentioned to the board yesterday, to include local tax administrations in all local self-governments, because they have the most accurate data, because they already determine property taxes, so the most accurate data on every area in a particular local self-government, and then in a fair and just way, we can determine the compensation for disposal, and that now there's no situation where you don't get paid for it, and then you get a big amount for 24 months, and then we're all in trouble about it. When we talk about amending the Water Act, I have to touch on a few more things that are vital to life, above all, for those of us who come from central Serbia, or the Woodland, I think we need to get in the way of managing small country water lines that exist all over Serbia. And that's something that the Ministry has to take one sharper position. Unfortunately, we have a practice from the past 20 or 30 years that local communities, together with citizens, have funded certain water lines. Now there are so-called. Water consumers' associations. There's water to be paid, there's no pay. The issue of water control, and that water is used for drinking, is very problematic. The ministry must also clearly take a position with competent local self-government on how and in what way to resolve the issue. She's just saying that you have to have a public-communal company to run with local rural water lines isn't enough. It is necessary to find a way of at least some transitional period that will be between a year and two, to solve this problem together in a fair and adequate way. Here, dear ministers, I sincerely wish you every happiness in further work, the movements exist, in me and my fellow MPs from New Serbia you will have good associates and I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10014	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10015	Dear Mr. Jovanovic, I thank you for your words and for your support. Just a few clarifications. In February and March, education for IPARD will begin, although there were those educations in previous years. The idea is to once again shed light on this whole story so that we can welcome the competitions. This proposal you made in Article 8e is related to people who are from the veterinary field, or veterinarians, we will accept that thing if the amendment meets other qualities to be such that it is possible to accept it. You're absolutely right. We need to put in and expand this circle. As far as the levies are concerned, a lot of stories, a lot of lies, but I guess that's just normal. I will remind you that a year and a half ago, the Serbian government introduced safeguards to protect the dairy sector and the meat sector by administrative means so as not to flood the milk from the EU that existed as a surplus at the time, which was created as a result of the disturbances in relations based on the introduction of sanctions between the EU and Russia. The European Union, to remind you, is about 1.5 billion euros spent over the last year and a half, struggling with excess milk. The only way the Serbian government had at that time to help producers, processors, is to introduce these administrative measures. Many at that time rebelled and said that Serbia is thus disrupting its European path. However, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement allows the use of such tools with a reasoned proposal. The fact is that today's circumstances are much, much better. It is a very different situation in the European milk market, not to mention the individual prices that depend on sometimes and national measures applied by certain countries, but not even close to the situation anymore, and that should be made clear. Is the government going to extend or not? We are doing an analysis together with all the actors on the whole process, and what is certain, whatever the decision is, will not be compromised by the dairy producer as the primary unit of which we all depend. It'll always be taken care of. What you just said about the total amount of milk someone has to deliver per quarter, for marginal areas, we'll figure out 1,500 liters per quarter, for one simple reason, so that one or two cows that exist, which he has in his agricultural land, would be enough to meet these criteria. That's our idea. With two, it fills quite safely. As far as young people are concerned, we'll have grants, not only start a credit app, but also grants. We've just come from the same premise that you said, about encouraging, opening new jobs. We just went to the same premise for agriculture. The idea is to help the grant develop new jobs in agriculture, especially in agricultural land. Together, we are now preparing one tool with the ministry that is responsible for pension-inhabitation, so that we can cover it in a quality way. Once again, I don't owe it, it's all about contributions. We formed a task force. We've got a catastrophic situation, a contribution situation. We have an incredibly large number of taxpayers who have astronomical sums. That's the thing that's been going on for the last seven, eight years. It's just amazing to me that someone who has half a hectare, a hectare, could have put in the same rank as one who has 100 acres. It has nothing to do with life. That logical sequence doesn't make any sense to me. How can someone make the same income on agricultural land for half a hectare and 100 acres? I agree that in a certain type of agricultural production, in smaller areas, there can be high values. Here we will go to a completely different approach where, compared to income that can be achieved per unit of surface, a basis for calculating contributions to PIO will be established. We have, in particular, in this section relating to farmers, a much greater allocation from the budget to complement the possibility of these modest pensions, the agricultural ones that exist. We need to take care of this area. And the debt thing is even more problematic. I'm going back again, I don't know how anyone could have arranged that. Now we have a situation that the tax administration can automatically in a legal sense not to touch executions. The execution of what? What, to take some field, a house? So what kind of state would that be? We need to reform and we need to see with the tax administration to make reprogramme. These debts in a bunch of places are impossible to collect. Whatever you try, it's impossible to charge. It's just, let me tell you, whoever came up with it needs to give him a serious plaque, but the one in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10016	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10017	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minsitre, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry and the Office of the Water Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, is pleased to discuss three laws today. Two are directly related to agriculture, because from the creation of the Single Serbia to this day, we have always advocated, we advocate and we will push for as much funds to be invested in agriculture, in the Serb village, to save Serbia. I will begin my presentation in this way, because statistics show that in the village there are less and less young, unfortunately, and old people, that many villages are dying for us, that, according to my data, there are about 60, 70 places that are only today a geographical concept in the Republic of Serbia, where no one lives, and there were once hundreds of people. One of the reasons is that it was poor investment in these villages, in those areas, because it was mostly made from agricultural production, from livestock, from fruit growing. What you, Mr. Minister, have said about the first law is, in fact, adapting this law to EU laws and the possibility of entering the IPARD programme, in order to withdraw certain funds from Europe and allow agricultural producers in the Republic of Serbia to use them. That's very good, and that's the J.S. Parliament Club saying hello. We particularly underline and point out to the Ministry that besides large producers, which have hundreds and thousands of hectares of farmland, hundreds and thousands of cattle, there should be more attention to small agricultural producers who have many in Serbia. I particularly welcome what you say should be supported by young agricultural producers who want to stay with their parents on their grandfather's and great-grandfather's estates, with the ability to expand them, to deal with certain livestock, vegetables, fruit growing, wine growing, and that they can live on and support themselves and their family members. This way we will be able to increase the birth rate in Serbia and that what has been going on for years does not happen. To reduce Serbia, one reason is that there are no salaries of small children in many villages, because there are no young people who can live there and live from their work, from their agricultural production. That's why we think, from the JS, or the MP club, that it's a good thing that, Mr. Minister, you and your co-workers from the Ministry recognized this big, I'd say, acute problem in the Republic of Serbia that has been pressing this country for years. In this regard, let me tell you, it would be necessary to figure out the possibility that these small, young, or young agricultural producers are able to, say, favourable credit lines for the purchase of machinery, because it is known that in Serbia today agricultural machinery is between 15 and 20 years old, if my data are correct, that many would like to restore that mechanism, but they are not able to restore it, because they have no funds, banking loans are still quite unfavourable, there is no grace period, etc. I think the Ministry should take some action here. What is also important, Mr. Minister, although the question of how much the Ministry of Agriculture can only do, is that it is not a problem for the agricultural producer, especially small and medium-sized, to produce. It's his problem to place it, and it's especially a big problem to charge for it. Without money he can't get into new production, in the new year, if he has a year, two, three claims from various customers, buyers, and I don't know who, because he turned his products in, sold, and didn't charge. There is a problem where they should act, besides the Ministry of Agriculture, and other ministries, to prevent the fraud of agricultural producers, who have invested their sweats in these products, and who, unfortunately, have not been able to collect them. What I particularly want to say is that in Serbia there is a will to be produced, there is knowledge to be produced. We are not running away from it, Mr. Minister, that counsellors should propose and advise our farmers what they should do next year on their agricultural holdings. But in addition to these advices, it's much more important that this is what I was just talking about, that you allow them to collect their work and that they can support their children, their families and plan something for next year. When we're talking about, I wouldn't be repeating what my esteemed colleagues used to say before me, in order to do all that, we have to invest a lot more in villages in municipal village equipment, in the construction of waternets, sewers, etc. But it's a long-term process, and it's certain that in a year we can't do it. However, what the Ministry of Agriculture, with the Directorate for Water and Public Enterprises "Serbia" and "Vojvodnavod", can do, which is to help all those local communities, and I come from Pomorava where this problem is very large, where there are no sewers, but because of waste water and these septic caves there is pollution in many environments, wells, pumps, etc. where households and houses are fed with drinking water. That's why there are a lot of sick people, especially rickety diseases in those environments. So there would have to be ways to help all these local communities build sewers, with a little more assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and to say, in a broader sense, the state of Serbia. In this way, by improving the communal equipment of these villages, we will keep people from living in these villages, etc., so that I don't owe it now. When it comes to small water lines in the villages, I have to say, since I know that area pretty well, these water lines are being controlled by health protection and they're charging for it. It would be good if these health care institutions were to do so on the cost of the state, not to charge these villages to control that drinking water, from these small water lines, and in this way, is a little help in the financial sense, but it's one proof that the state cares about these small water lines, about these small villages, where people are supplied from, from their individual water supply, to say so. Finally, I would like to dedicate a few words to the Water Act, which, in addition to these technical matters, was to bring some changes to the Law on Public Property and other laws, the Construction Act. What I think has been a little problematic in the last few years, and for many years in fact, is the jurisdiction and violation of jurisdiction between "Serbian" as a Public Enterprise, "Belgrade" as a Public Enterprise, "Vojvodnavod" as a Public Enterprise, and on the other hand, the Republic Water Directorate. So before, there was a interference of jurisdiction, i.e., I would say, and some disagreements about who should decide in certain matters. It is good to hear that the Public Enterprise "Belgrade" will be transformed into the Public Enterprise "Serbia". With circumstances, that these workers who work there, most of them, will move to work in the "Serbian" and will be one "Serbian" company, at least my knowledge goes to that point that there will be one company, which will own all the waters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When I talk about water and waterways. Mr. Minister, please just think about one proposal that I am giving you on behalf of the JS Parliament Club. The problem of many floods, I say, is that in most parts of Serbia, these water streams are being narrowed down. How? It's just that no one's taking care of these water streams. The trees are planted, the water flow is narrowed down, and when there's bigger rainfall, water has to go somewhere, pours into fields, into houses, etc. So, there you should see, if there's a possibility, that these weeds are regulated in one way so that they can receive all the water that is found at a given time. What happened several years ago was a problem. You seem to me, Mr. Minister, to have just said, if I've heard you well and understood well, that whoever came up with this now that has sent out payment solutions, whether to say contributions or something to drain, should be, to say the least, sanctioned in some way. Please take a case of the area where people were getting water into their houses, flooded fields, ruined incomes, offerings, and today you give him a solution for deforestation where he should pay for 2015 and 2016 some amount. How do you think that man reacts, who had that problem? Who did this, I don't know. On the other hand, I intervened with one amendment to the last member of the Law on Water Amendments, when it is predicted that in the following year, after the entry into force of this law, this solution brings a public enterprise for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is "Serbia", for Vojvodina, I guess. I suggested, and I would ask you to think about it, to postpone it, that application, in one six months. I don't think they're ready, they're not capable, they're not able to do this job in such a short time. What is also important is, when it comes to flood protection, that funds that are collected in this way or in other ways, are distributed much more, that they are given to enterprises that care for water in the Republic of Serbia, so that they can be faster and more adequate and in time to make defensive dikes, where the most critical areas in the Republic of Serbia are and that we do not happen every year in almost the same areas of floods than some rivers, words, streams, etc. It's not just big cities that need to be defended, it's not just defensive embankments, it's just big rivers. It is also necessary to defend and defend those areas where, back in a few years, maltenes have been shown once, or in two years, or once in a year, or twice in a year, major problems and spills of these streams, these rivers, these streams, and then there are major damages. So we're wondering, is it possible that every year we're solving the damage, and we're not going to warn, to determine larger funds, to simply defend ourselves from the possibility of floods? Okay, well, it comes down to the fact that in some situations it's not possible to predict large quantities of rainfall during a period of time. It happens in far more developed countries than we are, but at least you should warn what is normal, with normal rainfall, under normal circumstances. Let me just say it one more time. No one could have predicted that in 1999 in Jagodina, that Jagodina's city would be flooded, that it was flooded, but behind that, because we did it where the most critical points were, we had to invest in the funds, and after two years, three of them, when there were great rainfalls again, there was no spilling of those rivers, which once in 50 years reached that level. Waste water, and you mentioned it. I think there's a lot more to be taken into account, especially in cities that have trouble cleaning up wastewater. They don't have wastewater treatment systems at all, so wastewaters are distributed, so to speak, they're directed to a variety of water streams, and you know what damage it is to the animal and plant world in those rivers. So there you would have to, Mr. Minister, with your associates, find the possibility of, and by some programme, trying to get rid of it in an appropriate way and to protect, and ecologically, Serbia from some pollution and some other things that can happen. Finally, I would like to conclude that the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support all three proposed laws in the voting day, and we would like to congratulate you in advance, and we would like for farmers to benefit from its application of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10018	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10019	Dear Mr. Petrovic, thank you for your support. I'd just like three things to focus on from your exposure, maybe supplement them. For these small producers, the processors, we're going to bring in special processing regulations, so that they can, as I say, be legally involved in the whole system. How they produce, their processing that they export to local markets, which they place in commercial stores, so that they have a foothold in regulations. About how it wouldn't all be happening in a gray or black zone. The idea is to identify the minimum measures that are necessary for them to function properly on the market and thus help manufacturers to step up, step up and cross the processing sector. As for these devastated areas, we literally have an idea with amendments to the Encouragement Act, to introduce some tools that will have a targeted character for a particular area. For example, in the White Palanca area, you already have a system for growing medicinal plants there. But we will now provide them with the opportunity to develop processing facilities that will accumulate a larger amount of people so that they can enter the system and hand over their goods that they previously carried out. As for young people, we will have a special programme with the Development Fund and a special programme with the IBRD, where we will extend the grace periods from the current six months to probably a year and a half or two, interest rates at this point are not a problem, so much, but our deadlines are paying off and our problem is those grace periods. That's the part we're working on, and we want to improve the situation on the ground. As for the deadlines for the payment of agricultural products that someone delivered on the market, we had one at that time a revolution a few years ago, when it was for local communities, or for all public authorities, when they were obliged within 45 days to pay and the Rino system. The idea is that if I were to comment on each individual situation, we probably wouldn't be enough for three days. The idea is to set up a system next year where there will be payment deadlines in this sphere. It exists in the environment, the problem is control systems. We need to develop them, so people who deliver their agricultural products can be guaranteed that they will be paid within some time frame. We have this particular problem with buyers who form certain business entities that only exist for one ransom, and after they disappear, and you have no one left to chase for a particular commodity. It's wherever you want and wherever you turn. We have to take care of it and it is our idea to advance in 2017-2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10020	I thank Minister Nedimovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10021	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, today we need to discuss important bill proposals. In my opinion, agriculture is one of the most important industries in our country and needs to be approached with great seriousness. Unfortunately, if that was the case in the past, it wasn't, and especially in the previous four years, that is, here's five, but not to go back. Years ago, I can say for a decade, there is no adequate agricultural policy, there is no courage, there is no vision in the ministry to implement those adequate measures that would take advantage of the potentials that we have today in Serbia. These potentials could be the easiest to hire Serbian citizens and reduce the biggest problem, which is unemployment in Serbia. So I'm going to start by starting with Article 4. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development is the position it says -- the ministry's budget cannot be less than 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget for a given year in terms of the Law governing the budgetary system. So you've broken the law this year, too, for the 2017 budget. This was last year and last year and every year since 2012, as the agricultural budget was less than 5% as foreseen by the law. Don't just tell me that some governments did it before 2012, because it's not a good answer, because you rule, or not you, I apologize to you, but the governments of Alexander Vukic have ruled for five years and this is the third government with several reconstructions. Unfortunately, you are the fourth minister in the Ministry of Agriculture, so we are changing one minister annually and we expect that we will have consistency and predictability of measures and agricultural policy in the Republic of Serbia. That's not how it works, and now another election is announced, the question is who will actually continue to be the new minister. As for what the governments of Alexander Vukic said about agriculture, I'll quote it. Since 2012, the following has been said in Ivica Dacic's exposé – ladies and gentlemen of agriculture can make a significant contribution to overall economic growth in the short term, provided that agricultural policy measures define sustainable and balanced development. We plan to increase the agrarian budget together and, in the short run, to establish the Agrarian Policy Act, which will be predictable in the long run, so that farmers can plan their production in the long run. I absolutely agree with the above, but is that realized? It's not. Also in 2012 in the exposé – we will do everything possible to get a national accreditation for the use of IPARD funds quickly, we are talking about 2012. In 2014, the exposés of Aleksandar Vukic, says – an increase in agricultural production by 30%. It's a lie. It didn't happen. It goes on to say – in the next period we have to work further on the activities to establish the accreditation of the necessary structures for the use of the IPARD pre-accession funds of the European Union, which would meet the conditions for attracting pre-accession funds in front of the 32 to 38 million access funds. It's a lie. Nothing happened. I speak further, exposé 2016, again Aleksandar Vucic says – at the end of last year, an application was submitted for the management of IPARD funds and on September 11th here at the government's election said Serbia had finally received accreditation to withdraw funds from the IPARD programme. Minister Nedimovic said at this point that we expect to get this in April 2017, and we were three days before the publication of Aleksandar Vukic that we received accreditation, the Ministry received notice on 8 August that a temporary accreditation was suspended. So, so much for that. Now that we're talking about agriculture there are stories nice, I support all that Minister Nedimovic says. He is a new minister and I hope he will be the one who manages to do something in agriculture unlike the previous three ministers, but there is a huge discrepancy between political rhetoric and between realisation. That's the point of the problem. When we need to talk about agriculture, then our farmers are great, then we talk fairy tales about how important agriculture is to us, and actually when we have to deal with agriculture and realize something in the area of agriculture, it goes far harder. Now, as far as the IPARD programme is concerned – the IPARD programme is something that Serbia has a great chance of missing, unlike other countries that have been in the process of joining the European Union, we are most irresponsible. Therefore, the IPAR programme is a programme that is valid from 2014 to 2020. We are in 2017 today, I can say freely, that so far we have done absolutely nothing to create conditions so that our money does not fail. So, as for the IPARD, there are two things, it's one thing to meet political conditions, and the other thing is to meet technical conditions to have the right to use these funds. Serbia has met the political condition of becoming a candidate for EU membership, and as far as technical data is concerned by administrations, i.e. the training of institutions that have neither yet been built nor trained. We haven't been able to receive 106 workers who are supposed to work at the Agency for Agricultural Payments all this year, train them and prepare them for work. It was received in the first phase of 46, and the rest is 60. I don't know if it's over. So, the serious problem is the admission of officials. So, as to how much funds we have been granted, 175m euros have been granted to withdraw in tranches. How many years is it approved for countries in the environment? Hungary - 53m euros annually, Romania - 193, Poland - 236m, and we around 25m. So we got the same or something less than Croatia, which has twice as much land and twice as weak agricultural production as Serbia. But we got less because they knew from the EU that we didn't have a system of institutions built and we don't trust that we'd be able to withdraw these 175 million, and that's exactly how it happens. So, as far as Croatia is concerned, in Croatia 600 employees worked to process 280 requirements for an incentive from the IPAR programme. We can expect to have at least 1,000, I hope, and we have a hundred and some officers. In Croatia it took them 18 months to complete the procedure. I don't know how long it's gonna take us, since we're in 2017 and given the deadlines that are long enough. As far as I'm concerned, the problem with the IPAR program is two things. First of all, don't say anything about pre-financing. The IPAR programme implies that the funds are returned after the realisation of the investments. So, that means that if a farmer wants to raise an orchard, wants to buy some equipment, wants to set up a cow farm, he has to do it with his own means, and then compete and apply for those funds to be refunded. In a situation like this, there are very few of our farmers, who have been poored in previous years, who are willing to finance this. Croatia solved this by lending farmers with the help of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development under very favourable conditions and allowing them to apply through this programme. What's the next problem with the IPAR program? Therefore, the costs of applying themselves from other countries' practices ranged from 10 to 13 000 euros for consultants, for various paperwork, for programmes, applications, etc. It is also another serious problem that leads to anyone applying for an amount below 50 or 100,000 euros having no justification to compete on the project. Furthermore, what's the biggest problem, and that's what you don't talk about, Minister, and neither does the government nor anyone before you, is who has the right and what the conditions are that anyone can even compete on the basis of the IPAR programme and achieve these grants that will be 50, 60 or 70%, depending on the project and the area. So in Serbia, you have, as you know, 631 and slightly more than a thousand agricultural holdings, of which you have 298 thousand, almost 300 below two hectares of land by land and 182 thousand to five hectares. So with an area of up to five hectares, you have 480 thousand agricultural holdings of 631 thousand, which is about 75% of the total agricultural holdings. When the ability to invest in agriculture is added to this, so that they can compete for IPARD, or invest projects, we come to the conclusion that a tenth of the percentage of the agricultural holdings will not be able to participate in this project, and here is why. What are the specific conditions? That's what I tell Serbian farmers and Serbian citizens. In order for someone to apply to IPARD, it is necessary that if they are involved in the production of milk, they have a minimum of 20 head cows of up to 300 cows or over 300 cows. Then, if it deals with meat production, it takes 20 to 1,000 cattle, 150 to 1,000 sheep or goats, 100 to 10,000 pigs, four to 50,000 broilers. Then, if they are engaged in warfare, agricultural holdings that have the right to have a minimum of two to 50 hectares of land or 50 to 100 hectares or more than 100 hectares. If they are involved in the production of fruit and vegetables, in order to compete with IPARD, they must have planted areas of two to 20 hectares in case of strawberry fruit, i.e. from five to 100 hectares of another fruit. So if someone has 4.5 hectares for now, they don't have the right to apply for IPARD funds. Also, with regard to indoor production or plastics, agricultural holdings with a minimum of 500 squares to 10,000 have the right to compete under this programme. Now, what's your answer? Your answer is – we will provide for these small farmers, and they are much more than large in Serbia, a national programme. That's where we come to the Encouragement Act. In the Law on Incentives from the poor budget, I say again to the poor, with respect, ministers, your engagement to increase the budget this year, I will tell you that Croatia, I am taking it as an example because the nearest one, before joining the EU, had an agricultural budget of 600m euros, twice as much as we do. We have 300 and we boast that we have made a major shift because we have increased the agrarian budget. In Serbia today, ministers, apple imports, peppers are imported, tomatoes are imported, and milk will be imported. So we are the country where apples are exported for half a year, and apples are imported to Serbia in the second half of the year. What is the biggest problem, what we export, I also told the prime minister, a large part goes to re-export, a re-export from EU countries that goes through Serbia. I should not do this either, nor any of the MPs, to control these gray flows today, but rather to do the competent institutions, inspection services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to deal with re-export, not to let our goods of our farmers go to waste while selling goods from the EU. Furthermore, as far as incentives are concerned, cosmetic changes are in the Encouragement Act, because there's no incentive if there's no money. I guess that's a clear thing. I welcome the introduction of a provision to support young agricultural producers. I also welcome the provision concerning rural areas and specific programmes. I also welcome that you have recognized for the first time now the production of vines and fruit seedlings in the Encouragement Law, by having one amendment to do so so that we can further develop it, because it is also a branch of agriculture that is very important. But, please, you don't change the essence of the Encouragement Act. You're still giving incentives per hectare instead of investment. You left 6,000 dinars per hectare, seven dinars per litre of milk, that doesn't mean anything. In EU countries, in Europe, which has already passed the process of empowering its farmers, 900 euros per hectare is given, and 6,000 dinars are given in Serbia. Do you think our farmer with 6,000 dinars will be able to compete with anyone from Europe? It won't work. He won't be able to compete. Completely missed measurements. You left that at the same level. That's the essence and the greatest coverage of the measure is exactly that, as are the regresses for fertilizer and fuel. You don't change what's the point. As far as milk is concerned, you can't keep defending our producers forever. You must strengthen them, gentlemen. This is the essence of incentives, that our farmers are strong and economically strong to be able to apply new technologies, new knowledge, and that they can be competitive in terms of yield, in terms of cheap production with competition from Europe and the world. We can't defend agricultural producers by closing the borders. As for fruity fruit material, here's a typical example of how agricultural production is developing in Serbia, I'm just going to give you the same example in other areas. In 2012, the export of fruit fruity fruit material from Serbia was six million and 600,000 seedlings, and imports of two million and 800, 2013 was 9.5 million, and imports of four million and 700, 2014, 8.5 million, and imports of five million and 800, in order to make exports slightly below seven million in 2015, and imports of over seven million. We forget something where we have a hundred-year tradition, which is precisely the production of grape fruit material and fruit seedlings. Now more imports are being imported in Serbia than exports, without telling you how much income we were, we were the leader in Europe in the 1980s in that agricultural production. Unfortunately, today our farmers, due to the lack of incentives, are raising their plantings in Macedonia. Why? Because in Macedonia they make 40 euro cents per vine and one fruit cane if they raise in Macedonia, and they export the same. It's a reality in Serbia today. As far as the Water Act is concerned, I welcome the initiative that this area that is completely unsettled is completely unsettled. So, we've suffered huge damage, but we didn't have to wait five years for Vukic to change four agriculture ministers, change 40 ministers, three governments, I don't know how much, to get there to do something and welcome that initiative. It is good to introduce order in this area, especially because of the consequences they suffered during the 2014 and 2015 floods, and I expect that funds will be identified because the law is a dead letter on paper, unless there is a budget to implement it in practice and to carry out the measures. As far as the floods are concerned, only in Trieste were the floods of millions, I speak in euros. The biggest damage the farmers have just suffered. The greatest damage was done precisely by West Morava, which is the first-row waterway, which has no defensive embankment, which is not regulated and which is causing huge damage, changing its course of relations and entire surfaces and hectares of farmland. I have one question, which is – what will happen to the accompanying regulations relating to part of the mineral water exploitation funds, which do not belong to local self-governments, is specifically the "Mivela" water factory? The municipality of Trstenik does not receive a single dinar from the fee for the exploitation of the “Mivela” mineral water that is on its territory, as well as the source. In the end, I hope that the Water Law will introduce order and that, in accordance with the Law, activities will be carried out and that, if we respect the Law, it will likely affect the law, that lawless objects, such as the cottages of the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, will also be removed or collapsed. If it could already be done with objects in Savamala during the night and in one non-transparent way, here you have complete legal justification, not to repeat the Savamala case, but to do so when it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10022	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10023	Dear President, honourable MPs, thank you for the opportunity for some of these things that have been presented, which do not stand at all, to comment. I understand your position, where you simply quote everything that exists in other countries, and I don't understand how you didn't find it appropriate to go to the Ministry of Agriculture site and see everything about IPARD, who has the right to compete, in what way, what the procedures are. I'm sorry you said there was nowhere to be found and to be seen. On the other hand, we've done a lot of field education, and I see you know some neighboring countries very well how they work. As far as pre-financing is concerned, of course we're taking care of it. We have prepared funds for credit support under the Ministry of Agriculture in a special division and we will use that for pre-financing support that is related to IPARD. I don't think it's a very good example for you to take advantage of Croatia, especially in the part of reducing the level of agricultural production, because that's what they've been up to lately. It's our idea to lead to an increase in agricultural production. If you followed closely everything that happened in previous years, and I see that you were dealing with statistics, there is an increase in agricultural production in Serbia – 7%. Look, compared to the previous year, that's information you can get back on the website of the Republic Statistics Institute, but it's a website that's in the domain where it says "sr". Croatia is a good example at the level of direct payments per hectare, but this does not lead, sir, to development. That doesn't lead to development. To me, the idea, this ministry, this government, is to develop those tools, those measures that will lead to increased competitiveness. It is our goal, not to put agriculture to sleep, and when the moment of truth comes we have a situation as it has now happened in Croatia on the basis of milk. We have premiums per litre of seven dinars. Sometimes I don't know what this is really about. As for the floods and all those things you've been talking about, about risk management, if you've been reading the amendments and additions to the Encouragement Act, we don't have just as a measure of subsidizing insurance premiums, but we have complete risk management. That's very important. As for the increase in imports of fruit material, which you were talking about earlier, it is up to us to increase the capacity of the producer of our fruit material, but what you said leads to a complete error, the fruit material is not imported to throw itself somewhere, but to establish production, as far as I know. It's the same idea to increase the export of our material. I think some things about IPARD accreditation have never been said that we have that accreditation. Well, if I ever, any day, I said, we're only in charge after seven days. This government and its intensities are that I have this accreditation precisely because of this money that stands at the disposal of farmers. I just wanted to see how we could improve all these three laws here, but, all due respect, I didn't see anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10024	Replica, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10025	Your Honor, I understand when you say nothing is clear to you. And it shouldn't be because you've been here recently, so this is your term of office for a few months, but also how it should be clear to Alexander Vukic and all his governments since 2012 and so on. That is why you have not answered my question – who is responsible for us not doing anything so far, but only now, by adopting this law, we are creating preconditions that we can be accredited, that is to say, in the process of attracting, or implementing an IPARD project of 175m euros? We haven't done it for four years, or three, if we want to watch it since 2014, when the project began to be realized. I fully understand that it is not clear to you and I don't blame you, don't get me wrong, I know you well, and I believe you will do anything, as much as they allow. But this is a country where one man decides everything and I'm afraid you'll be able to realize your wishes, your ideas and your program. As for the statistics that 7% increased agriculture in the previous year, I support you in that, but you know where? In re-export, Mr Nedimovicu, in a re-export of goods not manufactured in Serbia. Our exports have been increased. Calculate on which surfaces in Serbia are produced pears, apples, dunes, and how much we exported or how much we produce tomatoes and how much we export them. It's very easy to get the information on whether we're selling our goods or being abused and selling other people's goods. So, no matter how you look at this, I'll tell you one thing. Serbia's farmers today barely make ends meet. Ninety percent of them don't have the money to start spring sowing and production for 2017 and you're still talking about how good it is. Nothing is good, and we have to work fast and hard to help farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10026	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10027	I just want you to hear me the right way because I didn't say things were great at any time, but we're changing these regulations to improve the situation in agriculture. Much has been done with regard to the accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority. We're now removing blocking factors. I'm also grateful to a previous colleague who's been doing this job and who's done a lot here, but we're gonna sort this out. As for re-export, from September 15th, our Plant Protection Authority has been monitoring every shipment from the beginning to the end, in accordance with an agreement with its Russian colleagues. Don't have a single dilemma that something doesn't work, that we're banned from exporting fruit like some other countries. Everything works in the best order, we even have an increase in the export of some of our goods. The fact is that we follow the flow of every shipment from the orchard until it reaches the final consumer. This is our obligation, and if it were different, we would not be able to produce fruit exports to the Russian market and to the EU market at this time. So these are the facts and I think we should talk about facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10028	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10029	I thank the chairman. Dear guests, members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister as well as in the presentations of my predecessors, the focus is mostly placed between these three agricultural laws, on the law which, in the procedural sense, deals most directly with IPARD programs, and I will also look back in the mainly part of my presentation, with the fact that by blocking a factor that has several times been potentiated by the minister himself when it comes to incompetence at the moment to accredit the Agrarian Payments Administration, I have to return several months and years back. I will remind you that as early as March 2015 we heard from the previous minister, Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that the funds of the IPARD programme will be provided by the end of this year, so in 2015. Then in June of the same year, we listened to the announcement of the previous minister when she said the first call for IPRARD funds would be in early 2016, referring to these key and so important 175m euros from the IPARD Fund. When the minister was also asked in June 2015 when accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Agency was expected to be used, she said from the booze, from the cannon that all the activities planned were undertaken within the framework of the preparation of these procedures. Then the news came to us in September 2016, so for some time after the government was formed, we now heard from the minister that this news came from Brussels on August 8th, so a few days before the election of the Republic Government which turned out to be a real disgrace and a disgrace to Serbia, which is that because of the inability of the state and the work of the Ministry of Agriculture is now blocked accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority, and thus the right to withdraw in the first tranche 15m euros for our couples, and then the progressive and lagging of funds over the next few years. I find it extremely difficult that our farmers, believing ministers, lost as we all have lost almost a year and a half together now, and we're going to phase, everything's ready, now we're going to do it all. Then it turns out that it isn't, and I would say, even though you praised your previous presentation of your predecessor somehow from the look on your face, I don't get the impression that you believe in those praises. My key question is that if we lost a year and a half to now we're going to have a phase, as we now trust you, Mr. Minister, that you're going to solve it so clearly and correctly by April of next year, or by the end of next year. Even if we take into account, let's say, the traditional empathy in relation to our duchy community and estimating your previous work, that's not enough justification, and let's say that enough empathy for also some missing provisions in these laws that LSV will try to influence and propose amendments. I hope you will be aware of what was truly a disgrace to this country, until August when we heard of this devastating result, that is, the inability to accredit the Agrarian Payment Authority to take into account our amendments and speed up the quality of these three laws that are currently under discussion. You'll allow it, you know very well who's holding onto the word and who's holding onto the ears. We'd really like to believe all the words you've put out here, but I'm afraid we need a lot more arguments about it and I see that you approve of this attitude of mine and that you understand absolutely all of our misunderstandings with which we perform very honestly here in the National Assembly. What is truly amazing to us is that you have failed to recognize the Vojvodina even in the control role, or the role of control over IPARD funds, even if you have been entrusted to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. We'll try to speed that up with the amendment as well. I believe you'll have an understanding of that, because you know very well that the Regional Ministry of Agriculture has participated intensively in training organised by the ministry, when it comes to these programmes and on several occasions. Also, I have to say, I expected you to deal with the existing regulation, which derogates this law in certain provisions, which is an incentive in plant production, because from the former or earlier practically 100 euros per ha incentives are still reduced to 3,000 dinars per hectare. By regulation, when it comes to these incentives on plant production, I must say that ours, especially banana paraori, are extremely concerned, absolutely not seeing their perspective when it comes to plant production. What we're also interested in, and we haven't been able to figure out from these legal readings is whether or not they're going to. vulnerable areas to be defined and defined for example before the start of the work of Tenis or after the start of the work of Tenis. This is very important given that you also did not recognise an important segment, and we are going to try to improve the law in that direction, and that is environmental protection and everything that involves environmental protection due to intensive agricultural production. Now I'm going to give you a plastic example, as I, which I'm not a agricultural environmental engineer, how I managed to identify him, and that all the participants in the discussion understand him and I'm going back to the aforementioned company "Tenis". I've been explained by experts in your area that in the home country of this company, which is Germany, it can't, for example. one farm that counts more than 30,000 pigs while they announce that they will be able to have up to 50,000 pigs in our Banatian area of the Tenis farm. I was also explained by experts in your area that in Germany, very strict procedures are when it comes to the treatment of wastewater, or anything that comes from farms such as Tenis farms, i.e. that the water that is being released, of course polluted from the farm, must be at a higher point in the stream than it is, in the water from where the company takes water for further use. This means that this company and all others like it need to take particular care of those waters that it releases into the river, i.e. it must have special plants and filters to clean these waters. If the company "Tenis" is engaged and started in such an orderly or conditioned framework, it, as far as I know, will not need to act in this way when it comes to the drop phase, i.e. taking water. After all, why would she invest an additional 2m euros for such plants in Serbia? So, just through this example, I want to ask an additional question about the treatment of vulnerable areas, that is, this situation with the number of pigs and the behaviour of the environment, because we didn't recognize it in these regulations. What we're also interested in and also raises doubts about our trust in your given word here, when it comes to meeting the deadlines, to going back to the Agrarian Payments Authority of the IPARD programme, is that you've been administering the whole, let me say, by projecting the project process for nine plus six months. So, almost a year and a half is lost to the administration of the project, which is, if you yourself stated the end of the accreditation process ended in April of the month, that the area for competition and application will be opened by the end of this year, these more than a year cannot possibly enter that annual limit when the first 15 million dinars can be withdrawn from the IPARD fund. We will also constructively want to participate in the revision of these legal solutions, propose amendments that recommend that these procedural administrative phases be drastically or significantly reduced, especially given that you said yourself that everything is ready, that human capacities are almost at the right level, that everything goes according to plan and then there is no reason for nine months plus six months to take an administrative phase to decide only on projects that would have the right to withdraw funds from the IPARD Fund and further, we will have more amendments. In addition, I would like to draw attention to also one segment that we are missing, not recognised in the law, which is incentives related to rural tourism. Surely, you are better than me, since you have the opportunity to visit the whole country, to learn about the situation of how small holdings operate in the gray zone in this rural tourism area, which, just as you do, could keep them in their native areas, therefore, not to be directed to those flows of economic migration and to recognize the incentives and support of rural tourism very decadently stated in the law, according to our amendment what is now missing, to help them get involved in this system and to continue to live on from their work as they have done so so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10030	Thank you. My colleague Bošković Bogosavljevic, you have the right to reply because you are mentioned twice directly in the presentation of Marinika Tepic's National Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10031	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out in principle what was done over the past two years. The fact is that the arguments presented do not stand because the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection launched the IPARD project in 2014. The project had to be launched significantly earlier since 2004. In 2014, however, we first adopted the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development, which was the basis for the development of the IPARD programme. The Ministry of Agriculture also formed an IPARD program. The programme presented it to the European Commission, it adopted it and accepted funding at the end of January 2015. Since then, we've been working on preparing operational structures. I'll remind you, we've moved the Agrarian Payments Administration from Sapac to Belgrade, which is a condition for the implementation of the IPARD organisational structure. At the end of December 2015, the government allowed additional staff to be employed to work on the implementation of this programme. The employment process has been initiated. The law was drafted, and if no election had been called, this law would have been much earlier in the congregation procedure. Otherwise, Serbia and the European Commission are partners on this project and all the objections and suggestions that followed after their work visit are in the direction of monitoring the course of preparation of our operational structures. So, all the merits for this debate today deserve in fact the members of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Office for European Integration, the Minister of European Integration, the Ministry of Finance, who worked on this in the previous two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10032	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10033	Thank you. I'd just like to take a few things out. I'm here to do, Prime Minister Vukic gave me a job and one of my jobs is to get an accreditation for the Agrarian Payments Authority and to solve this problem once and for all. You're right, the Parliament chose me, on the proposal of Prime Minister Vukic, I didn't say well, I apologize. The other thing I want to say is, I'm telling you the facts of what we did. Once again, to keep the public clean with what we've done, human resources, 42 people received, by the end of December we'll have 50 more people. This will give us the conditions to meet the criteria that are foreseen. At this point, that's enough for us. For measures one and three, for which we will be accredited, that is quite enough for us. Of course, someone's going to say we need a thousand, there were those words, but for the complete structure it's necessary, but for what we're going to do right now, for farmers and for processors, that'll be enough. The regulations are in front of you, which were, of course, in public competition. No one's being treated differently. The public competition lasted quite long enough, commissions exist and everything will be done in the most transparent way possible. As far as this regulation is concerned, if the Assembly so decides, we will have one more thing fully regulated. The IPARD program was corrected, there were some words in the previous speakers about it. We have made adjustments to the benefit of Serbian farmers. We had in some things illogical. We did so with the consent of the people who decide on it in Brussels and we did so by, I say, putting the scopes to the level of making most agricultural producers available in Serbia, not at 20 hectares to be borderline, but we brought them down to two. The rules that define old benchmarks are made, they will be finished. I'm not asking you to trust me personally. I say we do this job. Whether I'm going to convince you enough or not, it's mine to try, but I know we're going to get the result. As far as other matters are concerned, trusting jobs at the level of the AP Vojvodina, this is where the Agrarian Payments Authority is accredited, the organ is accredited. In later stages at regional offices, we will transfer some of these powers, there is no dispute. One of those offices will be in Novi Sad and elsewhere, and there's absolutely no problem. At this point, we need to accredit and we can't trust anyone's business, we need to accredit management.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10034	Thank you. The word has a folk letter by Marinika Tepic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10035	Thank you. We've heard here that the arguments I made don't stand. I did not cross some imaginary arguments, but rather what was made public, so audio and video statements that are very verifiable. So, I'm not dealing with any imaginary arguments, I'm doing it in a factual state. We also heard that the election was to blame for everything, not for the first time. When it comes to some failures, when it comes to mistakes, it's always the election that's to blame. We also heard who was responsible. We didn't hear who was responsible for these blocking factors, and this one, too, wasn't quite clear to me. One side claims she's the one who deserves you when I listen to you, Minister, I hear you're the one who deserves it. I'd also like to hear from you who, in fact, is responsible for the direction of rebuffing. Of course, I also want to ask you what we're going to do, Minister, if there's another choice? Again, none of the IPARD programs, if it turns out, as we've heard the elections have blocked all these procedures and actions in the previous period, it's quite clear they don't need arguments, the facts are there, that we'll be zero again, if there's another choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10036	Replica. National MP Snezana Bošković Bogosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10037	What I'm trying to say is that I'm misread, my statement that the election is guilty of everything. I just said that this law would have been in the congregation procedure sooner if the election hadn't been made. As you know, in March of the month I defended a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, since then there has been no legislative activity. I am very happy and pleased that today, colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture are here to defend this law. I didn't say who was more or less responsible, we're all responsible for what we've been doing since 2014, and if we really want to ask ourselves who's responsible, those who haven't done anything on this project from 2004 to 2014. Everything I've said can be checked. All of this is written in documents assessing Serbia's progress in the European integration process, the 2015 and 2016 documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10038	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10039	Dear citizens of Serbia, I would first of all like to express a great satisfaction that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are finally discussing agriculture and the village, two topics that remain so neglected, I would say even humiliated, in the interests of our political elites in some previous period. The parks are, of course, fully ready for this topic. We in our parliamentary group have two experts, starting with Professor Miladin Ševarlic, one of our most famous agro-economies, to his younger colleague, Mr Ivan Kostic, who will, of course, have the opportunity to talk with me about this very important topic. My role is, first of all, to open this topic in a political way and point out what is the problem of the current moment of Serbian agriculture and villages, and then to see if these solutions proposed by the Serbian government are rights, or completely missed and wrong solutions. These solutions, let me put it this way, look like one deep wound and one gangrene that's been hit by an entire organism, one cancer that's eating your organism, tape up a patch and say, "Here, this patch will help and solve the problem of your organism's disease." So, you won't, Mr. Minister, solve anything with this, this is just one in a series of fakery and waste of time in the wrong and missed agricultural policies in the last 16 years. It would be wrong to say that you are the only one responsible for the breakdown of Serbian agriculture and villages, you are only gravediers of Serbian agriculture. Someone else has been going to kill Serbian agriculture and the village since 5 October 2000, today you, Mr. Minister, the government of Aleksandr Vukic, are finishing this cemetery business, literal destruction, finality, Serbian agriculture and villages. Evidence of this is the lack of the ministers in the previous four, or for five years now, the SNS authorities. Four years from now, four different ministers. You seem to follow that vegetation sequence to sow each year for a new agriculture minister. It says that you have no long-term plan, it says that you have no long-term idea what to do with Serbian agriculture, because no one normal with a serious idea would change the Minister of Agriculture every year. In agriculture, the most important long-term strategic planning and security that you give to farmers is such planning. What security do you give them by changing the Minister of Agriculture each year, changing, exchanging and supplementing the agricultural law every year? What I want to say first is the state of our village. One, even in the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Serbian State, you have no mention of the village. There are cities and other settlements. Villages are not mentioned as if they were gone, despite the fact that half of Serbia still lives in the village and is engaged in agriculture, even if it lives in the city. The other thing that hurts our village is moving from village to smaller cities, from smaller cities to larger cities, from larger cities to Belgrade, to abroad. So our villages are empty, especially the border, at the borders of our country, especially those in passive areas. The special theme is the Houses of Culture and the cultural life of our villages at all. The theme is women in the country, who are humiliated and offended by all previous authorities, because when and how they got any serious right when mothers are, when they're pregnant, when they're pregnant, when pensioners are in the country. What is, of course, the most dramatic, along with this discharge of the Serb village, is the fact that between the two lists we lost 150,000 family owners. So, every fifth family head in Serbia no longer exists, and you cannot watch it and watch the collapse of the Serbian village. Also, you do not notice the devastating fact that different data, they speak differently, but that hundreds of thousands of hectares of farmland in Serbia, remains unprocessed. Someone says, half a million acres, someone says a million acres. How many hundreds of thousands of hectares, Mr. Minister, in Serbia, of farmland remains unprocessed? How can all ministers in previous governments view unprocessed agricultural land without doing anything to encourage the processing of the farmland. At the time of DOS destruction of the farm, which you complete, as undertakers of Serbian agriculture and villages, 65 agricultural and industrial combinations were destroyed. What were the agricultural and industrial combinations? It is the key point of Serbia's agricultural and food industries, which have everything from production, through processing to trade in basic life supplies. So, the entire chain of production, processing and trade remain in this country, and therefore all profits remain in this country. That's what you've destroyed since October 05, 2000. You would now destroy and sell the PKB, the last remaining remnant of the once powerful agricultural and industrial combination industry, one of the largest agricultural and industrial combinations in Europe, located near the city of two million inhabitants, which has a huge area, which has an incredible perspective. Instead of standing behind the PKK and saying – this is the strategic branch of the Serbian food and processing industry that will link everything else we're going to launch in the field, you want to sell it too. After all, every fourth privatisation in the last 16 years concerning agriculture and the food processing industry has failed, and no one has been responsible for the ruined potential of Serbia's agriculture. What I especially want to point out to you is your disastrous idea of the arrival of the great German meat producer Tenis in Serbia. It is a German economic interest, but it is not Serbian, it is not domestic economic interest. We don't need another big European tycoon to destroy the competition of our small domestic producers, we need the support of our small domestic producers, we need the association of our producers into cooperatives, we need the support of the state of cooperatives, we need the restoration of agricultural and industrial combinations, we need the restoration of our domestic industry and agricultural machinery. That's what you're supposed to support with the money and hectares you're giving Tennessee, as if we need a new economic German occupation here. What you've already broken, as your promise, Mr. Minister, is that by the end of this year you'll be introducing an independent milk control lab. And here it is, gone. She's gone, Mr. Minister. You've already broken your promise after four months in power. So there's no independent control of the milk. We're still using our milk producers from, I don't know what kind of buy-in cells and variants. What I want in particular to alarm citizens is that, since 01 September 2017, foreigners have been able to buy agricultural land in Serbia, by, devastating, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which has begun by those before you, Eurofanatics, and you continue, the biggest Eurofanatics in the history of DOS. So, you want foreigners to be able to buy agricultural land in Serbia since 2017. I don't see you doing anything to stop it and stop it, and you've been in power for five years, Mr. Nedimovic. For five years, you have been in power, not to change this devastating item of the SAA, as all European countries have done that have joined the EU. Look what Hungary has done and you see how serious countries have protected their agricultural land from selling to foreigners. Of course, in August 2012, one of the first large measures of the SNS in power was the release of 1,658 agronoms, i.e. advisors' assistants with one text message. You still owe them some money, so I ask you, Mr. Nedimovic, when are you going to pay people what you owe them when you fire them with a text message? What did you do for these five years of your authority, referring to this disastrous DOS policy from October 5, 2000 to today? Under one – you have drastically reduced subsidies to agricultural producers in Serbia, you have made farmers sick this year with these irrigation fees, the depletion you charge for both 2015 and 2016. Have you ever provided serious ransom prices, ransom safety, security of price levels? You've destroyed the domestic agricultural industry of machinery. Do we have to buy our Serbian tractor or are we going to buy the Croatians that they made in the ice-based factory, and we had our factory and we just had to invest in it and train it? Now we don't know how to build tractors anymore, we don't know how to build motors, we don't know all the connected machinery, we don't know what we're doing, we don't know what we're doing. We don't know what we're doing. We don't know what we're doing. Who destroyed it? Who is now not investing in the reconstruction of the domestic agricultural machinery industry? That's the real question. What about cooperative? How does this get in genetically modified food and seeds? You said yourself that you recently found 11 acres. Wait, how does that get in, Mr. Nedimovic? When did he sow it? Please state the name of the owner of the plot that sows GMO products. Say, is it criminally punished, has it been processed, has anyone been responsible for importing, transporting genetically modified food and seed so far? Who, when, where? Names and numbers. You've abolished customs duties on foreign agricultural goods, killed a domestic producer. Now you're thinking of abolishing these customs protections concerning imports of milk, which also kills the competition of the domestic producer. You're telling yourself a brilliant thought, which Serbian citizens need to hear once more, that the EU SAA, which is being executed in our economic interests, does not prohibit us from protecting our domestic goods by customs and outside customs measures. Finally, someone should say that. Congratulations. I thank you for discovering this truth that we have the right to protect domestic goods from unfair competition, from milk powder, from frozen goods from EU stock reserves, frozen meat, through customs and outside customs protection measures. That's what we've been entitled to in the SAA, and we haven't done that in eight years. For eight years, all Eurofanatic authorities from DS to SNS are not protecting the domestic market, a domestic producer, letting an import lobby go wild, destroying the competition of domestic production. Where's the end? When's the end? When is the end of the subsidy of foreign companies that you support here? When is the end of the Croatianization of our market? When did the end of Todorovic who bought all the trade chains in Serbia and killed all the domestic stores? Excellent, bravo Vukicu – I am sick of Croatian experiences. You remembered well after five years of power. Why don't you tell Todorovic - I'm sick of Croatian experiences? I do not have enough Croatian experience in the case of Todorovic and Croatian tycoons ruling Serbia. Now, Mr. Minister, what are you erasing from the law in Article 3? One of the great formulations that existed here, which is the Ministry of Agriculture programme, you're erasing. Agricultural policy and rural development policy of the Republic of Serbia includes measures and activities undertaken by the competent authorities to: 1) strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural product on the market, 2) provide quality and health correct food, 3) provide support for the standard of living for farmers who cannot by their production provide economic survival on the market, the key thing, 4) provide support for rural development and 5) protect the environment from the negative impacts of agricultural production. You are erasing these five positions of Article 3 which are the programme of the serious national agriculture ministry, and what are you doing? You are bringing the state of Serbia into line with EU false promises that have lasted since 2012. For five years, you've been lying to Serbian citizens about getting EU funds. There's been no accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority for five years. For five years, there are no dinars from European funds, your empty stories about our path to Serbia, which is about to make Serbia happy. Why doesn't five years of money come from these European funds? We will see in how many years this procedure that you are now launching, which is nothing more than a new blackmail from the EU, will come. They're smart people, they protect their domestic producers. We don't protect our domestic producers. They will find 1,000 obstacles to accrediting the Agrarian Payments Administration and 1,000 obstacles to us taking to their market what is their competition, and we are letting everything into our market, without any control of food regularity, without any obstacles that protect our domestic producer. You're passing three laws that we're discussing here without a public debate, without the opinion of science, without the opinion of the profession. In three years you've changed this law three times. Clearly, you have no plan for Serbian agriculture and the village. In 2013, you reduced the resources to encourage agriculture below 5%, which you are obliged to allocate from the budget for this. In 2014, you reduced subsidies from 100 hectares to 20 hectares. In 2015 you reduced the subsidies for plant production from 12,000 to 4,000. Three times less subsidies than when the SNS is in power in this country. You really are the undertakers of Serbian agriculture. Import milk powder, import frozen meat from EU goods reserves, kill a domestic producer. Which IPARD funds? Who's poor and who can get anything in Serbian agriculture? For your IPARD funds – is it true that only entities with over five hectares of fruit can compete? Who's got that in the woods? In Croatia, the border is two hectares. Will the IPARD funds from the EU get only your tycoons friends? That's a serious question. Finally, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Waters that you take away the jurisdiction of Belgrade, and you give the province and increase bureaucracy and the cost of the province's harmful, double administration. Interestingly, you give the province of Vojvodina, and you delete from the law the watery area of KIM. You are opening a space for legalising illegal buildings built on waterland without a building permit, the type of home of President Nikolic's family on the Sava. What are you silent about? Shut up about the illegal exploitation of gravel. Shut up about destroying defensive misery that way. Shut up about the drinking water malfunction. Shut up about buying river streams from foreign companies. So, SNS is a gravedigger of Serbian agriculture and villages. It is not possible to get rid of gangrene and cancer, which has hit Serbian agriculture since 5 October 2000 when foreign goods are released, the domestic producer has been killed, all our agricultural industrial combinations are privatised, the competition of Serbian trade chains, Croatianisation and tycoonisation of our trade have been killed, and anyone who has foreign economic interest in this country is favoured in any other way. The time has come for economic patriotism to be heard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to hear that domestic economic interest is a priority, that support for domestic economy, agriculture is a priority. I don't care about your Central Committee in Brussels. I'm not interested in the EU. I'm interested in our domestic businessman and farmer. I'm interested in our domestic bank, which at favourable interest rates, will provide favourable loans exclusively to our domestic economy and farmer. It's economic patriotism for the 21st century. It's the programme of the Serbian Dvori Movement. I urge you to turn away from these false stories about European integration, from this waste of time, from this EU robbery of our economy and our agriculture. Help specifically young couples who want to return to the countryside and deal with agriculture. Give them the 27,000 euros you gave to foreign companies for each new job. Here's a new job for anyone who wants to go back to the country and do agriculture. Why don't you give us, Serbian citizens, not money from our budget from our earnings, but from foreign companies coming to Serbia. It's called the modern concept of economic patriotism. I call on you to finally start dealing seriously with the problem of agriculture and villages, because what you are doing is that final, grave work on the final destruction of Serbian agriculture from the village. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10040	Mr. Jesic, you have no basis for replication. (Goran Jesic, from the place: I am authorized to propose. It is. (Goran Jesic, from the place: The DS has been mentioned twice. () It is not the former regime that is mentioned in DS. (Goran Jesic, from the place: The DS has been mentioned twice. ) No moment has been mentioned in DS. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go. (Goran Ješić, from place: Article 104) I gave my word to the Minister. Mr. Jesic, you have no basis for replication. (Goran Jesic, from the place: DS is mentioned. No, DS, former regime, and you recognized. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go. (Goran Jesic, from the post: You cannot give the word to the Minister before the Rules of Procedure, he is a guest. I gave my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10041	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few things for the public I want to say, first of all, if anyone has protected small producers, I will remind you that 70% of the agricultural holdings have one or four cows in Serbia's space. If anyone had also protected their production, it was the Serbian government, a year and a half ago, when it introduced safeguard measures and prevented a huge amount of milk, at the truth low prices, it was an economy, when it prevented it from reaching Serbia's space and further devastated this type of agricultural production. I think it's facts. Serbia did not have the money as the EU, to invest a billion and a half euros in this project, but Serbia used its rights given by international agreements. Serbia will benefit from this right every time any part of its agricultural production is threatened, but when justified, interests exist on the market, not only because someone individually thinks that this interest is at stake. What is the essence of the whole story, legal obligations must be respected, no matter when they arise. It's the essence of the rule of law. I don't like a bunch of things in the SAA, but this country has signed and has to respect them, and also one of the tools that stands at our disposal throughout the European integration process is 175,000 euros through the IPARD project. I just want to know if everyone here is aware of how much money it is and how much money is in front of our farmers. Do I need him to give up? I don't think so. That's why we're implementing all these changes, regulations, and doing everything we can to get to that goal as soon as possible. In every place I will pray for any market if you can spare our production to be placed, because that's what patriotism is. Patriotism is a struggle to sell a product from Serbia for as high a price as possible if it is a surplus, when they meet, of course, the basic needs of the Serbian market. Also, to me, patriotism is what I've been talking about in the past 120 days, which is the development of the processing industry in Serbia's space. We've been devastated, the fact is, things have happened in the '90s since 2000 and back here. There has been a lot of things, but what it must do for the excess product to find a channel to go on is to develop the processing industry and all the tools available in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the Serbian government will use, especially the Ministry of Agriculture. One thing about agricultural land and farmland, I'll remind you of only one thing. Under this law, the amendment of the Agricultural and Rural Development Act provides for a specific tool to introduce so-called The LP of the parcel identification system. In 2016, by 120,000 hectares, we increased the coverage of state agricultural land that was leased and used. We'll keep working, it's the first time, we've got all the local self-government that's brought in annual grant programmes to rent agricultural land. As far as agricultural land is concerned, I must also say that we are preparing to amend the rules in this area to adapt on 1 September 2017, yes, we will protect our agricultural land in accordance with the international standards that exist. Of course we'll do it and it's the interest of this country. As far as genetically modified organisms are concerned, our Plant Protection Authority has been put up for permanent control and we have caught those who illegally sown the surfaces at 11 acres in the Srema and the Sword area, and proper reports have been raised and proceedings against these persons are being conducted. Zero tolerance for GMO production. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Who is to blame? ) We will publish all those who do so, of course, in accordance with the law that regulates the protection of the confidentiality of information. Of course we'll do it. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Who is to blame? Where's the inspection? The inspection did its part of the job. (Petar Jojic, from the scene: Who was responsible for the crime. I just said it all. As for other things, money exists in two different ways in which it can be placed in Serbian agriculture. One of the national measures is, therefore, from the Serbian budget, the other one can be placed, I hope in the second half of next year, from EU funds. As far as the PKK is concerned, that's all I'm ending up with, about 352,000,000 dinars, the PKK was a beneficiary of funds, incentives based on milk and quality breeding throats. There is absolutely nothing controversial and it is only proof that the Serbian government is taking care of this agricultural combination. The way this unsub's fate will be solved is in front of us. What we need to take care of and what has to be important is that he keeps production.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10042	I thank the ministers. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10043	Chairman, I don't know why you're making me look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't usually do that. She's mentioned twice DS and give me those 60 seconds to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10044	There's no mention of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10045	It is twice, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10046	Here you go. You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to show you that simple agriculture is the most exploited topic alongside Kosovo in the demagogue debates in this country. Are we here today to listen to demagogue things or are we in 1983 today and this is the Federal Assembly of the SFRY or are we in some other circumstances after the fall of the Berlin Wall that we didn't influence? The mention of DS and DOS ministers in the context of agriculture breaking up, I'm just going to remind you of an exact fact, that since 2007, you've only had excess agricultural products that you can export since 1991. It was only since 2007, when the DOS government took the land and gave it to agricultural producers. Not until then. Not to talk about the waters of Vojvodina and other things, I hope I get my word after this. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. Just a minute. Mr. Jesic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Mr Jesic, of course everyone has the right to speak, each of the 250 MPs, and no one can take it away from you, but you cannot speak when you want and when you want, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Goran Ciric, from the post: The mention is DS, twice. Check it out. ) The reference is to the former regime, not the DS, and for that reason, I felt that you had no basis for replication. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10047	Dear Chairman, I would not enter into this debate who is more guilty of the failure of Serbian agriculture, villages, from DS or SNS. So that is one big dilemma, and I hope that in the emerging period we will have time to determine how many agriculture ministers have changed in these 16 years, since 5 October 2000 and how much Serbian agriculture, Serbian food processing industry, Serbian agro-banks and everything that should be in the function of Serbian production. What I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, is that you discovered one genius thing, that a year and a half ago you realized that there are also elements of customs and non-tariff protection. Bravo! Indeed, it is a major discovery that after three years, the authorities find out that there are customs and extra-carinal forms of protection for domestic producers when they are threatened by unfair competition from abroad. A brilliant discovery. It took Alexander Vukic three years to remember the protection of our goods against the side of the goods that destroyed our domestic producers. Tell me, what have you done for these five years by the SNS authorities to rebuild agricultural and industrial combinations, to restore the agricultural machinery industry? Here, give me an example of where you restored the agricultural and industrial combination, where you restored the food-processing industry, where you restored some domestic Agrobank, where you did something to support the domestic economic interest. How many more years does it take for the SNS to rule to remember that there is a Serbian peasant and that it needs to be helped, not only "Tenis" and foreign companies coming to Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10048	Time, Mr. Beard. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Goran Jesic, from the place: How now Orlic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If there were any concerns, a direct basis – the mention of the party. That's it. Otherwise, as for the mention of some other parties, there may have been, but I heard a DOS mentioned. I heard that very well, and I completely understand what was mentioned. I totally understand, because, although many may be indirectly recognized, no one will be able to directly, and it is directly to the one who is persistently provoking and doing so today. I understand, for example, that someone here mentions SNS and mentions the term Eurofanatism, for a logical reason why nothing about Europe knows, nor would he be able to assess what fanaticism is, and what real politics is, nor would it be when anything says on the subject of Europe, and that makes any sense. Can't someone, ladies and gentlemen, who represents himself for some new Europe, imagine how funny that sounds, and in that case, he has no idea what they are, for example. The basic values of Europe, that they are nobleness and chivalry, and that neither nobility nor chivalry is a physical offense to women, that neither nobleness nor chivalry is a verbal insolence against women, that neither nobleness nor chivalry is an exorcising of co-workers to say what another person has no courage. That someone represents themselves for Europe. At least that's tragically funny. Why does that DOS guy mention it? For the simple reason that we often remind him that this particular new DOS belongs to himself, which doesn't come in any way right. But it is, ladies and gentlemen, not only the truth, it is only logical, because the Scriptures were mentioned – remember, man. If we're going to talk about some universal wisdom, was it perhaps the Book of Moses, Chapter III, that sentence – out of the dust you have become, you will return to dust. In this he can recognize both his destiny and his reality, because to translate, for the purposes of this discussion, into his language, or to adapt his age -- from DOS he became, to DOS he can only return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10050	Mr. Obradovic, I gave you a little bit of a moment to base the replica because I thought you'd further explain the questions you asked during the debate, and they're about the topic, but you didn't do it and you caused a replica when it comes to the SNS Parliament Club. Now you have no grounds for replication and we continue in order of the registered presidents of the parliamentary groups and the authorised representatives. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10051	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. You are obliged to ensure that this is done properly and to resist any pressures, because it is truly quite unusual, not to say funny, that you, after the intervention of SNS MPs and personal address and approach to you, always change your decision and in some way apologize for giving Bosko Obradovic a replica. I have to tell you, it's very nice to see it on the side. Once again, I will ask that my colleagues do not insult me personally, because if I speak, I address on behalf of the citizens who have chosen me in their own personal name, not to defend anyone. I thank you in future that you will respond to the arguments presented by the Dvora with adequate counter arguments or say – this is not true, this is not true, not that you are calling again on some women you have forced to declare that they have suffered violence and that they lie as they lie and other colleagues from the SNS when they declare that the Dvori are violent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10052	My colleague Janjušević, I did not notice that I made an apology, you misread it because I gave my word to Mr. Obradovic. It is my right to decide whether I will give Mr. Obradovic my word, but I said that I gave Mr. Obradovic my words by saying that he wanted to further explain the issues concerning the specific subject. Instead, he caused unnecessary and unnecessary replicas at the SNS Parliament Club, and I felt that he had no basis for replication in the follow-up session. I'm asking you now, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Maria Janjušević, from town: Yes. I thank you, Mrs Janjušević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10053	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly was injured, which you yourself later commented on, that a colleague had misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We're fighting for gender equality, man and woman, and in this fight we need to remember that we can't lose the most beautiful qualities that grace a woman, which is to be and remain a gentler sex, and so that men can be and remain gentlemen. Unfortunately, a colleague has long lost that quality in this struggle. Not only when he became an MP, but before. He lost the most beautiful feature of a man, to be and remain a gentleman and gentleman, the moment he injured his wife, our President Maja Gojkovic. But he didn't only hurt her, he hurt all the letters, 85 MPs, and he hurt all those women who voted for him, for whom he's here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10054	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10055	I don't know why you're so passive in this debate. It is an impression that the congregation has become a place where it is possible to pronounce without any consequence of anything that is impossible anywhere else. Well, imagine if the arguments we hear in this discussion become arguments that need to regulate, say, the everyday life and business of the people of the economy you're dealing with. You need to answer some questions that life has already answered, to repeat those answers. To repeat the fate of the idea that a colhos can develop in Serbia in the 21st century, which is the real name for the combineds. To repeat how every ambition will end for the state to make its banking. To tell the truth about what happened in this society, without any ambition to stick to each other's labels now, it's pointless. Time is a factor. If we haven't cleared up with Milosevic's 1990s then when that made sense after October 5th, and we haven't, today it's completely pointless to go over everything that has become undeniable in the meantime. Well, you said yourself what the average household looks like when you talk, say, about livestock. From one cow to four cows. Well, are we going to meet the needs of our society with such agriculture, and instead of ourselves, we have Campina or Nestel? Why don't you tell the truth, what's come... (The People's Messenger throws out of place. I'm going to tell you about Fidelini, and I'm going to teach you something, because I'm working and I'm living, and I don't live to talk. So why don't you say why there was an increase in milk production in the EU? Because after 45 years, the European Commission has abolished the milk production penalization through the quotas, because we are here in favour of the command economy. Shall we bring the commissioners in here? Will it be a natural purchase of grain and everything else? This is the 21st century. When we talk about agrarian, we are talking, unfortunately, about a social problem that destroys this society and the people that are part of it. It's not business. In America it is. You know what they call them there? Red necks. Because they're always in the sun. That's why they invented both joysticks and laser guidance and air conditioning and music in a tractor and possession of a hundred acres to make it all make sense, because it has to be economically sustainable. What is the average possession in Serbia, I'm not talking about Vojvodina, I'm talking about Serbia? Three, four acres, below three, now depends. Well, how can economics survive? He can't. You want to handle it yourself? Well, you won't. Is there something we need to arrange for this assembly? Let's at least not prove to the peasant that matter is indestructible. Forty percent of our population lives in the country. What kind of life is that? How's the country education? What's health care like in the country? What is cultural life like in the country, the one who has the idea that people are going back to the country? What's waiting for him in that village? I guess there's some seriousness. We came here to solve problems. Is there a country that has a developed agrarian without subsidies? We have examples of countries that get the most out of that support and those that don't really work. So, what does our subsidy policy look like? I remember an election campaign, it wasn't so soon, when the subsidy policy was such that household support was supported, not the producer, because they don't vote cows. One who has a hundred cows and one who has one will get the same household subsidy, because that's how two votes or 20 are bought, as long as they already live there. We have to change that. It's exactly what one of the predecessors said when he mentioned this very confusing policy that's being led into the agrarian. It's not just a trait of the Wolf's Government, but it's very bad that it's so wandering. Four ministers in five years. You want me to tell you how it was before that? He was Vesenov for two years, then Stojan Jeftic was then Ivana Dulic, then her deputy Zivko, and then Sloba Milosavljevic came and after Sloba Milosavljevic Dusan Petrovic was Dragin. Now imagine a man who lives in a field who works and who needs to realize that there is a plan, that there is a plan and that this country knows what it wants with agrarian. You were told by an MP from the DS – so in 2007, we first reached a surplus in our agrarian. Until then, the belt was tightened. Why is that? Maybe it's because there hasn't been a commission in 50 years. You have today, and these are fundamental problems and we have to solve it, it is not true that Tenis only wants to come to Serbia. It's a multinational company practically. It is a private owner, but the characteristics of this company are global. Because every national market, in agrarian terms, is saturated, closed, and our agrarian escapes, cannot be satisfied here, and Fidelinka goes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to Montenegro, and Albania, and Macedonia, and sees how to get to Scandinavia and compete with the American flour sold there. We can't survive if we turn on ourselves. It's in our interest to come here "Tenis". Of course we need to control everything, but it's in the interest that people who have knowledge come here and have the potential to raise their performances, raise the performances of the entire industry. Tell me a serious company in Serbia, not an agrarian, but a company, and for agrarian it is particularly important, which can monitor what is happening in the world without foreign consultants. How can we develop our own fruit growing, that, say, we want to feed Russia with our own fruit? How can we be effective if we don't follow and we don't know what's going on in the world at all times? We'll be eaten by competition. Every serious exporter here is already doing it. We are now participating in a parliamentary debate, which is everything, just not something that needs to be serious. You have a duty to put an end to it. What state agrarian bank? Well, we don't have a problem with that. We have a problem with the fact that our banks are full of money, full, that they pay negative interest for that money without being ready to invest it in business. For what? They're terribly conservative and they remember and they don't want any risk of taking over. Why can they act like that? Because the economy is also the state of competition. I mentioned to you the other day as those autumn sowings flowed. I'll tell you, in three days, you jump into the wheat market, with 15 dinars going to 18.5. To change the price list in the chain, it takes you a month. It is not a Croatian chain, meaning neither "Merkator", nor "Idea", nor "Roda", it is not Todorovic hir. Well, it was in our interest that they would come here and we'd get the competition, as it is in our interest to have everyone else come and they deserve our trust. After all, if this criterion is introduced similar, well, behind Todorovic is Sberbank, as far as I know. They gave 600m euros for the investment he needed to continue to develop his business. Well, why is Todorovic good to the Russians, and he's not good to us here in Serbia, and Russia is always suggesting to us as salvation and a way out of the situation we're in? Well, give us something to learn from that world. Well, Putin sold 20% of Rosnjeft to the Catharics and the Americans four or five days ago, 19.96%, and before that as much as British Petroleum. So he sold 40% of the strongest national companies to foreigners, and here foreign capital is the problem. Then let's move on. You know that very well. Tell me, whose possessions are the greatest offerings? Whose land is best and most efficient? Where is the continuity in production? Are these the ones we call tycoons here, or are they people who try to survive by bidding the country year after year? If we want to be competitive, if we want to feed this country, so it's not customs descent or, say, extra-tariff protection policy and your overtures, that's how we protected ourselves in 2003, and Zivkovic was prime minister, when we were asked to return to the quota policy in the sugar industry, when the whole country liquidated us because of that imaginary "sugar affair", which was actually the result of the fact that the performance in our sugar industry rose by three years from 60,000 tonnes to over 200 and went further to develop in the meantime. That was a problem for the French and the Dutch. But then there was no patriotism to which there had to be room at that moment, so say, we protect our economy. No, we're all being criminalized for thinking about the country's interest and not letting us go back to quota policy. Tell me, now that you look at that map of Serbia, how do you think you're developing an agrarian without a membership, without a pool of possessions? It says on paper that someone's processing 500 acres. How many plots? At 30, 40, it depends. How can you organize a irrigation system? How can he be effective in his business? What's a terrible problem for a farmer today, I'm not talking about a company? There's no certainty in the business he's in. Every year he has to bid for the country. Let's agree to say -- people, okay, for ten years you're renting land. Well, then someone's going to invest in agricultural machinery. We did not fail because we did not appreciate the IMT or the Dragon, but because the needs of the markets that the industry had been on for 50 years. They became minimal and were not adequate for the job to be sustainable. I'm sorry, they took some of the others -- "John Dir", "class", not to mention "Belarus", but we can count on the fingers of one hand how many new mechanisms have been sold at the Novi Sad Fair. So something's changing, something happened in the meantime. The performances of our agrarian will not grow as they did in the past. On the contrary, it's going down now, something that's very important, it's a processing industry. I can tell you, I'm in it every day. Without a serious plan, it was the result of one planning economy, a party decision was made and then it was made, concentrated in one room 60,000 tons of storage space, then a mill, then a sawmill, then a baker, then a scrotum, and that's how it works. So it's in Subotica, so it's in Kikinda, so it's in Topoli, so it's in Pancheva. So that was politics, that was the state behind it. In the meantime, that system has been overcome, it has failed. That's why we inherited the PKK in 2000, with a hundred million marks of debt. How did we solve that? The state has converted the claim into property. And? And then she continued to spend in an inert system. Then the mayor of Belgrade appeared with the idea that he, that Belgrade would take its own PKK, and then Belgrade would do what the state did not know. How does that end? Well, it's a disaster. It can't work anymore. It used to be. It used to be effective. The American presidents used to come here, so they take them to visit the PKK and come to the PKK, wait for the director and say, well, here you can go to kindergarten, go to school, you can work, here you can die. You have everything in the framework of this PKK of ours. The Americans filmed "Servo Mihal" from Zrenjanin. Twenty-five percent of the former Yugoslavia's food produced the combination, but that's the end. They haven't transformed. Then we told some other stories. The Serbs, but at least there wasn't any experience we have now. That's why you have to get in the way of the ome. The worst is demagogy and populism. Agrar doesn't take it. You know that very well. So we fell apart, and look at your Mitrovica from which you came, and then "Mitrosrem", then up to Srem Shid, and it all went to hell in ten years. Because every word has irreparable damage and it's driving people out of here. We need "Tenis" and we need others. Where are we gonna find the capital? Here, we are now reading that some banks have signed commercial contracts, the state is an intermediary, so it will help small and medium-sized enterprises with interest 7.5%. Wait, 7.5% when zero interest is in the EU. Well, how can you be competitive with that? Well, what's the profit to generate the power to get that money back? Well, that's unsustainable. Oh, why is that? Political risk. We don't need to contribute, we need to solve it. If we talk about agrarian, of course we should use EU support. I don't deny the possibility of others helping us. Oh, does it help? Because there's a business experience here, let's say in the agrarian cooperation with the Russian Federation, since it's mentioned here as a life-saving belt. I have nothing against them. Because someone has that experience? Do you know of any business man who deals with agrarian production who agrees to work with a partner of the Russian Federation, without a bank guarantee to be placed on the table. How are our dairy producers doing? The Russians take Brazil's "feta" if the price is more competitive than ours and that's what's going on. Our apples return unless they meet some standards. It's consistent with their interests. We have to define our own. Our interest is, absolutely, the transformation of agrarians and the resolution of these social problems. We can't have an efficient agrarian if his performance is the one you mentioned. The need to protect the milk producer is discussed. Absolutely, yes, that's what it takes, but it has to be said immediately how long it will take. Define procedures that will allow people to transform otherwise there's no point in protecting individual producers that have one, two, three or four cows forever, because that's how you endanger all those who are users of these services. Because for the population, it's an important price for them to get some milk, and I don't think the problem for our people is the fact that some milk product is made from the density that comes from the EU. If it's not a problem for the Greeks, it would be a problem for us here, if the price is good. I don't think you were protecting them with that measure, not just milk producers, but processors, which is also important. We have a very developed industry, and we need to take care of it. There were large investments two years ago, 400, 500m euros were given among other things and for a sector directly affected by your measures, and these subsidies helped these people. Now, of course, that protection needs to be put away because the price of milk has dropped and the price of milk has been raised. It doesn't suit anyone if this status quo is forever and ever. I don't know why you're keeping it quiet. There is no SNS and LDP village, there is no such thing, there is only a social bomb and in every campaign when we go, and I'm not telling you now about mountain-mounted areas, and we can talk about it, but in this campaign we're going through Mitrovica now, so we're going to Shid, so we stop in the village, grandma opens the door, 75 years old, there's no pension. What's going on with the pension fund in agriculture? How does it work? How much pension is he paying? What's going on with the category of registered agricultural land? So you have to register, pay taxes, and then you count on a subsidy. Then the state can't give you that subsidy because there's no money. As far as I know, every government likes to share money, no one likes to cut. And with that we need to clear up, so let's get some normal message out of here, that we've agreed on that elemental order. Defend the country's European orientation. It can't depend on a chocolate bar or on someone's whim. Always neighbouring neighbours in the business rubs their noses and Croats go warm rabbit, Slovenia does to them what they do to us today. But that's peripheral to the damage that we'll expose ourselves to if we question that orientation. It has something to do with your work. We need to think about what happens next year when banks start solving NPLs, and a large number of these NPLs are tied to agrarian, large and significant. What's going to happen to that now? What's going to happen to our conditioning industry? It's not an agrarian at first, but it's very important and it's connected. I can list you hundreds of thousands of tons of silos currently in some NPL of Serbian banking, pawned, failed, unable to run, standing there empty. There were a lot of projects, the state helped that project, those underground warehouses, gave some temporary measure to bring something back, but all of it was armed. Strategy and don't shut up. I don't think we're in any trouble when we have to explain it, but we need to get a clear message out of here. We are aware of the circumstances in which our country is located. It is a very difficult position for the Serbian agrarian, and in the perspective it is unsustainable on these grounds. We need to round up the property. We need to start operating in accordance with the principles of the market economy to be competitive, to do what those who are our competitors did. To open ourselves to the world, to use all the knowledge we need, but not to destroy what exists here, but to enable it to stand on its own feet. No one comes here for anything but profit, and there's some benefit in that profit for Serbia, and it needs to be protected. If there goes the message we're listening to, full of pulsism, demagogy, exclusiveness, that stupid nationalism, people will turn the other way. What every day runs the race that we run, where we run at 30 years behind, and we whisper to each other. As far as these proposed laws are concerned, of course, that we will support the idea of using EU pre-accession funds and we will be ruthless in controlling all this. Not in terms of some abuses, but in meeting those necessary preconditions because it is so for everyone, and all of this is a matter of politics, and we should fight over it and how to affirm cooperatives and how to protect clusters, raise the agrarian sector and, of course, how to stand in the way of the nonsense that is filled with our daily life and political irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10056	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10057	Dear President, honourable MPs, I would like to thank you Mr Jovanovic for the constructive debate and for supporting our way into the fight and for the way in which our agricultural producers and processors come to the source of EU funding. I'll just, uh, initiate your speech to say a few things. If Europe is also known for what it is, it is a common European agrarian policy. So the opposing Europe 30, 40 years ago has found ways to find common ground around this topic. I think agriculture is just one of the things in Serbia that needs to be reached on a point of agreement for one simple reason. We're all aware that it's a difficult situation, and the way we can move on, surely it's not populist measures for one simple reason, nor do we have enough money to withstand populism, nor does our competition have time to wait for us. No one's waiting for us. It's a market that defines the rules of the game. I would just like to present in such a way that the markets, the Serbian market, the CEFTE markets, the markets of Europe, other markets depend on how we channel funding in the coming years, for one simple reason. If on the market they say all mid-term research is good to produce certain sacks of fruit, certain kinds of vegetables, beef, fish, well, of course we as a state need to find ways to support such and production, as well as processing. I heard a few weeks ago that I missed the theme as Minister of Agriculture. Maybe it's possible, very likely. Everyone who works has to make mistakes. And the topic was about the processing industry -- should the Minister of Agriculture deal with these topics as well? Should the Ministry of Agriculture deal with these issues? Well, of course he has to deal with it. One of the channels where the agricultural product is placed is the processing industry, and I absolutely agree that we need to generate all those who want to invest in this sector, whether they are originating in Serbia or on the side, primarily because of the standards that are being introduced. I was just talking to you here about standards that we as a state have to meet in terms of phytosanitary protection in order to export our fruits to certain areas, and these are the rules of the game. Maybe somebody doesn't like them, maybe somebody likes them, but they're game rules. One more thing I want to say in the end, as far as it goes, Mr Jovanovic wasn't there when I was talking about this thing, and it's about pensions in the area of agriculture. It's such a tough subject. I just say one more time, I can't believe that whoever found out that the same pension was paid for both a hectare and 100 acres that it could be the same. I can't accept it as some fact that in logically some part of normal thinking possible. We must finally achieve unity over how we treat these people. We thought they made a solution 10 years ago. Well, here's what we've produced. Thank you to all these debates that are going in the right direction, to recognise agriculture as an important segment, and we will have many more difficult discussions in this House, especially with regard to these things, when we have to transform and produce tools to adapt to the market in order to have a chance to survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10058	Mr Jovanovic, it is mentioned twice in the context of gratitude when it comes to constructive debate. Here, you'll get an extra two minutes. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10059	Mr. Minister, again, I suggest you read the book "Why the Peoples Fail," Klio published, it is now out, at the Book Fair you could have taken it. The key issue for the survival of every nation is the issue of economic freedom, and the issue of economic freedom determines, determines the political system, not our wishes. That depends on you in the agrarian area. So it's up to you first whether you're going to start talking at the cost of paying by your ratings. We had a corn processing industry in Zrenjanin, which made 110 corn derivatives, IPOK... The largest corn processing company in America at the end of the '70s came here to see what was done. We don't have any squires today. We're exporting primary products. That's what you need to focus on, to ask those questions. Keyly, economic freedom, private initiative, entrepreneurship, not Colhosi, to say – the combination has failed because time has passed and it can no longer return. What's it gonna cost, as much as someone's willing to pay. That's what you're expected to do. And, of course, black hole is a matter of pensions at every turn, especially farmers. It's a disaster, and we need to see how we're going to solve it, because that pension fund can't be charged by transferring money from the budget, but I guess we need to lift the performance of that branch of the economy, and we're not going to raise it because the way we weren't able to do it in the meantime. Someone on the side is needed, some "Tenis", by clear rules, with respect for what is here an authentic interest and an agrarian producer and consumer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10060	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10061	Dear Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, I am pleased that today we have had a truly quality debate and, above all, I think thanks to the very minister who was at first very specific, clear and decadent. I'm sorry that we've come to this moment by entering a population and demagogy, and this moment has been overcome in serious nations, peoples and states of conflict between etatism or coordinated, conducting development and in the economy and agriculture and the free market. These topics have been completed for all serious societies, except for societies where the public wants to lead the main topic. There are still some countries in South Africa and South America, where ethicists and populists impose their views. And history has shown that a targeted economy is nothing more than a serious theft of citizens and abuse of their work. We seem to be moving a lot away from our topic today, and these are really affirmative and good laws that are before us today, that go to our farmers and, above all, to the cattlemen. There have been attempts at previous speeches to degrade the increase we have in the budget and the payments we have had in agriculture in the last two, three years, the increase is significant for all those who deal with it. And, 43.8 billion dinars is big money for a country like Serbia, and an increase of 3.3 billion is really important, as it will be directly used for donations to people dealing with these specific things, and it is a matter of increasing the livestock fund in the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any place like that. So far, there have been incentives. Some have been objecting to the previous two years to some other ministers, but please, in the past two years, we have put the whole society in the direction of saving to get out of here today, to be able to raise our agricultural budget and give these subsidies that are truly of great importance to all those who are involved in the extraction of the livestock fund in the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to ask if you can allow me to debate in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10062	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10063	I think it's the turn of the citizens of Serbia to listen to each other. I don't think this makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10064	Here you go, buddy. I, of course, want to point out that one of the key problems that has been hit by our farmers for decades has been outdated machinery and equipment in production. Agricultural machines are now over 20 years old in Serbia today, and I believe they are older than some young people who today want to start their own agricultural holdings. And what we do today with these changes, i.e. incentives in agriculture, is that we allow it to restore its mechanism as much as 40% to 50% we allow and we give the possibility that they are refunding from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and thus it is the best incentive for their recovery, i.e. to heal our entire agriculture. This but also many other problems in agriculture that the state plans to solve are contained in the Strategy which I have been reading these days and I think it is a really good framework document that provides solutions, the 2014-2024 Strategy, and it defines the objectives and priorities in which we should reform our agriculture. One of the most prominent issues of future development in agriculture is the unfavourable age structure and the educational structure of our workforce. I think that's what the Ministry should be working on and it's really a serious problem. I have a question here for the Minister of Agriculture. You recently stated that the Ministry wants to create a favourable climate for agricultural development in our republic and that our producers can count on IPARD funds as early as next in 2017. I wonder how farmers will be able to get acquainted with project competitions, because you'll agree to those parts where I come from and there aren't a lot of Internets and don't have people having a direct relationship and can't send out the Ministry of Agriculture website, so do you plan on giving these people any other opportunity to get informed in the right way? Croatia has been mentioned much here today, and we can really learn a lot from the bad example of Croatia. It is a bad example when Croatia is taken here as an example of progress in agriculture and the use of European funds. Because they were unprepared, in the first two years, it happened that Croatian farmers failed to withdraw funds from these funds and other money they could not use. We, today with this law, are trying to supply our farmers, as you say, with tools, that this is not happening. European integration, as we've heard and it's a big deal, is probably the most important thing for agrarian. It is the European agrarian policy most recognizable, and it speaks enough data and is enough motivation, the data that the Republic of Croatia has since 2014. Until 2020. Years from the EU, it predicted it would withdraw 2.4 billion euros for agriculture. I think the choice here is easy. Lighting up the populist stories of our producers, as some in this Assembly do and on the other hand give them a chance to run and develop their own land, to put them on healthy feet, the choice here is very clear. There's no better motivational factor than direct financial assistance. Two billion and 400m euros in seven, eight years will get an EU member, so it is indeed a real motivation and a clear choice. I have to turn around a little bit, and the end that I come from, I'm from New Pazar, near the cave high. This will do a lot of good for people who do cattle on the Cave, it's God-given zone for the highest-quality cattle farming industry, and I don't think these funds are gonna be small for our producers. In this sense, I want to say that the local self-governments of Novi Pazar, Sjenica and Tutin have really worked very hard on raising the livestock fund. I must commend the work of the Office for Agricultural Advisory Services in Novi Pazar, which does a lot of work on education, on education, but also through concrete projects really helps our farmers. With foreign donations, above all, the Republic of Turkey, we have managed to share very many seedlings of raspberries, with the help of Turkey's development agency "TIKE" bee hives, with the help of our country we shared the rock of heifers, and it seems to me that we have been very helpful. So I'm really glad that our law and our steps will strengthen these people. I don't want to be pessimistic, like the tones I've been hearing here all day. A lot of people have returned to the cave and to Sandzak. Young people want to deal with cattle, we have individual holdings that have between 300 and 500 sheep. It seems to me we're going in one direction to stop the detachment of these parts. And this is one step forward and this is the real thing this government is doing for its citizens. In turn, the development of the Regional Centre for the Development of Agriculture is in Sjenica, you are informed. With the help of the Czech Development Agency and with the help of the Republic of Serbia, the facility is completed. We have a modern lab and it seems a lot. I think this way regional organisations can contribute a lot to the process of writing projects, because the main problem in withdrawing these funds. We will now legally solve the problems we have. It's going to be writing projects, and I think the ministry can make full use of these regional centres for education, education, installing personnel to help people write projects. It's a really demanding and difficult job. Unfortunately for my end, although it's not empty today, there are a lot of people who show desire, this area has a terriblely poor infrastructure and there's a big problem with high-quality food transport. There's a big problem with electricity weakness, so it can't be stored, it can't be stored, it can't be kept quality food. The problem with the Cave is to plug in a simple muse, there's not enough power for it to work, to cool off the milk. So I think there must be a lot to be done on infrastructure, not just in this part of Serbia, and in the part of southern Serbia that you mentioned several times, in the region of Srliga and other parts that really have great potential. I'm glad I can commend the veterinary service in my area that has raised its level of service. They work much more, not only in the sense of taking care of health and not spreading infections among healthy cattle, but also doing a lot in tracking slaughterhouses. Many more people report their actions because they see that the services of veterinary services benefit them and are good for them. Of course, we have also mentioned a number of problems that farmers have, unresolved social status, employees in agriculture who seem less interesting in this profession. Also, it is estimated that each fifth farmer is insured and that they are mainly owners. Seasonal workers are a special story and this must be solved by quality legal solutions. I look forward to a statement by the minister that has already been made several times today, and rather points out that support for processing facilities in the meat, milk, fruit sector is planned to make this sector concrete. The definition of this country to help and strengthen its agriculture as the most stable part of its economy is obvious, and the laws that are before us today are the best step, a safe step and a big step in that direction. We show as a power to care for ordinary workers, to take care of the peasant, to try as a poor state to help him in every way, with direct financial resources, and I think that's the maximum that this government can do for its citizens in this situation. Therefore, as Social Democrats, we too will support workers' rights, we will also support the rights of private entrepreneurs and, of course, the country's commitment to an open economy, European integration and the availability of European, very often and non-refundable couples that we will directly implement towards our people and producers. Thank you. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10066	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers, fellow citizens, we have received three important proposals on amendments and additions to the Law, two of which are important for agricultural production in the coming years, and the law that is most important for farmers is this one on incentives in agriculture and rural development. When we talk about proposed laws, we are actually talking about the state of our village and agriculture as the activity of which this village primarily lives. One of my respected predecessors made an argument that the participation of agriculture in exports is increasing due to re-exports. I don't know if that's true or not, but based on data from the Green Paper of the Ministry of Agriculture, it's evident that agricultural participation is falling in employment and GDP, and it's growing by export. Perhaps one of the better indicators of the state of Serbian agriculture comes from the field of education. If Serbian agriculture and rural development were all right, one of the most desirable for enrollment and the most difficult for completion would be, say, the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad. It would be one of the most desirable profiles, followed by agri-economy, a machine, for example, a college of agricultural machinery. Unfortunately, young people are looking for those educational profiles that best go along with a passport or make them competitive on the foreign labour market, and the standard fate of the country is that parents sell to their children to live in one-room or two-bedroom apartments, loaded with loans or rents, doing low-paid jobs in cities. When I talk about the proposed laws, of course, we are also talking about European integration and whether these European integrations contribute to the development of agriculture and rural environments as a whole, because the backbone of the proposed laws is the use of pre-accession IPARD funds. It is useful to hear that in its latest November 2016 report, the EU assesses Serbia's state of progress in agriculture and rural areas. It is useful to hear how to truly, or to try to be true, explain how well we are doing and what the EU accession process really means for their life and their everyday life, so that they can properly conclude whether it is good or bad for us. With regard to adapting Serbia to a common European agricultural policy, we have been suggested that we should further develop a strong management and control system in the area of preserving the quality of our agricultural products and organic production. Today, at the end of 2016, we still have the assessment that we need to urgently address the issues we are lagging behind, part of these issues are also solutions in the laws that are proposed, that organic production covers only 0.4% of agricultural land, that we have to work to regulate animal origin and health, food safety, phytosanitary and veterinary policy and the like. Actually, we don't have to do any of this. We can stay on our own, in the state in which we are, and this situation is great seen in the video available on the Internet for days where the workers in the meat store, one of our biggest butchers, the transition winner, with butchers all over Serbia, meat stores, brooms under the fridge, screw and kill rats, and then throw them out of the store with that same broom, having great fun. In the European Commission's report, on the other hand, we are told that we need to apply more strictly the prescribed food hygiene. One of the key concerns in the European Commission's report, a five-fold increase in the allowed level of aflatoxin in milk. It's kind of a theme that was forgotten in today's debate, which is why, in their words, we came out of the European framework. So they went back in terms of approaching European standards. What else is required of us? Let's try to answer the eternal question, is that good for us or isn't it? To lay down rules on restricting the use of pesticides, to work on the Human Resources of the Veterinary Administration, whose staff is extremely insufficient and prior to retirement, to legally comply in the area of genetically modified food, which is, of course, a topic that triggers a lot of controversy, which needs to be discussed openly and professionally, because this is a prerequisite for Serbia's entry into the WTO, according to the European Commission report, to solve the catastray problem, to sort out the records, to establish order. Among other things, the European Commission has resented the process of passing laws. We are told that the public debate in this process, in this area, is for improvement. So she has to be promoted. Part of the public debate and this assembly debate, for it now according to the standard practice of emergency procedure, with only two, three days of preparation, we have the laws, so it can be concluded that the aim is to minimise the debate, or it can be established that the aim is to reduce the debate, that maybe the government would not lose some political points. I don't know what else could be. So, let's say, at that rate, we miss the opportunity to do some fine adjustments, it remains a short period of time for amendments, let's say, to try to look at the possibilities in legal solutions, let's say, the incentive of organic beekeeping for which in these two, three days we have quite solid arguments that in Serbia we only have four beekeepers certified for organic production, that the demand for this type of product exists and that we have 30,000 beekeepers and 79,000 hives. That would be an interesting thing to encourage, but of course there wasn't enough time for such a thing. We are suggested that after two years of delay, we form state institutions whose existence is necessary to make the EU available to us 175m euros from IPARD funds for the 2014-2020 budget period. I ask the citizens and fellow MPs to pay attention to the funds allocated from the EU budget for the period started in 2014. We are now at the end of 2016. Citizens have the right to receive at least some basic information on how much it is worth and in what steps the process of European integration in the area of agricultural production is implemented. They have the right to know whether we are in this process, in some ways and in some ways, in late or not. If we are, why are we and whose fault we are? There must be a principle of political responsibility. I respect the minister's arguments that his mandate does not last long enough to bear responsibility for all earlier delays and we respect the intention to iron out the consequences of earlier delays, but simply about political responsibility for all earlier delays must be discussed and someone must submit it. Serbia's preparations for the use of the EU's IPARD funds were launched in 2009. The creation of the IPARD programme itself for Serbia was launched in early 2014, and ended on 9 December 2014 by sending the programme to the European Commission for accreditation. Citizens need to know that it is we who are proposing measures and we propose which programmes we want the money to be invested in from these European pre-accession funds, and this is done to hand over the IPARD programme to the Agriculture Directorate. Citizens should also know that these programmes are being accredited by the European Commission, because it is their money. Whose money, his spending rules. If we don't like it, we don't have to take it, but if we can do it without that money, it's a question. We're not sure we can. The programme was accredited on 20 January 2015, and already during 2016, according to the earlier plan of our administration, which worked on a professional part of the job, the first funds were to be used. Of course, the first users were expected to be more advanced agricultural holdings with a strong agri-technical base and several years of business plans that are a prerequisite and must be made in accordance with the form prescribed by the European Commission and its Agriculture Directorate. Even registration forms were made with Brussels and verified in 2015, early 2016, except for information from the media dealing with agriculture, and part of the information from the public hearing of December 2014. When all this was done, then we entered the election cycle. If everything had been done right, the IPARD would have been merely an overture for a common agricultural policy and programmes with which Serbian agriculture, according to EU examples, would have profited. All the countries that were candidates were only getting funds from pre-accession funds. By joining the membership, they had to contribute, but also received their quota in the common agricultural budget, over two funds and on average managed to withdraw eight times more funds. Slovenia has even 14.7 times more resources. Poland has managed to withdraw two billion in full. Where are we? We are now half of the European budget period with 0% of the use of the money that belonged to us from that budget. The Agrarian Payments Administration, reportedly in a modern business building, was designed to receive hundreds of employees, was established in Sapac in time. According to information from the profession, everything was 90% ready and the accreditation plan was in line with the European Commission and their audit committee gave positive estimates on three occasions in 2009, 2010 and 2011, even getting reports that we are the most advanced in the region, and then in 2012, due to alleged problems in finding quality personnel in Sapac, the Agrarian Payments Authority has decided to move to Belgrade and since then practically the whole process has been stopped. Since then, the administration has changed five similar directors. Finally, an innovative accreditation plan was submitted to the European Commission and rejected on 8 August 2016. Why did the prime minister say on August 11th that we were accredited to the IPARD? Why did the administration have to move out of Capco when everything was supposed to be ready for her work? The argument is that the building does not allow 125 workers to be admitted, but only 100 workers I assume are not insurmountable. The argument that there are no more than 1,000 workers, IT experts, construction engineers, architects, lawyers and economists in the region are arguments that do not stand, as this is a staff plan for a later phase when the administration should have 15 branches throughout Serbia. There's the impression that politics has surpassed the profession and public interest here. So, should the Administration go back to Sabac, obviously it's now a strategy that won't be the one. So, management will be in Belgrade. Why was she even in Capco, why not Mladenov? Why is Belgrade closer to the farmers, not Shabac, Mladenovac or Novi Sad? These are some things that should be explained. If it had been promised, our farmers would have actually received 350m euros from the previous EU budget cycle, but that train had passed, we had entered a new budget cycle, and now even these 175m euros were recently at stake, and farmers were actually to be involved in the IPARD competition for future more serious structural funds from which Serbian agriculture would receive multiple aid. If everything were right, the IPARD as a pre-accession financial instrument would actually be advocating for a common agricultural policy and programmes, with which, if judged by the experience of EU member states, Serbian agriculture would gain much. One must bear political responsibility and that responsibility must be proportionate to the benefit of Serbian agriculture because of all these delays. Here's a few examples. Croatia, while having candidate status, received 25m euros annually from IPARD funds, and that was once called SAPARD. The same amount was won in Slovakia, and Hungarians about 53 million, Romanians 193 million, Poles 236 million. I'm saying, these are data from the media dealing with agriculture, and freely, ministers, if I missed the numbers, correct me, but I think these figures are also very speaking, they may not be precise enough, but they serve purposes. Therefore, IPARD funds serve as a preparation and a sort of purgatory for farmers to use a vast future European common agricultural budget. If we keep in mind that IPARD funds are co-financed, if we know how much we have lost so far without participating them, so we look at how much investment we have lost, so we add how much of the part that would be financed from its own sources, we may be able to figure out that Serbian agriculture has lost even over six million euros of investment with which today would probably look very different and therefore, instead of being the biggest winners of Euro Integration, Serbian couples are threatening to become its biggest losers. It may be useful to look at all the problems other countries have faced during the use of these pre-accession funds, all of which they have been facing by trying to accredit their projects and obtain funds. The lack of capacity in institutions has been shown to be a major obstacle to the implementation of this process. We can generally say that all our institutions represent a brake for carrying out anything innovative. High standards on environmental, food safety, plant and animal health are difficult to reach users of potential means, and the condition is that the funds are obtained. Unsolved ownership issues, we have a question of restitution, conversion of the right to use in the right of ownership and all other different privatization tails. The lack of definition of urban conditions, problems of issuing building permits, high degree of corruption, poor infrastructure and the fact that the cycle of approval of IPARD funds does not fit the production cycles of agriculture. If you don't realize that we're promoting any Euroscepticism, this is just a list of problems that we have to deal with in a timely manner, because that's what we're expected to do in April to actually succeed in withdrawing funds for someone's first programme, or that we really have one user who will withdraw funds in April, as suggested it will be and we hope it will be. To give effect to the proposed laws, in order for IPARD to succeed, in order to benefit from this, as well as from any other process in joining the EU and generally from any other social change, the rule of law is needed first and foremost. Now, how does the government implement a policy of agriculture and rural development? What has not been solved, and should, in order for the incentive measures to come to fertile soil, and not in some sector contaminated by illegalities? The problem with land usurping? You can deal with him. A positive example is, for example, what was done in the municipality of Irig this summer, when local self-government, despite the unhappiness that was made in the fields by usurpers, made a harvest of 140 acres of sunflower and wheat. On the other hand, however, the government met with usurperers when it passed a regulation that allowed them to be settled out of court. The result is that the country in Pančev's extrajudicial settlement was leased at prices far below the market prices and the usurpers were practically rewarded. The result of this kind of policy to solve the problem of land usurpation is, for example, an example, an example of the ruling party's trustee in Somboro, who felt free to suggest how to usurp the country, so TV recorded it. In the cafe, he advised the couples to freely usurp the land and call for him in front of the farmer. The principle by which this country becomes a mother to those who wrongly and forcefully exercise their interests, and to ordinary citizens is a stepmother. Interesting was his excuse, he said he suggested usurping with his own protection because, apparently, these pairs could not agree on a regular procedure. The message is there's no rule of law. Then how are we going to enforce the proposed laws? Who's going to like water-based land, for example? A law on agricultural land and a provision allowing for a decades-long lease of one third of the state through non-transparent direct contracts, the government damaged thousands and thousands of couples and their families who handled the country. And without these legal changes for the best state country, there was a jag of renting arenas that local self-governments had reached at auctions and without this, they were costing the warlords profits. Only the big ones could work the country with such state margins. The math in soy production, for example, is that if you don't process your country and you don't have your own machinery, you get a net rate when you pay the arena and when you pay the service processing, you get a net profit at only 100 – 110 euros per morning, even when you have a contribution of over two tonnes per morning, which is a good contribution per year. Now, agricultural holdings, besides domestic tycoons, have been given a variety of Al-Dahre, Al-Ravaphede and Tennessee for competitors. It is no secret that farmers, or already adopted amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, actually refer to the "Tenis Act". When we discussed the budget, I will remind you that we have constantly mentioned 70 billion dinars per year that are given to subsidies to public enterprises, because of the unwillingness of the public sector to reform and release party personnel. The price is also paid by farmers. Agriculture, on the other hand, is not a budget winner. It contributes to the budget at least as much as it receives from the budget or how much the agricultural budget is cut. When we talk about the budget, one technical remark, the figures given in the explanation of the bill on figures found in the famous Article 8. Budget law doesn't agree. On the basis of the Law, the 4002 Programme "Subject to the private sector for strawberry and berries in southern Serbia" and I have been given the programme in Article 8. I couldn't find the budget law. On the other hand, I did find program 4005 IPARD with a billion dinars, and it's not explained. Other programmes that match the Budget Law do not match the figures, so I guess the reasoning should actually be what was adopted last week under the Budget Law. So the remark is technical. Not to forget the Waters Act, at the recent session of SO Vienna's board of directors, the ruling majority voted in favour of the island between two translations on Tisa. Our committees have in vain drawn attention to a bunch of illegalities on which such a decision stands. A year ago, the Vienna Katastre entered the right to property to the Republic, "Vode Vojvodina" deleted it as a user, and the purpose was changed to city building land. The Vienna Katastre was also deaf to the reactions of the province's defence that the procedure was done illegally, and all of this was done to create the preconditions for the company "Alghanim National" from Kuwait and the company "Arab Invest" from Novi Sad to implement their projects, some wellness centres, spas, etc., on a lake between two translations at Tisa, on an island between two translators at Tisa. It is also one of the investors who negotiates directly with the prime minister and ministers in his investments. Public listening, which was held in parliament in terms of water management, mentioned the problem of building derivative mini hydropower plants, whose ecological consequences sound quite alarming. There's a plan, apparently, that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10067	Thank you, Mr. Guric. It's been 20 minutes. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10068	Your Honor, we have three laws before us to put out fires here at the moment. We know why you're adopting them, and we'll probably talk about it in particular. My question is to you, and that's what we want from agriculture in Serbia? Do we want to continue to use the agenda as a question of Kosovo, I just said that, in demagogical debates, in pre-election campaigns, to talk about how this is the greatest potential of development, how can we live out of it, or are we seriously going to do this job? You're very short here. Let me remind you that the main postulates of European agrarian policies that we are seeking are certainty and predictability. Predictability means that you have a clear agrarian policy of what you want to do through some long-term goal, certainty means that you have direct measures to achieve that goal. Of course it's not good when, now let's not just turn to the last five years of the government of Alexander Vukic, but since 2000, we've changed, I don't know, 11 or 12 ministers, there's neither predictability nor certainty. We cannot look back on the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic, who said a few good things in that exposé, apropo of what he wanted from agriculture, and didn't finish that sentence. He thinks, and I hope the government too, that it should be an economic activity that makes a profit for this country and something that is a developmental opportunity, but it had to end a sentence – then in such a primary production industry 25% of these citizens of this country cannot. Simply, you must be finally honest, clear and responsible and say – if you have 25% of primary production employees, you are not a sufficiently economically developed country in the 21st century, you are not even at the end of the 21st century. It's the first postulate, if we agree that this is industry and business, then we have to act like it. To our question whether you should deal with the processing industry, the answer is yes. That's the primary objective of your occupation. I expect those 11 billion we were facing, to be given according to special measures for direct investment, 90% to be invested in the processing industry. Nikola Knezic, president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, took office there sometime in June 1974 and then said at that inaugural meeting in the Assembly the next thing, it was then on Vojvodina, and today it concerns Serbia – if we continue to deal with primary production, Vojvodina will be the most underdeveloped region in the SFRY. The same sentence applies to Serbia today. If we don't deal with it, profits per hectare, and it can only come by trying to get the processing industry back in Vojvodina, that's the end of nine years, by ending the last project, which is the sugarcane in the Caves, and then reaching Vojvodina's gross product at the level of Slovenia, showed how we can deal with agriculture as a development opportunity, not as primary production, where we will export mercantile products and import final products. It's like in Bosnia that they complain - they export balvana and import furniture. We had it, and we should try to make a strategy on how to get there. You're saying we decided to be an open market. Unfortunately, we didn't decide for ourselves. We had a President of the Republic in 1989 who, after weeks of delay in his memoirs, wrote that the Berlin Wall had fallen, it was Borissav Jovic. We haven't made our own decision, unfortunately. If we knew what was going on, we'd be talking about this in 1994, 1995 or 1996, not 2016, and we're where we are. What are the resources in agriculture? The first and primary resources, like in any business, are human. We can't get administrative jobs to change demographic policies in the labour force in agriculture. You can't take administrative measures now to get someone to deal with agriculture unless he has his own interests and profits. In the end, it is not such a situation in the entire territory of this country. We have two different concepts. We have an average farmer in Vojvodina who is 33, 34, 35 years old and who recognized his interest in the moment when by law Ivana Dulic land was taken from state-owned companies and given for bid. That's when we get the phenomenon that only then, in 2007, we have extra values that we can go to third markets with. So it's not the same situation everywhere. That's the first problem. Another problem is that this certainty and predictability must be clearly reflected in agrarian policies and we cannot change the strategy of agriculture every two or three years. A strategy like strategy, this one has gone catastrophic. It's not about the main issues and the topics that need to bring results to what we're talking about. But before that, we have to say what we want, whether we want agriculture with 25% of the total population, which in one way or another, so we have taxi drivers that are registered as agricultural producers, in order to exercise health and social rights, or we have serious farmers to deal with. Of course, in transition, we must not forget the ones you talked about and talked about all the time, which are non-commercial agricultural holdings. They're mostly nursing households, they're the ones that have between one and four male cows, which have disastrously low incomes, for several reasons. First, lack of knowledge, experience in terms of new technologies, and on the other hand we have catastrophic genetics, conditions of holding, poor quality of the final product that they produce. When you look at the quality of the milk, you will find that in most of these households the worst quality, of course they are at least paid, according to the pricer of those buyers who control what they're working on. We also have a problem with corruption big in agriculture, which is your job that you can solve without money. You have a problem with corruption at the Department of Health, a serious problem, a serious problem you have here, I can tell you privately about these issues, but you don't need to. In the end, you have a position in the budget where we will pay the fines thanks to irresponsible behavior. It's not your responsibility or the responsibility of the administration you're running today. We have a problem and you were just talking about plant protection. Yeah, don't get tight about not having any re-export abuses, someone mentioned re-export here, we still have it, and that situation is damaging domestic agriculture. The first is the irresponsibility of these people who work because they are basically doing this job, if they allow themselves to import a Macedonian apple, without any quality, in famous traps and to export it to Russia, they cut their own branch on which they sit, and we also need to strengthen control. It's not your fault for 11 acres of GMOs, it's a two-pound jack in the car, but we need to boost control because tomorrow we're going to have different circumstances, it's going to be your biggest challenge and task, when we have to agree our regulations with the VTO, then we need to have complete control, and then we need to know which soy comes from the GMOs, which doesn't encourage and we need to know what's going on in the market and above all in what we all eat, and that's pig meat in that case. We have a story about very complicated things, from your angle. We have one industry that works differently in Vojvodina, we have another industry that works in central Serbia, which is very different again, and it needs to be able to find these instruments that will work. I absolutely agree with the fact that we have to go to the commission, not only in central Serbia, but even in Vojvodina. We need to increase the surface, but the surface is not crucial. I agree with you that capital contributions in agriculture are what will increase the additional value of agriculture and somewhere in the Encouraging Act you seem to have, introduce measures that will allow small primary producers to produce milk and cheese, and are not relying on large buyers where the price varies year by year, from month to month, from quality to quality, depending on the price of the market and the amount of milk on the market, and that is very good. You have a restrictive measure that they can only produce 40 kilometers from the site of production, which is insane. How are they going to sell the best hat and pyrot iron sausage from Pirot, except for the market in Pirot? That law must be amended. The one registered, which meets the requirements, must also be able to sell in Belgrade. In the end, visit Belgrade restaurants, every domestic product is wild in them. He travels by bus, in a bus bunker, because he is not allowed to sell his primary product in a restaurant in Belgrade. It can appear on the green market, only 40 kilometers away from the site of production. We're talking about a secure market. We're halfway there now, and that's the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that we cannot attract foreign investment in the processing industry and domestic investment in the processing industry, 150 human-food foods and so much more for medicine is produced from corn processing. We heard just now from a colleague of Jovanovic what "Servo Mihalj" was doing. Today we have a processing of no more than 15 such products. It's not only a problem that we sell mercantile corn, which is, of course, subject to stock prices, but it's also a problem that we have a price fluctuation of almost 80% every year. In order to prevent one year, the price of corn that does not depend, of course, on us even though we are the eighth producer in the world, but depends on a lot of larger producers, is not 24 dinars, and next year 12, you have to have processing capacity here. That's when you have futures, that's when people who deal with the ransom come to you both for these companies and who buy the production automatically raise the price. There's a huge question left of stock reserves. We haven't been intervention of stock reserves since 2012, we have large droughts. What's going on with the stock reserves? It must be you, though it's not your portfolio that's very interested. It's impossible to intervene on the market with at least some quantities from the stock reserve. What are the abuses in the stock reserve system? Who abused the stock reserves? Don't let us read on the tabloids and listen to stories in the towers. We have to create conditions and not just protect tycoons in this case. We had a situation, and you know it well that when Osjeka Sugar and Zupanja contracts Srem and Backo for the production of sugar tails of 48 dinars, they pay it to producers in Srem and Backo, and they don't care if they sell it to Todoric or Kostic, we have an administrative ban, so the peasant can't export the primary product, and then buy it for 28 dinars. Twenty dinars per kilo, and count 90 tons per hectare on average in Sreme. It's a robbery. We haven't had more robberies in this country than robbery, administrative robbery in favour of tycoon, but in agrarian. And that's what every minister did. Look, you haven't come yet, it's a period of the year, it's not your turn. We had what I fought against in 2012. Why the export ban? They wanted to ban corn and wheat, so we fought somehow, and the rest of the industrial plants. You've been misappropriated by sunflowers in 2013. It's a crime in America, in a liberal economy, and not here, by agreeing the primary, or processors and saying this is our composition price, and that would be fine, because we can take it anywhere we want that sunflower. But the problem is, the next thing I know, the state forbids me to get out of here, so I take that extra value every other year to the primary producer. That kind of thing while you're a minister can never happen again. Let's get back to the law. It's three laws. Rural Development Act, Agricultural Land. The Agricultural and Rural Development Act is a law that complies with IPARD programmes. We as DS every law that is something about European integration, especially one that aims and implements some of the funds that will come we will support. I'll tell you right now. The problem is that we haven't heard the answers to who came to mind, and it's occurred to Minister Knezevic to shut down the Agrarian Payments Authority in Šapec and to lose those four years that you still have to solve a problem that isn't your problem. Why was that done? It is not true that there are no personnel here and that the personnel only live in Belgrade. It is not true that Shabac, Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, Valjevo, do not have the staff to work the Agrarian Payments Authority. That's not true. We lost four years on someone's cap, a private decision to get it back to Belgrade because some people have to travel from Belgrade, so to Sapca, you can think, so a large number of people in this country travel every day from Belgrade to work, so they don't complain. As far as resources are concerned, your resources are the key thing. Resources are people, resources are land. The biggest shame that has happened is the State Agricultural Land Act. If we recognize land and people as resources, and we have evidence from a agricultural producer in Vojvodina, in Backo Palanca, in Sremska Mitrovica, in Indjia, wherever you want, don't take away that land because you want to make other variations, combinations, invent aldamas, arades, but a father god whom you want, and take away those who can process it and make excess values. Today, the average age of top producers is 30 and a few years. They bought the machinery, they pawned their heritage, their land, their wife and children, so they could increase the production volume. They're very successful at it, they don't need the help of the state. I don't think they're taking away the humble subsidies that the state is giving them right now to do other things, and we're now trying to take away that resource because it's more important to them, because the prime minister heard somewhere that this guy is a good farmer. Here on that day when the government was elected, he offered me to go to visit the great results and capital investments in the Adriatic, Gaydobra, Bački Sivac and Karajordjevo. I left alone, not even close to the results of the agricultural producers from Backa Palanka, Mladenova and the surrounding area. Not even close. And don't believe that any better than these people are gonna do those things. The land is a resource in this story. These primary jobs should not be dealt with by 25% of people, should be dealt with by a lot less people, and the rest will be employed in the processing industry by abolishing administrative protection in favour of the tycoon by getting in the way of SOJAPROTEIN and MK Groups and Matijević and Peri, Miki, Simi and allowing us to have a competition here. It will generate new jobs and what Nikola Kmezic has done for nine years, because it has produced results. As far as the Water Act is concerned. The water law, which is unclear that Vojvodina's waters have existed since 1793, those with the problem of Serbia's leadership have only as much connection as the water as the fluid exists there. That's two different jobs. There's lush water in here. A whole other knowledge needed for that. New capital investments are needed, and other things are done here. Three hundred thousand acres each year is exposed to underwater waters. You've got to stop the outside and the internal waters. You have to deal with it. That knowledge has been generated since 1793 by the Kish brothers and the contract with Maria Teresa. That's why this law is good, and we'll back it up. We're not going to support the Encouragement Act for a few reasons, first of all, the most important part, and that's the one about certainty. We couldn't intervene on that part of the law, but we're going to propose these days, this law of ours, it may already be in the process, but we just need to talk about this activity as a job, not as a social branch. The social category will be protected by one-time givings during the year. And to turn to those farmers who can do it. We need to locate those funds you've installed and dedicated to new investments in the processing industry. There's a huge capacity and there's what's very important, necessary knowledge to finish this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10069	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10070	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as someone of my 58 years of life, I spent almost all my time in the field, in the country, in agriculture, I worked in the tractor factory. Maybe I haven't studied in 12 years as someone who's just going out. Maybe I wasn't the District Secretary, and I couldn't realize my ideas. Maybe I'm not a consumer, I'm a producer, but this was touching. When I heard that the former regime was fighting against MK Komerac, who she gave everything to, three sugars per three euros, of which she had 184 hectares of land in Kovacica. So, about 15 euros a hectare. It is that I wasn't the Regional Secretary, but I didn't forget what was left behind, which is a few thousand acres of usurped agricultural land has entered the system. They said here, rolling with a stick that it wasn't true that there was no usurped land in Vojvodina, that there was no unprocessed land in Vojvodina, but when we changed the law with the will of the majority it turned out to be and how it is. That the regional secretaries didn't take care of what the law required. We found in India over 200 acres of usurped agricultural land and removed those fruits. We found tens of thousands of hectares of new land, put it into the program, and made millions of euros. We contained dermatitis, no one said thank you. They said the EU would punish us for it, here's the minister. We instead received a fine, a commendation and a million and 600,000 euros for the funds spent, and we will get another million to deal with this in the future. We passed the Agricultural Land Act, which brought income to the state of Serbia, and thus agriculture and received 3,322 billion more than the previous year. We have introduced the levies, with the strong resistances of those who now advocate the overzealous. When we needed the levies, they were against it. Now that we don't need them, they're in. They want to confront us with the EU. I don't mind facing the EU, but I do have an objection to confronting their market. Two-thirds of our exports end in the EU market. Is it economically justified to do so? Of course not. But let's see for the SAA, that for these church-worshipping, let's see what they've been saying. They want IPARD funds, but they're not going into integration. They don't know what they want. What can I say about the leader of the party to whom the professor of the Faculty of Agriculture, while he speaks as a writer, holds a banner, right there? From that big... The 62,000-euro project, and the minister knows it's been paid, remains only a transparency. God forbid it's the other way around, that the peasants have 62,000 euros left over, not the transparency shown here against genetically modified organisms. Let's see that youngest Tito's committeeman at 18 and a month in Belgrade, see these genetically modified organisms, see how he rode into this assembly thanks to that Scott, something like that. Let's see who imported the first genetically modified organisms. The government of Vojislav Kostunica and Ivana Dulic Markovic. Is this the same party that entered parliament as a staff? They spoke against the SAA, whose parts in agriculture are very bad, but let's see how that SAA happened? Negotiations have begun, here, the minister will know that on 25.11.2005. At that time, the government of Vojislav Kostunica ruled. The agreement was initialled on 7.11.2007. That's when the Government of Marijan Risticevic ruled, right, SNS? She wasn't even founded. And now they resent us for their mistakes. They won't forgive us for their mistakes either. Then came a very writer, accompanied by a teacher who holds a transparency worth 62,000 euros, to give us a lecture here on patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in order to change society, we must change. In my 57-year career, as I recall, when I spoke, I went through various stages of agriculture. Agriculture is modernized, agriculture is moving forward. We don't have a problem with any small business, but we have to connect three things, at least three things – agriculture, energy and processing. Agriculture is also allowed to make energy for primary agricultural production. We have found so much abandoned agricultural land in an abandoned country where there was no state after them that we can produce energy on that abandoned land, but we need time. No wound healed overnight. The state is a serious, complex and long-made product. We can make energy for both primary agricultural production and processing. The primary agricultural production, the processing industry, the industry that needs to withdraw agriculture, exclusively agricultural countries are poor countries. We need an industry to carry and we need to get closer, whether we want to or not. One is the road, the other is the destination. Whether or not we will enter the EU depends not on the Croats, but on us and the EU. But we have to go that way to make use of the 175m-euro pre-accession funds. This is the subject of the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. We can't be against integration, and we want IPARD. I mean, this literature teacher, who says that -- the Serbian language and literature group -- what was it? We have to use those funds, but that's not all. Besides these funds, there will still be national funding. Our farmers need to know that some will use IPARD funds, other national funds, and others have the right to rural and local support, and that, of course, all with the consent of the Central Government, in order to avoid multiple financing of one and the same production. We need to amend this law, of course we need an amendment to the Encouragement Act, because we have received something more and also a shift in the common European agricultural policy, and believe it or not, the EU has been created on agriculture, coal and steel, mostly in agriculture. For years it is 70% of the total European budget, now it is 45%, 58 billion is allocated by 104 million hectares and 12 million EU farmers are singled out, but it is industrially powerful and it can be singled out. One is the destination, and the other is the way to the destination. We need to cross ourselves that way so we can export to Russia by standard or anywhere. Unfortunately, Russia is far away, so transport costs burden our production, otherwise they would use duty-free arrangements, that's for sure, and we use for fruit, and transport costs have less impact on price levels than they do in wheat, corn, etc. We need what the peasants produce in the field to process as close as possible to the site of production. We also have to take care of rural development, which is over a billion more isolated, about a billion more, to keep that little man where he lived, to try to get some of the big cities back, and to be a agricultural policy, and those who follow a common European agricultural policy even consider these small agricultural holdings and mixed, to be able to, with good support from agricultural policy, national and common can be in the future for extra employment, so to be a chance to hire more people. It is also a chance to maintain the environment, wild, rural tourism, that you can have someone to visit on Sundays etc. We have to trade to change society. You've got gold and diamonds if you don't have food and drinking water. You'll die hungry, you'll die thirsty. Soon, the wealth of a country will not be counted on by the amount of gold and diamonds, but by the amount of food and water that the country produces or can produce. You have rich lands with gold, diamonds, ore treasure, but they're poor. The people are poor. You have countries that don't have any of that, but they're rich, because people know they take advantage of what little they have. Basically, it's all about organization and people. And we have to organize agriculture in a way that respects the ownership structure that exists. Italy, Greece, Spain, no big estate. Don't think that there are 1,000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000 hectares in the EU. It's an average of 10 to 15 acres. Half of the property in the EU is less than 10 hectares. We must specialize in our agricultural production according to the areas our farmers, worthy people, which are despite difficulties, sanctions, etc. They pulled us out of the crisis, made us export. It is incorrect that there was no export until 2007. In 2005, the surplus was a billion dollars. Now it's about 1.2 billion euros somewhere, and not so much thanks to our extremely high production and tycoons, but above all there are 500,000 fewer of us. There are fewer of us on food, and that is one of the reasons why we have increased exports, that is, the value of that exports. There are things that we've done well so far, but I think things are moving, and there's a former minister here, that things are going well, because we've passed a good Law on Agriculture Land, that it's good and this Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, that after these normatives and the employees we're going to receive to follow this, that we still need a building to meet these conditions and that our farmers come to these couples, because our deadlines are only, since 2018, one deadlines are 2020. To leave time, of course, for the Water Act, the most important thing for our farmers, is not that we're just going to get out of the water streams of those cottages that they only attribute to the President of the Republic, and they have far more, so if we're going to clean up, then we're going to clean up everything, if we're going to talk about Savamola, then we're going to talk about nine buildings in India, which were legal and that were illegally destroyed. We'll talk about everything. We're not just talking about an opponent. No, I don't want to fight with people, I want to fight with problems. As far as I can tell, they're not the answer. They're still part of the problem and they want to stay part of the problem, and I can tell them that when we're better, that we'll have something more, when we're something more, and of course, this more productive part of the opposition, I have to say, Serbia will be big when it gets big inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10071	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10072	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, are based, above all, on the assumption or claim, however you wish, that Serbia will receive 175m euros from pre-accession EU funds. It is something that remains uncertain, no matter how much the minister claimed that the problems that were in the meantime, which were an obstacle, they were removed and there is a great chance that the assistance from pre-accession funds should be realised by Serbia. What needs to be taken care of is next. And if you get that 175 million, gentlemen of the government, do you think that money is given because the EU is in favour of Serbia and its entry into the EU or has its own interests? What are the EU's interests in allocating these funds, and in the end, if you do not want to discuss it, let's see what the conditions of using these funds are. Of course, here in this proposal the amendments and additions are said to be – will be joined through rural development incentives and agriculture. But what is very, very, very unclear is whether and under what conditions can equal farmers of Serbia participate, and what are the conditions for obtaining these funds in terms of guarantee. There's got to be some kind of security detail that's going to be the security for returning these funds and using these funds. In any case, it must consist either in bank guarantees, or in some mortgage stakes. Then you must take care of how you will convince the peasant in Serbia to use these funds. Not to get into some details, how much will the representatives of these same funds, or the EU, that will come here to pay their advisory roles well, which will make their programmes, and how well they can charge, we have already seen this several times when they give,'some favourable funds', how these favourable funds most of them end up in their pockets. But what needs to be explained to the villagers is under what conditions they will be able to get these funds, whether it's going to be a bank guarantee or they're going to have to pawn their assets. Don't lose sight of us having a very negative experience after October 5th. Remember only when they bulldozers, revolutionaries came to power, what then Minister Vesenov was saying – here is the improvement for peasants, all the problems of peasants were solved by the arrival of DOS authorities, sending peasants to rebuild their fleet, to rebuild their property, arguing that the arrival of foreign banks is creating much more favourable conditions for improving agriculture in Serbia. And what happened? The people believed that the most sincere minister at the time recommended that loans that were said to have been favourable could restore the machinery, thus increasing the productivity of each household. They went to these foreign banks, which they claimed were not only liquid, but well-intentioned when it came to the aid of peasants, raised loans, the condition for the withdrawal of such loans was a mortgage. It's mortgage loans. How did the villagers count? As always, traditionally a peasant counts in both Serbia and everywhere. He's counting on how much it costs him a month on behalf of the war he's supposed to pay off. He can't handle these financial transactions and changes, but he counts on how much it costs him and how much he's going to have to isolate the corn, how much wheat he's going to extract, how much cattle he's dealing with, to pay and settle his obligations on a monthly and annual basis. And what did it come to? There's been the biggest robbery of the peasants. I'm just reminding you, chronologically, that you're not doing the same thing again or, God forbid, a similar mistake. When the farmer took the loan, he did not count on an increase in the prices of the repromation, an increase in the price of the chemical assets used by the farmer, a rise in energy prices, and a decrease in buying prices. At first he could withstand all these changes, however, as time went by, prices varied as low as possible, when it came to the input input, in fact, as much as when the inputs were, and as low as the ransom price was, and the peasant fell into trouble. What's the lead on the further story? It's common knowledge. We now have households and peasants in Serbia who are in debt slavery. How did they fall into debt slavery? When they couldn't serve their obligations, when they couldn't settle their debts to the bank, then the bank offered them an alternative. Those foreign, well-intentioned banks, as recommended by the Minister of Agriculture then and by the Minister of Finance, said give an extra supply, so we'll extend it for years, you'll get a little more interest. Are those your life stories in Serbia? What could a man, a peasant, have done? He had to accept those conditions. What were his extra bets? A house and a garden. He's already put the land into stock to buy machines, to supply himself with new equipment, left him with a house and a garden. And many are now in a position to be left without anything. They're putting him in a position to serve as a hired labor force. Who's got the rent? Those who became high-ranking overnight when it comes to the country. How did they become? By providing them with the same, or similar ministers, along with the finance minister, to buy huge areas of land without a single dinar, with guarantees from their banks. When I say theirs, it's these same foreign banks where they were either leaders, or boards, or close friends. Now the peasants have to work with those who had nothing to do with the farmers, or the land, except what they had in the pots, or what they had in the pots. You can imagine the situation now in Serbia. What if these funds are based on a similar base? What if the mortgage has to be pawned? What if he has to attach a bank guarantee? All these questions need to be answered clearly. What are these benefits when it comes to end-users? It's all based, I say again, based on that if. Of that – if you can't live. Do you agree? Since 2015, when this line was to be realised in front of European accession funds, to the day of today, it has been a long time. There's less and less chance of people hoping. We would like, Serbian radicals, to come to the realization of this, to help, frankly, to help this poor, destroyed agriculture in Serbia. It is not miserable and ruined because the Serbian peasant does not know how to work and does not know that he runs the household economy, but because it was a project planned somewhere outside, in Brussels or in some other seats, which he clearly said – Serbia cannot have its own production in agriculture, Serbia must be a market where food agricultural products from the EU will be placed. That's the essence of the story. It's very, very important to take care of. What we Serbian radicals say clearly when it comes to amending and supplementing this Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, it is that there are good things here and there. There's something here that's very, very good and useful. It's a system of Serbian agriculture's market information. Finally, that someone came up with the idea that the system would come to life, to create a single system on which people would be able to inform themselves of everything about the agricultural market in Serbia. And there's this system, which the minister was talking about, and that's the parcel identification system. Very, very good thing. Once it is necessary to put an end to the javaluku, the chaos that ruled over the plots, when it comes to agricultural land. We are witnesses that after much, much time we cannot yet know, nor that we have information about how much agricultural land it is, the property of the state, usurped by individuals. Every day a new one is revealed. And every discovery of that land, especially when we have one information system that will give us information on it, is a major improvement. It is something that does not depend on European funds. It's something the Serbian government has influence on. And on that, we Serbian radicals, we want to commend this proposal for change and supplementation. When it comes to fostering agricultural and rural development, there is a newspaper here that is being introduced to completely destroy the stock fund and to restore it, which is that the accent is being put on this heroa, as something which is now competitive as an export product and which can bring Serbia benefit, which can trigger rural environments in their development. Especially this system that you have listed, which is a cow – a calf, allows people who decide to deal with this, that within a very short time, they can record not only good results, but can raise their production to a much higher level, given that sufficient funds are allocated for subsidy in these activities. What we Serbian radicals want to warn about is the following. Serbia in agriculture can no longer be a raw base. You can't just export raw materials from Serbia. It is necessary to access the implementation of the programme that each government represents, which is to go with a higher degree of processing, to go with finished products. The food industry must finally live in Serbia. It must be the processing capacity, when it comes to agriculture, that more and more come to terms. We are witnessing that banks operating, commercial banks operating in Serbia's territory at any moment, any of us, and especially those dealing with agriculture, will immediately grant credit to buy a new car. They will give you credit and funds to buy technical devices, they will even give you funds, they will also grant housing loans, and when they ask for funds to be invested in the economy, to invest in raising some production programs, there you will always encounter an explanation – not yet in phase and able to give such loans, or if they do, then it is controversial, in a literal sense of the word. Then these are individual cases, and we cannot rely on that kind of aid when it comes to lending or financing initiatives related to the raising of production programmes. It has to be real sources. It has to be real support. We do not now, Serbian radicals, urge the government to allocate additional funds from such a poor budget to raise such plants. No, it's just enough for Serbia to be open to every capital and one that comes from the West and one that comes from the East. After all, you raise one question, or initiative, better said, that should bring benefits, which is dealing with your heroism. The biggest export perspective is the eastern country. It's the biggest market. Of course, no market should be neglected. You don't need to discriminate here, by system, whether you're politically into the West or the East, it's the same market on both sides. We need to open up for investment, we need to open the entrance, free movement of capital. We heard here there should be free competition. It can, according to us Serbian radicals, but the moment that Serbian agriculture is strong enough, when it is strong enough and strong enough to match that competition, which is from the west, which is from the EU. What's to be done by then? You need to help that farm recover, get strong. It is necessary to simply prevent this unfair competition. Why unfair competition? We can't get carried away with the idea that we can subsidise at the level of how EU members do it. It's a long way from that. Each EU country supports, subsidises agricultural production and does not have any economic accounts, let's say – it is now economically profitable. It is done with the intention of not being brought into dependence on food imports. The population of one country must not depend on the imports of food and goods of general consumption. Of course, there's that percentage that's meant to be imported. Therefore, agriculture and agricultural producers must have that type of support, which is to raise customs duties on import goods. Secondly, gentlemen, if you think you're going to raise livestock to this hero and this measure that you're about to raise, you have to think about how you're going to prevent that import lobby that imports frozen meat from stock stores bought in the white world, which are old, they say they're rarithic, even over 20 years old. Whether it's propaganda or not propaganda, but it's picturesquely warning. You have to stop that import lobby. Together with the processors, they're always an obstacle to the rebuilding of the cattle stock. It's cheaper for them to import waste, to process it and sell it here on the domestic market, than to invest in livestock farming, or to tov. And that's the logic of things. A series of measures the government must take are inevitable. They have to be implemented as soon as possible. You can't always think about entering or running for entry into the European Union means that Serbia is wide open without having the opportunity to offer its goods back or if it offers it, it's not competitive. It's got to be thought in a completely different way. We have examples where there has been a chance in the past period, Serbia and what a great opportunity it is when it comes to the Russian market. We had a situation and now we have it when the European Union imposes sanctions, it simply cannot sell on that market anymore. What was going on with us? The lobby, importing and processing, took that chance by importing pork from Croatia, and then exporting the same meat to Russia. What happened? There's been a problem. There's literally been a lot of trouble. In a package of measures, this proposal, which the Ministry has in these amendments and additions to the Law, must be sent together. We Serbian radicals will try to improve these changes and additions in further discussion, and on this basis we will decide how we will vote for this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10073	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10074	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Mircic, I would like to briefly just a few words to say, let me look back at all the exposures of three or four speakers, but I'm going to start with these final findings of yours. Our Veterinary Administration is doing comprehensive control these days to prevent the existence of Serbia and meat and anything that goes with meat, which could endanger a Serbian buyer and we are doing so together with all other competent institutions. This is one of the ways we want to point to our fight, to keep the food market safe. On the other hand, I am grateful for this part that concerns the system of market information in agriculture, this MLP is things, tools that will very much help us in the future. I'll name one little thing. That's what someone was talking about. I think it's Ambassador Jovanovic. When he talked about media forecasts how much will be sown, what will be the price and thus create an illusion of what is really happening on the market. To go like that, the price is said next year, the wheat will be so much and so much, it'll be very low and then don't sow. (Milorad Mircic, from the place: It is not wheat, but flour. Whatever it is. We want this system of Serbia's market information to be one state level, one concrete way to point out to all the participants in agricultural production what the results are, what perspectives are. As far as agricultural land is concerned, I don't think I should talk anymore, I've talked about it a few times today, it's our idea to enter every hectare of state agricultural land and it's the subject of lease. This year we forced all 145 local self-governments to bring in annual programmes, 120,000 hectares of land we pushed more into the programme and 27m euros more revenue into the state budget. Things that IPARD only does to the public, IPARD is grants, no credit lines, no security funds. It works on a simple principle. Someone invests after prior approval of the Agrarian Payments Authority, the following year, or agencies engaged in this work in other countries and when carrying out their investment, has the right to return. There are no bank guarantees, there are no problems of this kind that exist on the credit market. So, depending on the type of equipment, the machinery, the warehouse, what's the subject of the competition. These funds can go up to 70% of the grants. So the entire European Union system is working on this, resting on this, by means of grants, but by subsidy we want to be a part of it. As for loans directly related to agricultural production, I will make one fact, between 1.8% and 2% is the number of so-called MPLs in agricultural production. Therefore, the low level of non-return of credit to agricultural producers. There's a different opportunity with processors and some warehouses. We have a much more complex situation here, and that's the problem. We need to take this seriously. What I'm going to agree with everyone is that we don't want to be a place where cheap goods are produced quality and raw materials are distributed. The essence of one of the four pillars of this agriculture ministry, this government of the Republic of Serbia in the agricultural sector, is the processing industry. She'll be dispersed twice. The first to refer to small processors, where special rules will allow small processors to process their raw materials with them and distribute them to the market according to the rules. The lower level of restrictions they will have because they are not able, but given the quantity of goods they produce, we must provide the possibility of being in legal flows. As far as these large processors are concerned, they will have all the tools that exist, including what Mr Jesic talked about, related to 11 billion dinars related to incentives. It's our idea to focus a good part of those funds on the processing industry. We need her. Twenty-seven different investors have passed through the Ministry of Agriculture in the last 150 days. You know how many of them are from Serbia, which is already operating in Serbia's space, twenty-four. So there are producers who want to go to a higher degree of function and turn from the primary agricultural producers into processors. Controls are very important. There was a talk just now about a phytosanitary inspection, a wind management, and I'm going to tell you one thing that existed in the past. The system there about six, seven years ago, there were these stories with the tail and some other products, where the administrative route was at the moment when the goods were to be sold for a higher price, barriers were introduced. This year there was, believe me, after 15, 20 days when I became minister we had a sunflower situation. I talked to the sunflower producers. There were ideas, ambitions or already I don't know what, to close the market for these or those reasons by administrative means. I'm always a fan of open markets, goods, a farmer must place his goods where there's a better price, with that processor who's willing to pay him more. They won't, and there won't be any more opportunities for border administration and our agricultural producers can't sell it. An example of the sunflower this year will all confirm what happened. Zero tolerance for this sort of thing. Just like zero tolerance to produce genetically modified organisms in our fields.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10075	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10076	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers and co-workers of the Minister, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, we today seem to be the first time in how many years we have won the debate in the Assembly together all three of these laws that are before us, therefore, about agriculture and rural development, the incentives in agriculture and rural development and about water. This is what seems to me to be the first sign of one of the most comprehensive agricultural arrangements of the Ministry, i.e. the Government, of the organisation of agriculture as one of the most significant industries for this country and also of agriculture as the branches with the most significant resources this country has. With that, full recognition to the ministry and to this government for making this approach by the PUPS parliamentary group. This approach to this overall problem seems to give us the right to expect construction, Mr. Minister, of agriculture strategies. I'll remind those who were, and there are plenty of them in the Assembly, that we, I think, were just about this time four years ago also discussing amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture. Since then, we have received a statement from the minister that he is now accessing the development of a strategy for agriculture. Later, at the new minister's house, we from this parliamentary group asked questions to the ministry for an explanation and we were told that it was working on the strategy. I will, although it is not my custom to discuss this in my contribution to asking questions to the Minister, but I will ask the Minister to answer if it is really the strategy and when it is planned to be completed? Why do I insist on this strategy? Because this country has never really been the most comprehensive, the fastest and most serious approach to the complex planning of the long-term development of agriculture in this country, and I think it needs to be done now. There's a lot of things being said here today that I don't think it should be the subject of a debate on laws, because it shouldn't go into laws, but it is useful enough that it's said because it's supposed to be a strategy of agriculture. I don't mean to talk about it the same way today, we'll leave it when we discuss the strategy proposal, but I want to say when it comes to these laws a few things. In the Encouragement Act, it is, in my opinion, full of attention and warfare and livestock and fruit farming, but it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that it is unfairly abandoned, or that fruit production is not sufficiently treated as part of agricultural production. What makes me say that? Because I think I may be wrong, but I think this country has resources and conditions to turn a large part of arable surface into whole-year fertility, so to speak. I take for example, Mr. Minister, it's close to you in the neighborhood, I take the Sword, it works. The quality of the land lies on warm water, dangerous in two great rivers. So all basic conditions for, say, the development of vegetables exist absolutely, as well as greenhouses to develop etc. As early as 35 or 40 years ago, when hot water was found in the Sword, it is likely that some of you remember that the French were pushing hard to make concessions for 20 years right on the Sword and development. They certainly didn't do it in vain. We refused then, the state refused, counting on us to run it. Here, as we can see, it hasn't been done to this day. It seems to me, today it has been said here about it, and I would just like to point out, and I am very glad that the minister has pointed out several times here, that the Ministry and the Government have plotted the development of industry, namely the teaching of the fruits of primary agriculture. I think that's a good way to do it. As I recall, a lot of ours, now already extinguished agricultural goods and combinations have been working on that system, as was popularly called – from field to table. I think that principle, Mr. Minister, should be fully applied. I mean, you mentioned it, Minister, in one answer to the question, and I was going to underline it, and here I'm saying, that we don't have in the field in villages, in farmland, etc., whether it's former cooperatives, peasants, workers or anything, we don't have enough on the ground of present experts who should be, on a daily basis, what the minister said, counselors, and I would say to the farmer's educators. We still have many ignorant peasants who work relying on tradition, as did their grandfathers, grandfathers, etc. Production needs to be modernised, and in this respect it should be defined for what is most useful. The next thing you know, I think it's a question of product placement. I remember, I won't mention the name, one six -- seven back ministers, one was the Minister of Agriculture, at a group of peasants when they asked her how she could help them with their product placement, she answered – well, for God's sake, if you can produce, you must be able to sell. My comment then was in front of the television, alone for itself – and what will the Ministry do for them, and what will the state do for them if it does not help them? But, of course, we don't need to separate them from that either. That's why I think, Mr. Minister, that in agriculture we should think about cooperativeism, of course, more modern than it used to be, but we all know that we have a cooperative developed right in the most developed countries. So I think, when I mentioned education earlier, educators, counselors, etc., we should have that kind of, not to say, training. Here, that's what I was going to say at the shortest, that in the end I'm just undermining that the PUPS Group is ready to support all three of these laws because we think that the government is very serious, fundamentally and complexly accessing their design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10077	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10078	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, we are talking today about important amendments and additions to the Water Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The proposed laws represent continuity in the work of two cabinets, the cabinet that I led in the previous period and the cabinet that is now headed by my successor, Mr. Nedimovic. The proposed amendments and additions to the agricultural law seem an important step in implementing the adopted long-term strategy for agriculture and rural development and an important step towards achieving the strategy of the objectives set. To remind ourselves, in 2014, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, adopted the Agriculture and Rural Development Strategy 2014 – 2024. I would like to point out this opportunity that nearly 200 experts, scientific workers and experts in the field of agriculture worked on this strategy. Today it could be heard that Serbia has no plan, no strategy. This is the data that clearly states that the government is the previous one, and this one now has a strategy that has been developed by the most reasonable people from Serbia, but also from abroad. This roof document of Serbian agriculture has set clear targets that are part of the proposed amendments and additions to the Agriculture and Rural Development Act, which we are talking about today. I shall specify only some of the objectives set out in Article 3. The bill: growth in production and stability of producer income, growth in competitiveness, technical and technological improvement in the sector, improvement in quality of life in rural areas and poverty reduction, sustainable resource management, environmental protection. Important instruments to help farmers achieve the strategy are the means to be paid as incentives from the agricultural budget, incentives for agriculture and rural development from local self-government budgets and, of course, EU pre-accession funds. Agriculture is an extremely dynamic sector, requiring continued monitoring of the effects of measures on the implementation of agrarian policy. We can therefore conclude today that the proposed amendments and additions to the Encouraging Act have been added to all the existing measures and new measures – incentives for cows, for raising calves for tov, which means practically one wider circle of users of direct payments for livestock production. Given the importance of livestock farming for Serbian agriculture, as well as the measures taken in previous years and with them in relation to the results achieved, I believe that this amendment to the law is good and should certainly be supported. As one of the measures of previous years, when we had a lot of excess milk, which I want to mention today, to remind you all, is the measure of introducing a levaman. And that's what they're talking about today. These are the protection fees that protected small domestic farmers, small milk producers from large quantities that would come to our market, given the large surpluses that appeared on the European market. The introduction of a levaman, today they're being talked about, it's not easy and it's not easy. It is true that there is a possibility under the SAA agreement, but it is true that very many arguments are needed, statistically justified data in order for the European Commission to approve the introduction of this measure. We must not forget the fact that in the past years, when there have been many problems, the government has also identified additional funds to buy surplus milk from dairy and to free milkers from being able to buy milk from the manufacturer on a daily basis and make up for their product at an adequate price. I would like to say that the particular importance of the proposed laws is certainly the fact that the IPARD programme is introduced into domestic law and makes it another significant step in ensuring the availability of these funds for Serbian agriculture. As I have also said today, I want to remind you once again, the IPARD programme has been prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection in 2014. The programme presented to the European Commission. Thanks to the fact that the programme was good, that it was good, the European Commission adopted it very quickly and adopted it at the end of January 2015. Based on this programme, prepared by employees at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and I am obliged to say that they have worked seriously, responsibly and committedly, the European Commission has made 175m euros available to us. The deadline, as it was mentioned today, for the withdrawal of these funds is in 2023. What does that mean for Serbian agriculture? This means that along with these 175m euros and mandatory co-financing from national funds, from the national budget, nearly 220m euros of grants will be allocated to Serbian agriculture in this way. Today it was also said whether this program was good, whether we could make it better. Well, it probably is, but there's a possibility that during the implementation of some of the items themselves, some of the measures are changing. Our goal was to adopt the programme, to be financially supported by the European Commission, because these are the funds that will come to Serbian agriculture. We all know, and that's what we've been telling our farmers on the ground all the time, so not everyone can compete for these funds, but those who apply for these funds won't be able to get funding from the national agrarian budget. That's why we thought it was good for her to come to our farm. Whether it's gonna be small, big, it doesn't matter, make it big, but that's why there'll be more money from the national budget for the young. Immediately after the adoption of the programme, the states, the competent ministries, the Ministry of Finance, I must mention the Office for European Integration and I particularly want to mention and thank the minister in charge of European integration, everyone has worked hard and hard to establish the necessary operational structures for the withdrawal of funds from this fund. In that direction, as I said and as you know, we have made the move of the Agrarian Payments Authority from Capco to Belgrade, so now the question – did it have to? It had to, because it was one of the conditions for accreditation of the operational structure. Because these funds are not only classified through the Agency for Agricultural Payments and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. The implementation of the entire programme is an extremely important coordination of competent ministries, and there are also the Ministry of Finance and the Office for European Integration. There should be no doubt that it had to be done. I want to say that the government has found the possibility of co-operation with the ministry to provide additional employment, so 103 new people who will be engaged in the programme, i.e. the implementation of the IPARD programme. After a lot of trouble to get to these 103 people who will work on these jobs, we managed to find a way and at the end of 2015 this employment was approved. As we heard today in the debate, employment started at the beginning of this year, and I hope that it will be over very soon. I mean, could it have been faster? It could have been this law that was made in March, but it's not too late now. We need to know that many years ago we missed. Now that we have the law and we have employees, I believe we'll be able to withdraw the first funds from this fund in April. By amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, we are actually creating a legal basis for accreditation of the decentralised management system and for part of the operational structure to be the Agency for Agricultural Payments. These amendments shall regulate the work procedure of the Administration with regard to the transfer of funds from the IPARD Fund to our users. I want to point out to this occasion that we are speaking unjustly of Serbian agriculture. Here's why I'm gonna say it. Serbian agriculture is an economic activity that has been a positive external trade balance for many years. In 2014, the surplus in the exchange of agricultural and food products was about a billion and 100m euros. In 2015, this surplus was a record, a billion and 260m euros, which means each dinar invested in our agriculture has been repeatedly returned to the Serbian economy. Of course, we know that our agriculture's strategic task is to secure even greater exports. That is why in previous years, both the government and the ministry have worked hard, we have worked hard to open the doors of world markets and we have succeeded in the EU and Russian Federation markets. I would like to point out that the exchange of agricultural food products with Russia in 2015 was 11 times higher than in 2005. In the first six months of this year, the positive trend has continued. For example, in 2005, we exported 11,000 tonnes of apples to the Russian market, and in 2015 135,000 tonnes, and only for the first six months of this year 95,000 tonnes, which is 64% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. This positive trend must continue. I must commend the work of the Plant Protection and Veterinary Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, which in previous years worked hard to establish the necessary procedures for co-operation with the European Commission and we today can export both to Europe and Germany and Russia and to all other markets. That's the result of their work. It's very unnecessarily and inconclusive when we hear today that we're doing re-export. That is absolutely not true, and I remind you that the Prime Minister, here when he explained the government's programme, said, "Come on, please tell me who is doing re-export." Now, I say the same thing, let's hear who these people are, because they're jeopardizing our economy. Well, please, in 2014 in Moscow I guaranteed that Serbia would not allow it. I vouched for Minister Fjodorov, I vouched for Minister Krachev, and so far we had no such problems, because we have established procedures strictly followed by the shipment. So, when we don't have any objections from them, and believe that we would have had it any other way, we hear unserious and irresponsible statements today. Do you know what that could mean? What's behind that? Of course, this will not follow because we have built an extraordinary relationship of trust and we have actually managed to create such a system where such fraud cannot happen. And so we wouldn't have this amount of liquefied fruit. As far as meat is concerned, in 2014 it was excellent and in 2015 it was lower, but because the price for our exporters in 2015. We must continue to work on our declared strategy, which is to fight for the Three Ks of Serbian agriculture. We have knowledge, we have potential and we can and we will. So these are quality, quantity and continuity. It is important to continue with the agrarian policy we have started, which is to encourage manufacturers to increase production, to join cooperatives and other groups for organized purchases and placements, to achieve quality by applying modern agrotechnics and organic production that will find the buyer and the most demanding markets. We're doing all of this to state incentive measures that are contained in the law on whose amendments and additions we're talking about today. I still have an obligation to say, because it is often mentioned that famous percentage of whether 5 or 4 or 3%, for 2014 and 2015 all claims were paid to farmers. It is my duty to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance heard in 2014 by reprogramming, or by rebalancing the agriculture budget, an additional nearly five billion dinars. In 2015, an additional 9.7 billion, and it didn't have to. Simply, they identified these funds to respond to every request from our manufacturer. It's fair to say that now we would add all these numbers up and subtract, see if it's 5.5 or 6%, that doesn't matter, it's important that they got everyone who applied for incentives. It should not be forgotten that agriculture is the most difficult burden for almost three decades for both social and social and political and traditional and economic and all other burdens. Nor should it be forgotten that in all previous turbulent years small agricultural holdings have survived and have remained the synonym of the tradition of Serbian agriculture, and therefore these holdings deserve special attention, support and assistance. The previous agricultural strategies of small holdings were treated as a social category i.e. The attitude was – we support only commercially. The strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 had another approach that says agriculture also has a social function in the context of sustainability. This practically means - every hectare of farmed land, every hectare of planted fruit is important, with two and three and five cows, so support and small and medium-sized land. It is a strategy of agriculture and rural development of the Republic of Serbia. Small holdings will carry primary production in the future, and hopefully, first of all, organic. With that in mind, I would like to point out that the very important conclusions of the intelligent people in this profession, in the field of agriculture, are from science. I would like to point out that several years ago a large team of about four hundred agricultural experts and scientists from all over the world was gathered on a project funded by the World Bank and UNESCO on the subject of the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge of Science and Technology for the Future, their conclusion is -- the future of agriculture is in small agricultural holdings. Many international organisations, including the UN, the International Labour Organisation, the International Employers' Organisation, supported this conclusion, i.e. that agricultural holdings, especially those involved in organic production...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10079	You're bringing the place in, colleague Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10080	... and on small holdings, they are one of the four main pillars and two main sectors for the creation of millions of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10081	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10082	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have very important laws relating to our very important natural resources, but before I say anything about these laws, these three laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, I would refer to some theories that we could hear today about the development of agriculture in Serbia that we heard from our individual, of course, individual opposition MPs. Well, so, we have one theory about the development of the farm of patriots, which I would call, in fact, he himself said it's called economic patriotism that has a sign of equality with economic isolation. According to its principle of this development of agricultural production, it would probably be what you sow – you eat, it is only important that you do not cooperate with anyone and it is important that we isolate ourselves completely in our Serbia, that we do not feel that someone wants to take our land away or our agricultural products, and in this way we will develop agriculture. So the development of agriculture imagines as something that can happen without technology, without placements, without really good products, without working methodology, so it was one of the theories very interesting. I had a simple need to repeat it. And what that patriot MP still mentioned was that this proposal to amend and supplement women's laws has humiliated them. The women in agriculture have never been humiliated, and at least now that this government led by SNS and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic gave incentives in agriculture, when we fought for a gender-responsible budgeting in the award of subsidies in agriculture and when today, as never before, so many agricultural holdings are led to women. Also, we have heard a number of accusations that we do not have a proposal that cooperatives will return and probably that a patriot MP has not been informed that we adopted in the previous session of the Co-operation Act and that this particular government is trying to restore this level of cooperation in agriculture. There's one more thing I'd like to say is that this government is in favour of the accumulation of property, of the commission, and of everything we've heard that we haven't been there for it. The other side we could hear, or another development proposal, came again by those who had the opportunity to show and advocate in agriculture, to see what their theory of agriculture development was, so that this strategy could be called the drag strategy, because all their ministers who were at the head of it, we saw nothing but that their agriculture was industry and business and that it was their pre-election campaign programme and God and the robbery of the state, so we have what we should remember, which is that Sasa Dragin threw 5.5m euros on software that didn't work, which was meant for the Ministry of Agriculture. That's how they invested their money. At the time, certain monopoly groups associated with tycoons, aimed at destroying livestock farming in Serbia, were unfortunately successful. The imports of cattle and products were then increased. So this government had a big task and the fact is it's not easy, the fact is it's not easy, but these laws are just going to work to fix this situation and we're going to have to go step by step, because all that's been destroyed for years and decades is sure it's not going to be easy to come back overnight. So there are three very good proposals for amending and supplementing the law. The first is about agriculture and rural development. We have heard more than once, I will try to say the most fundamentally about this law, and that is that its goal is to remove all those barriers to the easier financing of projects in agriculture. Therefore, conditions will be created for the use of pre-accession IPARD funds that are very important to us, because it has allocated 175m euros to Serbia through these pre-accession funds, which should be used since 2014 until 2020. Of that, we already have about 15 million at our disposal, and I hope that by the beginning of next year or from April next year, these funds will be withdrawn. So we have an obligation to spend it until 2018. The action plan will then be confirmed and implemented as a prerequisite for the opening of pre-accession Chapter 11 in the field of agriculture and what I have already mentioned, which this Government and the Ministry are doing intensively, which is to organise land parcels and to control direct payments, therefore, precise entries of all agricultural land and will be done on more efficient co-operation, i.e. on the accumulation of these properties. Why does it matter? Because all these funds will probably be applicable mainly to larger holdings, larger agricultural holdings and the state will be the one that will help small farmers to join together and that they can apply together, because this will also make it easier to process land and all investments. As for the second amendment and addition of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, I would firstly point out once again that Serbia has a really great natural potential, especially when it comes to agriculture, and also water industry, which I will say something about later, but unfortunately, these potentials remain untapped. That's exactly why decades-old is a very bad agrarian policy that led to our farmer, not to say peasant, although I like to say peasant, and that peasant with a big letter with, because these are the people that make our country largely survive and live. Today our farmers can't live on their work and we'll do anything to change that. Of course we have exceptional natural conditions, but our stock fund, and I have already mentioned the reasons among other reasons why it is, is now at a level of 1900, and we need to know that there is huge demand in both the EU and the world for the meat of the Union. That is exactly what this fight is about, and it is important that this Encouragement Act, in order to ensure exports, exports of this meat abroad. In order for him to be provided, we need to have about 100,000 heroes in our stables. I'll just mention one more thing, this is very important information that I found, that in 1990, Yugoslavia then exported about 50,000 tons of red meat, or June meat, to the United States, for their military purposes, and Serbia exported 30,000 tonnes of it. For the money received from the exports of juniper meat, airplanes were purchased, and Belgrade managed to restore the complete, perhaps not quite complete, but managed to restore it with new buses. The European Union has a great demand for chicken meat. About 700,000 tons is a need to take off. We also have an export licence, a large sum of about 9,000 tonnes, but we can't get close to that right now. That's why I want to say how important this law is and how important it is to apply its provisions and to increase and produce, as well as exporting junk meat. It is then very important to mention that this Encouragement Act will focus on incentives in the area of direct payments for new users who have not so far had the right to do so, because so far households have not been entitled to these incentives, or without genetic resources of indigenous species, or indigenous races. The aim of this incentive is, as I have already said, to preserve the number of cows as a base for the production of calves, and thus the production of juniper meat. This will also make it very favourable that those cows that do not provide sufficient milk production will be able to shift to meat production and thus ensure their survival in the country. This government is turning to medium-sized businesses, towards small and medium-sized producers, agricultural and chance are with us and abandoned villages in Serbia which, unfortunately, have been abandoned for a long time, and that is a fact, which this government will take into account when it thinks about restoring and rural development. It is a very important measure of rural development to encourage young people to stay or return to the country through grants, start ap loans and grants, which will be given in advance, rather than at the planned cost, which is very important. The government will foster rural existence, boost the development of agriculture, but will also foster development, education and infrastructure. Before I start talking about the next resource, or water, I'd just like to mention that there are still planned incentives in planning rural development through the formation of so-called. Local action groups, which should do most of the work when it comes to rural development, will be assisted by the competent ministry, both in its own formation and in the development of activities, making plans and applying for projects. As for the third law concerning the amendment and addition of the Water Act, when we talk about the importance of this law, we cannot say anything about the importance of water itself as a renewable resource. Today I can't talk about water as a renewable resource without pointing out that if we keep using this resource like this, this rule won't apply, that soon we're going to run out of drinking water or a waterless bar that's going to be possible for human use. Experts argue that the 21st century will mark the fight for water, as it used to be for oil, and we all testify that, unfortunately, with Serbia, fortunately ours, does not feel these problems, because we are highly ranked by drinking water reserves and we have about 400 sources of highly-ranked drinking water. So we still have this resource and only 20% of it is exploited. Fortunately, water management, as we can see through this law and through other activities, is now much more serious and much greater attention, so there is hope that we leave this resource to future generations as it should and as it is expected of us. Multi-decade neglect has led Serbia to invest around 8.5 billion euros in water supply, sewage, and flood, flood, flood and erosion protection. We witnessed what happened in 2014 and 2016, as well as some earlier years, that an inadequate policy and not investment in water and water supply led to major floods. The Ministry of Agriculture has also prepared a Water Management Strategy from 2016 to 2034, which, in addition to all planned measures, provides for the provision of funds for the execution of these works. So, this law deals with many issues and is very comprehensive in order to be able to speak about it in principle, but I would only say of some basic objectives that it is, above all, compliance with the rules, both domestic ones that were adopted between 2010 and 2016, and compliance with EU rules. Then, creating conditions for water management, which implies good water status, meeting needs, above all, for human use. Then, setting limits when it comes to exploiting, prescribing rights and obligations. This is very important, prescribing the rights and obligations of those who use, but especially those who pollute water. Then, the conditions of water use. There was a lot of controversy about this article and it will probably be in an individual debate, which will show that this is a good change in the law and that it agrees with the Law on Public Property, because so far this situation has not been arranged, and as the Honored Minister said, it was in principle – who first to the girl, his girlfriend. Release of acts and control of their application. Also, compliance with the Law on Planning and Construction, in the case of a united procedure when obtaining building permits. So the most significant changes are to abolish territorial water management. So now we've got land management, because it's proven that we can't divide the river territorially, so we manage different jurisdictions on one river. For these reasons, the water area in Belgrade is being abolished. The water management plan will require the introduction of water land borders into spatial and urban plans. There's a lot of changes here that we're going to talk about, of course, when we're talking about in particular, because protecting against the harmful fact of erosion and flood is really one of the priorities of this government. We have to simply act responsibly and not to forget what happened to us and to leave for some generations what we inherited and in such a way to treat it. I hope that the application of this law will really bring great improvements when it comes to water supply and self-control of water. Also, transparency will be ensured, both the lease and all other measures. I am glad that land and water, as the most important two resources in Serbia, can provide for the development and progress of our society, but it is our job to treat them according to their use, to use them sustainablely, to behave responsibly and to leave them in optimal condition for future generations. These two resources and the way they are used will definitely determine the future of our country, including the wealth of our country and therefore I insist on how important these laws are before us and the SNS will vote fully for them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10083	On what basis, Mr. Beard?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10084	Based on the mention by a colleague, as an economic patriot.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10085	That's what you thought. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10086	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, there are three very important laws ahead of us. According to the material offered, we see that the proposings have made significant efforts and offered good solutions. True, what somewhat burdens the quality of this material is the fact that before us laws are of strategic importance for every country and every society, because having safe, healthy and clean water means having freedom, having independence, having sovereignty. Having food, your food, healthy food, and that means producing food in agriculture, means also having freedom and sovereignty. Therefore, the adoption of these legal solutions by an emergency procedure puts a somewhat burden on the quality or births concerned that we might miss something, but now it cannot be corrected. We need to focus, so that the best quality can finally be voted out. I'll focus my attention on the question, the law that deals with the incentives in agriculture. We know that this issue is limited by budgetary capacity, which we have had intensive discussions about through the adoption of the budget. That's why it doesn't make much sense for me to join all the mourners that it should be more, that it's not enough for farmers. So these are facts, but they are also facts of all these financial opportunities. What is my proposal and the proposal of the political party that I represent is an attempt to find opportunities for incentives that would not be financially or explicitly financial. First of all, I'm thinking about the possibility of tax reliefs that would be defined by special legal provisions. Under this law and these interventions, it could be done, and above all, for those areas that have, say, particularly difficult conditions. First of all, I think of high altitudes, mountain-mounted areas, high-rise areas, where we have exceptional opportunities for agricultural activities in livestock farming, but we also have really difficult circumstances, snows, low temperatures, traffic problems during the winter. So it wouldn't be just stimulation directly to farmers, where only they would benefit. So that's something that would actually, in a way, stop all that moving from the hill down. It would sort of start, to protect that backwater town. So, that's something that would be of strategic importance, I would like to ask the Proposer i.e. The government and the Ministry, to make this issue more thorough. On the other hand, I believe that we will adopt these legal solutions with some kind of dora and that they will be good, but what they are are permanent differences in law enforcement are their mechanisms of application and, in particular, protection against various abuses. We now have, for example, in the area of Tutina, Sjenica and Novi Pazar, the mass abuse that took place, and I believe that this ministry is known for its fictitious receipts for the false purchase of fertilizers, which was a condition for obtaining subsidies, and thus has been punished and excluded, from subsidies over eight hundred landowners from the area of these three municipalities. So it's one disaster for these people, no matter what they were some accomplices in that illegal shop, but they all claim to have done so with instructions from the Agriculture Advisory Service, the Sjenica municipality. It would be very important to examine this, because these people have been deprived of subsidies for three years, which means that losers are individually from 15,000 to 20,000 euros, which means that we will in some way stop the development process in the area. Also, because one more sentence is very important and I'm done. It is very important to recognize the dynamics of where they exist, which is Lim Valley, therefore, raspberries and other berries to support the additional swing of this dynamic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10087	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10088	I thank you, Chairman. I'd like to say a few words about this subject, which is open, as far as tax breaks are concerned, and the possibilities of possible, that kind of giving. Through this Law on Incentives in Agriculture in Rural Development, we have foreseen the existence of a special regulation in those areas where the conditions for farming work are difficult. These types, i.e. those areas, have a priority when granting subsidies, but also have a higher degree, percentage, of subsidies that return to the total value of a good that is purchased, a building that is made and the like. So, if, for example, there are 40% vomitings in classical cases, 55% for these areas of vomiting. This is how we wanted to intervene. What this story you've started requires is a broad debate, in the sole jurisdiction of the finance ministry, but we're also thinking, that together with the finance ministry, we're working on a special law that will regulate the way it works, and in general the tax burdens of farmers, so we can eventually look at this possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10089	The word has a People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10090	I thank you for this clarification. I think this radiates the hope that thinking has begun, and I completely agree that it's very important that we understand that this is not a topic that can be solved by this law alone. I'd like to bet that we're going through other laws based on altitude, to give a simple incentive where people will start from these valleys where we've made this much traffic, and simply give a new swing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10091	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10092	Thank you. Just another explanation, I didn't say. That's exactly what the altitude is one of the criteria, and that's exactly what the higher altitudes are all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10093	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10094	Agriculture is the topic at the top of the list of demagogue topics whenever the debate is in parliament, whenever the elections are. Since we have the election every year, then it's one permanent topic. Have there been any serious agriculture policies recently? It's not. It hasn't been a long time. I don't think it's ever been good. Something that might have been interesting at that point, that's some green plan, back there from 1975/76. years, but it's only for the one-party system, the thieves' divisions of the world and everything that was then the mark of the total atmosphere. In the '90s, everything went down, and anyone who starts the story that something's gotten worse since October 5th, he's got a problem with the perception of facts. I understand all ideologies, and I understand all the wishes of people to advance politically, to get more votes, but with demagogue and lies, and only by lying, there's hardly anything we can change. (Alexander Markovic, from the city: A subsidy? ) Afterwards, there were little subsidies and in the '90s, there were some green fuel stamps, because the fuel was not there, so it was probably the largest number of people who failed to spend it. Were there any great policies after October 5th? It's not. There's been some attempts, there's been some good attempts, there's been a lot of nonsense, there's been one 10 ministers, none of them could boast of what he was doing, I'm the one I found, I've replaced. I don't think anything particularly good about any of this, or the effects of their ministry. There was no policy towards agrarian, and here to be absolutely clear. I want the young minister, regardless of the party's markings, to change that tradition and to be the first minister whose ministry will be remembered for the good. This, of course, cannot be solved by the fact that the Prime Minister, or some former ministers, will give deadlines that are unfulfilled, which are more good wishes, than something that has real foundations. We do not need to deal with agriculture policies, we need to deal with food production policies. I think we agree on that. Primary agricultural production is only part of the process that should bring about the development of one part of the economy. No small country in the world lives on the sale of primary agricultural products. We can't do that either, no matter who the government is, who's as capable as he is of his words, or incompetent as he is of his opponents. So let's try to create an atmosphere, get food products, mostly from primary production, like raw materials. Is there a future for small possessions? There isn't. They're nowhere to be found. No country in the world, no country where subsidies are five times the real price of imports of any product, there are no conditions. The only way they can survive small holdings is if they return, not to cooperatives, let's change that name, let's be cooperative, not to give their property, but to be shareholders in one big job, where both in the procurement business and in the processing business and in the sales business will have a better status than when they go on their own. Stop dealing with miracles that solve everything. The sanctions, which otherwise did not introduce Europe to Russia, will now be the trade sanctions, but vice versa, Russia has imposed sanctions on Europe, that this is a great opportunity for Serbian agriculture. What did we do? Every September, 15 days everyone talks about ajvar. That ajvar now, that's all, that's a miracle. Two hundred thousand euros is the annual export of ajvar, two kiosks in Knez Mihajlova have a larger trade in a year. It's nice to have an ivar, but it's not a solution. The solution is to make a serious plan of what to do. I think the metaphor is what we need to do, it's Nestle or Milka with Serbian raspberries or cloudy cherry. This means that one product, chocolate, is produced in Serbia, which will be sold throughout the market Europe, and a good part of the raw materials, is at least half of us, with our labour force, qualified from a semi-skilled worker to an academic who deals with the area. Why Nesle, why Milka, why not a Serbian? Because we can't marketingly convince people in Europe to buy something other than what they're used to buying. That connection, that way can lead us to a better life. Finally another sentence, with young people staying in the country. Maybe another idea, it's not an amendment, I didn't have time for that, but an idea that stands for a long time. Let's see how people who have lost their jobs in some late years, who have property, land in the country, how to get incentives to get out of the suburbs, a sad town, back to their village and there see their better future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10095	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10096	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would like to say at the beginning of the presentation that I will definitely support the amendments and amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today. These are systemically important laws for our country, for agriculture. Let us try, not only to save, as some have said earlier to save what can be saved, but to place agriculture in the place where it should be in our society, given that more than 20% of our employees are in the area of agriculture and that agriculture covers 21% of our exports. But I have to go back to the beginning of the presentation and look back at one of my predecessors. I thought, and I think of myself as a young man and someone who still needs a lot to learn and who has plenty of learning and a lot to learn in life, I thought wisdom comes with age, but some people seem to only come in life for years, and those wisdom is getting less and less. What can I do? I can't help these people at all. It is good that some of my predecessors said in a direct transmission that the citizens of Serbia heard, to see, to remember, that they did nothing, that the government of the Republic of Serbia with Alexander Vukic had left empty, devastationed, dry fields, empty silos, that they had destroyed cooperatives, that they had absolutely done nothing, that there was one huge hole left. But unfortunately, the hole wasn't in their pockets, their pockets were full and the rest were full. That's why I don't see that they have any concern for Serbian agriculture, since they have no regrets at all to stand in front of you ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia and tell you that they didn't have any policy and that they haven't done anything since 2000 and until 2012. Of course, they were not perfect before, far from that, but the people expected, had the hope that there would be some changes, that agriculture and all the branches of our economy would flourish after October 5th, such promises were and people believed in Serbia, were deceived, and today they experienced that without any shame, some whose wisdom had not come to them for years had not yet arrived, I guess they were waiting for Santa to bring them, but Santa brought no wisdom, brought something else, and they were not ashamed to stand up and say they had no politics. I also heard that primary production is not something we need to talk about today. I agree, we should have products that we will place on both the domestic market and export. But I've heard such nonsense that ajvar doesn't matter at all, that it's something we shouldn't talk about. And that's what those who are the biggest subsidy experts, who are fake winemakers, who are the only ones in the farm who have done nothing, are not true that they haven't created anything, have created affairs, false promises and have made it sick for the citizens, and through this hundreds of millions of euros sucked out of already empty pockets and empty tills of our citizens. Now I'm going to document it all, because we're not supposed to just talk, we should say it for the truth and the citizens of Serbia who deserve to hear what these experts have been able to do, but not for what they've been paid for 12 years. The famous "Vinograd" affair and famous actor fake winemaker in an attempt. This gentleman, and now from the beginning of the development road of Bora Schneider, in 2003, as prime minister, has submitted an estate card in which he only reported a public small salary, and they have always been known for their modesty, a part of the family house and two old cars. Well, that's to make you cry when you see that property card. Let's all collect some contributions, help such a poor man. What my colleagues say, we buy winter tires for those old cars, I don't know, maybe those tires are worth more than those cars he had back then. In 2007, the gentleman planted 165 thousand 105 vines on the rented 47 hectares of vineyards in Krcedin through a grant from the Ministry of Agriculture. More than 500,000 euros, 525 thousand euros. Now I ask the citizens of Serbia, this is, of course, a rhetorical issue, because there is no way that any citizen will come to the Ministry of Agriculture at the time and ask for a 525 thousand-euro subsidy and that the state approves it then. It was like believing in Santa Claus at the time that he existed, and then you get disappointed when the former prime minister gets that subsidy. You see, for him, Santa still exists. He brings Santa to him for the New Year 525 thousand euros for the subsidy, he looks forward and then starts selling that demagogue and fairy tale citizen that Santa will bring them something. In fact, this ex-expert is taking her away, and what happens to that wine then? He doesn't know that anymore either. He said – I finally found a job for myself, I found myself, when the whole job for the rest of my life was nothing, and the minus in the registers of citizens was multimillion. Then, there was not enough of this wine-line expert, wine-making, one of our biggest wine producers in the last decades, justifying in the media the great expert in 2010 said that the subsidy was received at a time when the prime minister was never informed of anything, which is why he was hardly able to have a privileged position. Now here we come to a step of the problem and see how this DOS fell apart over time. Now let me just go back to the beginning of all of this, how many problems we have today, and why we have these problems, you can see how some have worked in the previous period. I absolutely understand people who run the ministry today, respected Minister Nedimovic, his associates, director of the Agrarian Payments Administration, where I have had the opportunity to talk to him several times why they have so many problems, why it is difficult to solve the problems of farmers, but I am convinced that the team that brought together Minister Nedimovic together with Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic will manage to disintegrate, to investigate everything where millions of citizens left the agriculture ministry budget, as it was spent, what was done with our money, why Serbian agriculture was destroyed by 2012 was permanently destroyed, why software was purchased for five and a half million euros, which did not work and which did not only cost 250-300 thousand euros per year. There was a policy indeed, but a thieving policy. Thieves' politics. The policies of thieves, secikes, kidnapping policies, a policy in which there has never been enough and that policy wants to be offered today to citizens of Serbia. Well, it won't be possible, while SNS and Aleksandra Vucica, such a policy will never again govern Serbia and Serbia's agriculture. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10097	Based on what, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It is very clear that he spoke of me. I didn't understand him like that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The violation of the Rules of Procedure Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10098	An article in 106 that says the speaker can only talk about the subject. A young colleague obviously missed the subject, and you were pretending, and that hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you don't understand what they're talking about. Of course, here I call on the present minister and his co-workers from the ministry to say whether there was anything illegal or immoral in the subsidy that the House of Wines Zivkovic received in 2007 from the competent ministry. Let me remind you that the people who approved that subsidy were arrested before the last New Year's Eve... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10099	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: And you are now rude or very successful in acting deaf or stupid? No, I'm not rude. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? ) (Srbislav Filipović, from the place: Give him a warning. ) (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Give him a warning, that he is not ashamed. He's not worthy of me to give him a warning. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. People's MPs speak in the same voice. I ask my fellow MPs to die, to allow colleagues Đurisic to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10100	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, a debate on agriculture and... People's MPs speak in the same voice. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10101	Excuse me, Mr. Djurishich. Mr. Zivkovic, because you told Serbian counterpart Filipovic she was a dog, I give you a warning. Ask for a word again, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10102	Thank you, Chairman. I think you need to be more active in taking part in the session, because you've expressed -- the shovels, the secicoses, I also don't think they're worthy of parliament and that you should have reacted earlier to avoid this situation. The debate on agriculture and the topic of agriculture is one, unfortunately, in the last five years of the topic we are dealing with before the elections and since these elections have been many, many promises have been made. Unfortunately, none of these promises have been fulfilled and today the farmers, most of them, as well as most Serbian citizens, live worse and cannot see any results of the fifth year of the SNS government...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10103	Mr. Zivkovic, another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10104	In many areas, so also in agriculture, and now the minister representing changes and additions to the two laws in the area of agriculture is in a very invisible situation. He, since a member of the SNS is only since 2015, cannot, I say, bear political responsibility for all that SNS has been doing to Serbian citizens since the fifth year of 2012. Today we listened to his address that what was in the previous period, who knows how many times was promised now, behold, will finally be done. First of all, I mean training the state to accept funds from IPARD funds. These funds, in order to be able to withdraw, Serbian citizens must know that, there were two conditions -- a political condition that Serbia gained in March 2012, when we became a candidate country for EU membership and other administrative or institutional conditions for those funds to begin to realise. Unfortunately, until today, the Republic of Serbia has not done so. We also heard in a debate from the previous minister that there was a problem in ensuring that 103 employees were hired. We hear the process isn't over, I guess it'll either be over or it's over these days, but we're mostly expecting the first pair in April. Somehow, that April coincides a lot with the elections, the April elections when, I'm sure, this government will leave the scene and this minister, unfortunately, will not have time to conduct what he presented here today to the MPs. Of course agriculture and the development of agriculture and food production, however defined, is one of the greatest opportunities for the development of the Republic of Serbia, but there has been no solution for many years. Many ministers have been changed, there has been no clear policy that has been implemented regardless of the change in the ministries, and I think that's why we're here today. I say, this minister, Mr. Nedimovic, has been the fourth agriculture minister since 2012. It is a bad message and a bad experience and therefore, unfortunately, we do not have much confidence that these measures will be implemented to the end and that they will give results that are expected for some time. The IPARD funds are grants and I believe that the citizens who intend to use these funds know, but in order to get those funds, you first need to get the projects you want to get the funds and make it happen. So we need someone before IPARD secures the funds. If the state's capable of doing it, I doubt it. We have not seen the ability of the state in many other areas to develop a branch of economy. We had a completely wrong subsidy policy in the IT sector, which we discussed when the budget was adopted. Also, there are no policies in many other sectors of the industry and there is not what we have been pointing to for years, there is no clear policy of Serbia's development, in which we will develop the economy, in this particular case agriculture. In that sense, this second Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development is wrong for us. First of all, the government has failed to meet the legal requirement of 5% of the agricultural incentives budget. It is a legal obligation, but many other laws are not respected, so why should this one not be respected? What's our question is, is the policy of subsidies per hectare and per throat with such small amounts even meaningful and does it make sense? If there is no more resources in the budget and if the state has no intention of investing more in agriculture this way, and apparently there is no since these subsidies are dramatically reduced compared to 2012, should the whole system be reversed? Should we give up this way of funding and finance investment projects and give money not from the number of throats or the number of hectares, but from those investments that will contribute to the further development of agriculture in Serbia? These are all serious topics. These amendments to the law do not say that some things will change, and I believe that this will be just another pre-election parliament in 2017 when we go to the elections and ask for citizens' trust, and I believe that citizens of this kind of policy will never trust this government again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10105	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to put a few facts out for the public. Whoever has been closely following the debate today and who has been involved all the time in the debate has certainly not noticed the April, April 1st, or April 3rd, as the time in which the IPARD competitions will take place, but that in April we will apply for an external committee to meet our conditions and to plan for the third quarter of 2017 to start with the first competitive means. So any insinuations on this subject don't stand. As for this other law that is related to incentives, I would disagree that encouraging young farmers is not a step forward. I think it's a big step forward, that it's the recognition of a category of users of subsidies that is very important, first of all because of a bunch of problems we have at this point in agriculture and demographic discharge, and I also would not agree that the thing about incentives in livestock is because of a larger amount of the presence of juniper meat, that it doesn't have any function. One more thing, for the public's sake, 3.3 billion increased the agricultural budget in 2017, compared to 2016. Four times as much money will be for investments as it was. I think this budget for 2017 is the measure of our determination to change things in agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10107	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10108	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, what is achieved by this proposal is to comply with this law with the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Public Property. It also introduces order into the water surface system, which is the fact that there have been a lot of problems, and the fact is that a large number of economic activities are being carried out here. After the floods in 2014 and 2016, the experiences that were terrible for all Serbia were implemented in this bill, starting with the treatment of the plums and the division of water areas, which are now not carried out according to the administrative division, but right on the plums. The flood risk reduction is precisely the goal and task of this law in the territory of all Serbia and concerns planning, construction, recovery, and maintenance of all water facilities that should serve in defence of floods. For this purpose, large funds are foreseen, of course, from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also the projected funds that will come from both EU donations. The obligation to adopt a water management plan and water space borders is prescribed, which will, of course, also provide facilities built on the coasts. As for Article 61, which I would particularly like to point out and which is significant for those of us who in floods have suffered great damage from the streaming rivers, this article regulates the defence of erosion and of the lush waters. Since I come from the municipality of Trstenik, where the Ljubostin River is of great damage to the rules, since the flood is lush and that the project that was intended to arrange its corridor from 1987 is clearly why it is so important to place this area very complex under the jurisdiction of the Republic. When it comes to the obligation to clean up waste water, we have here a harmonisation that is to the greater extent of our legislation with EU legislation and just sublegal acts that will be brought forward will also contribute to the harmonisation of the directives on the treatment of municipal waste water and flood risk assessment and management directives. So, we are being followed by the adoption of sublegal acts that will further regulate this area and bring together the co-operation of the Ministry of Agriculture, the protection of the environment and the Ministry of Health. Of course, this bill also provides for the strengthening of inspection supervision, the initiation of proceedings, and the implementation of criminal measures. When it comes to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, which is also very important in the municipality from which I come, the municipality of Trstenik, over 50% of the population is engaged in agriculture, and that is why this is very important. It is this law that puts the interests of agricultural producers at the heart of interest. This law will remove any barriers or blockades that stood in the way of the use of pre-accession funds available to us. The goal is to provide conditions for these funds to be used by our producers. Of course, this law will bring about control and transparency in implementing procedures, which is also very important. But I would refer to what we had the opportunity to hear today, earlier in the day, in the debate. What came from some representatives of the opposition, especially, among other things, from a self-inflicted agriculture minister who ran for this position and recommended through various media and through the embassy. It is important that we know how the local self-government he ran functioned, purely because of the credibility of this person who is very often critical, and very few suggestions. So in Tristenik, the budget envisioned 27 million to encourage plastic production, production of raspberries and blackberries. Based on a large number of comments from citizens on the regularity of the commission's work, a new commission has been established, which revised all the documentation that has been submitted. It turns out that 30% of all applications were irregular, so that's a huge number, over 30%. It turns out that there was even abuse in the sense that plastics were given to people close to the authorities, which, in terms of family ties, which in terms of political ties, that plastics were given to spouses, that plastics were given to those who later sold them, that they were obtained by people who had already received them after the flood, so I'm just wondering if these measures were meant for those who, I quote, barely put an end to the end or those who needed empowerment. I'm going to go back to the Agricultural Encouragement Act one more time. I am extremely pleased that it will address the improvement of competitiveness and will put a special accent on young producers and young processors and will be provided with grants and grants as well as start-ap loans. In voting day, I will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10109	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10110	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, I will try within the limits of the time available to comment only on the Water Act. In fact, what I would like to stress is how we treat this resource and where we are compared to EU countries, given that one reason for amending the Water Act is to comply with EU directives and other directives that govern this area. In fact, Serbia has committed to fully taking over the EU's legal assets by the end of 2018, namely, to bring the laws into line by the end of 2017 and by the end of 2018 all sublegal acts, as they are about 30 sublegal acts to be regulated. It's basically good, but we know that their implementation will not be fully fulfilled, and here's why. You state in the text that it will take two billion euros to settle drinking water issues over the next 20 years, which are operationally in the jurisdiction of municipal enterprises, in accordance with the Law on Community Works. The organised supply of drinking water covers more than 80% of the population in Serbia through a large number of enterprises, and there is a high presence. Compared to developed countries, water consumption per capita per day is very large, an average of 420 litres per capita per day spent in Serbia, while, for example, in Germany it is less than 150 liters, which speaks of our reckless and wasteful water relationship. On the other hand, there are settlements that today do not have public supply of drinking water. In the wastewater area, it's even worse. It is necessary to provide 3.9 billion euros for the construction of a sewage network, collectors and, most importantly, about 70% for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. EU member states had an obligation to build wastewater treatment plants to tertiary levels by 2015, for example, in Serbia the only Saturday facility is from this category, i.e. it has such technology, and we have only about 10% of the population covered by some types of wastewater treatment. Unfortunately, it should not go further than Belgrade, which is the only million-dollar Danube city that does not have a wastewater treatment system, and even a quarter of Belgrade's population continues to use septic pits for wastewater disposal. You also say investments in flood prevention facilities should be invested over the next 20 years of about 260m euros. I will note that by 1991, serious funds have been invested in preventing erosion and editing of the streams, but in the past more than 20 years, very little has been invested, which has caused great damage to floods over the last few years. Thus, large floods were recorded in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2010, that particularly catastrophic floods in 2014. Investments in the recovery of the damages were far greater than the funds that were to be invested, that it was being invested succesively, in prevention. So, when all these are collected, a figure of over six billion euros is given to the necessary investments to settle the water issue in the right way, as the EU members have arranged. I want to ask the Minister – how much has been invested on the annual level in the treatment of wastewater, how much in this year alone, and how much has been invested in the regulation of erosion and lush areas? I'll just point out that our amendment that we've asked in the budget for 10 million dinars to be singled out for the innovation of the erosion map, you haven't adopted, on the grounds that you're going to disrupt some of the tables in that document. Unfortunately, last year the same amendment was proposed, so nothing happened. You say the necessary funds will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the province, the budgets of local self-government, the funds of public utility companies and the prices of water and European funds and donations. Knowing the state of budgets at all levels and raising the price of water impoverished citizens will not be able to pay. The question arises – how will we meet EU standards? I would like to point out, too, that it concerns the fact that there is insufficient expertise in our country in the area of water. For example, the data from the Engineering Chamber, that there are only 1,400 hydrotechnical engineers on Serbia's territory with a license. Of that, most of all in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, while there are some municipalities, there are none, or no licensed engineers. It is known that funding from EU funds requires participation in some percentage of our country, and we do not have an independent fund to co-finance such projects, at least until now, and the Fund for Water and the Environment Fund are budget funds where virtually out of the will of the minister or prime minister the funds can be spent on other things. For example, the Polish Environment and Water Fund is an independent fund from which activities from this area are financed. We are probably the only country in which less than 0.4% of GDP is invested in environmental protection, while in all countries that were in the process of joining the separation, 1.5% of GDP was minimum, and this also applies to investment in the water sector. Since it all depends on our political will, so does the issue of water regulation. It will be necessary that, that is, this area can be arranged only when someone says it has to be a priority and be in that area or at least until it becomes the current opening of Chapter 27 relating to the environment. When's that gonna be? You don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10111	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10112	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, an extremely important topic that you spoke about and in light of these regulations that are before you today, this topic that you're talking about, I think that today was hardly a word at all, and it's very important. The projections that you have presented are, in fact, the analyses that are for the Water Management Strategy, made by the World Bank, and these are data that are by 2040, I think, related to the necessary resources for certain infrastructure projects. The story of wastewater treatment is very important and it is integrated into these amendments and additions to the Water Act in accordance with European directives. The problem is the means. I agree absolutely. This year we will have three such systems within our ministry to co-finance. One is in Leskovac, the other is the Great Bačka Channel, i.e. the purification of the water that appears in the Tower. The other projects are funded through IPA projects, we're going to have a huge separation through these funds, first of all, we have the city of Nis as a wastewater purifier. But the fact is, the missing funds are huge. There are several tools at our disposal and we agreed on the Committee last night that the capacities of local self-government are not such that they can go into debt. The state needs to find more ways to finance this area. Now I'm just going to tell you that in 2017, we're going to have two billion 251 million dinars and still in the Water Directorate about a billion. We have 50% of the funds that we co-finance to build a water supply system in central Serbia, and in the AP-Vojvodina area, the funds that are allocated through the competent authorities of the AP-Vojvodina. One tool at our disposal that is completely untapped is a public-private partnership. We'll agree that there's a lot of work to be done in that part. The amendments to the Law on Public-private Partnership as one of the mechanisms for resolving this problem seem to be on the agenda of this session. The fact is, this is necessary. The fact is that we have to invest more money in the coming years, but one thing you've noticed very well, it's about the presence of licensed engineers who have the opportunity to design. At this moment, we, in Serbia's market, especially in the large ones, so to speak, water facilities that serve to protect us from first-class waters, not to say from floods, but which have a preventive character, we have two points of concentration of these engineers with these licences, so-called, one company located in Novi Sad, one company is located in Belgrade. It's a small capacity. We need to systematically work on developing this structure of people. So do those who work, who deal directly with water, outdoor waters, and those who deal with inner waters. That's a very sensitive question, and we have to do a lot of work on it. And frankly, I'm afraid that when we get into a situation where we need a larger number of projects, here, we now have the financing of irrigation facilities from the Abudabi Fund, we have 14 projects that will start to be implemented in 2017, but we are missing as a state with projects and we have to work on this and I absolutely agree that this is a sensitive category and the public has to be expert in warning that we lack in the design part as much as possible. Here, we have another 70 million from the Abudabi Fund, and we're going to need more projects. We must and thank you for bringing this topic forward. It's very important and I absolutely support the conversation on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10113	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10114	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come to the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia, it is the Svrljig municipality next to the most beautiful city, which is the town of Nis. We will speak, and I represent here in the Serbian Parliament of the United Peasant Party, I was elected from the SNS list. Since this set of laws we're talking about now, about agriculture on rural development, about incentives in agriculture, about waters, that's what's very important to me, which is most important to me, both as a man and as a person and as a man of profession as a veterinarian. I think agriculture is what we need to work on much more, but I am really pleased that we have now received a minister, namely you, Mr. Nedimovic, a man who is young, who wants to work and who already has certain steps in passing these laws. It will be a great help to our agriculture with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, to develop rural areas, poor areas to help young people who want to stay there. This law that we are now passing, on incentives in agriculture, and we ourselves know that the 2017 agricultural budget is higher than the 2016 budget by 8.11% but for aid and subsidies it is four times more than it was in 2016, close to 2.2 billion is now more separated than it was before for subsidies. That's very good and that's great, and I think that this way we'll have the opportunity to help everyone who wants to deal with agricultural activity in undeveloped areas like the Srlig municipality, such as the Bela Palanka municipality and that part of southeastern Serbia that has a future but needs this kind of help to meet these people. I think this incentive law gives us the opportunity to stand out more for livestock, five thousand dinars are now given to the throats that want to deal with it. It's something new that hasn't happened so far, and it's something anyone who wants to deal with this, that's all about heroism and other things that need to be done. So, apart from the throat, these are dairy cows that get 25 thousand dinars, tens of thousands of dinars each in the slaughterhouse. This is something new and this is another shift to be for these agricultural producers. And there's still those funds that have been before, crop insurance, fruit insurance, insurance with what I'm saying, because now in this law we have a chance for young people, for young couples who stay in the country so they can be allocated to them, to stay there to live through these subsidies, through the development fund where they'll have the opportunity to get favourable loans. I remember, Mr. Minister, when you were in Srlig, it was a few weeks ago, a month ago, when you were with the Prime Minister when you spoke to the locals of our villages, what were their problems. They said - we have problems, but we needed to have favourable loans and to have a longer grace period. You're giving this opportunity now, and it's a great way for our young people to stay in our villages, to work there. I mean, it's a big chance for all of us. This section around the station, I think it's right, there's also a possibility for local self-government, and I would also call on local self-governments, the presidents of municipalities who want to help their agriculture, to work together with the Ministry of Agriculture, say, an example of the Srlig municipality, where I come from, for example, the next period, in the next 2017, we plan to single out 250,000 dinars for couples to live in Srlig, to open their production and to stay there and give birth to children, and for villages we will allocate 350,000 dinars. The funds for agricultural land can be paid, with the obligation to stay in the country, to invest there together the Ministry of Agriculture, local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have a chance to provide a better life for all people who want to live in the country and live in the village. I think we're going to give this Rural Development Act the opportunity of consultants. I asked some questions about the advisory service this morning, with my answer now. Through this law we see that there will also be assistance for the consultant, for a field service, which will directly work with our agricultural producers on education, training, assistance with IPARD programmes, that the more people get these funds, because we have 175m euros to be put into office next year. That's a big plus. By this law, it's another step further, and next year we enter into the realisation of the IPARD program. By April, 92 people will be employed at the Agency for Agricultural Payments, and that's something that will give incentives for the administration to be more efficient and that we can do it right. Once again, I, as a People's MP, will fully support these laws, because I think those are the laws that lead forward, which lead to the future and our agriculture and our village. We could always say it was supposed to be different, but gentlemen, we had a time when we knew and we saw it, and now that we've seen certain ministers now and in court benches, just because they worked. I think the Ministry of Agriculture, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its job as well as is said in the 2017 budget and as our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, said in the exposé. I would take the opportunity now to, as a Serbian host, as a representative of the USS today, to congratulate the glory of Saint Andrej on all who celebrate, the glory of Karadjordjevici, and that is also the protector of large cattle. Once again, I will vote in favour of all these laws and fully support the policy of our Ministry and Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10115	Thank you. People's MP Radoslav Milojic is not here. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10116	I give up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10117	The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10118	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which today is under review in front of Members of the People's Parliaments, does not solve anything essential. The SRS parliamentary group has analysed this proposal in detail and what is disappointing is that it will in no case meet the expectations of farmers, especially farmers involved in plant production. One thing that's a newspaper is the introduction of a new category of incentives in livestock production for cows, for farming calves, and that's all they bring. What the promoter wrote to extend to quality bulls, rams, goats, nerases is just a technical detail. The proposer of this law establishes a new classification of rural development measures and cites the underlying problem in the area of incentives for rural development measures to be viewed in breach of the provisions of the Agricultural and Rural Incentives Act with the rural development measures envisaged by the EU and IPARD programmes. What the promoter wrote is just saying in favour of the SRS' position that this bill will not fundamentally change anything, because almost all legal solutions in all areas, not only in the area of agriculture, which have been adopted due to compliance with EU rules, are at the expense of Serbian citizens. Changes to this law that could really solve something if the legal framework were definitely to be applied to certain direct payments, at least return to the one from last year, before they were repeatedly reduced. The Serbian government's regulation on the distribution of incentives in agriculture, especially when it comes to incentives for farmers involved in plant production. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development is subject to frequent changes and additions. From 2013 to today, changes and additions have been made and each year, here they are, and this year they are being done. It is always an explanation that the objective that needs to be achieved by changing the productivity and efficiency of agricultural production, as well as improving competitiveness. This aim of the promoter is very well written and it is good that the promoter has set it as a goal, and we in the SRS have become a little more committed to real circumstances and have seen whether this goal can be achieved in the current conditions. The fact is that achieving this goal is impossible under current conditions. When we talk about frequent amendments to this law, it is important to point out that last year an amendment to the basic law was made, in Articles 18 and 31, by limiting to 6,000 dinars the amount provided for in Article 18 for the basic incentives for plant production, which is achieved on the surface of plant production per hectare, while Article 31 refers to regresses for purchased fertilisers. This last year's change is very negative for wartimers because the amount of 6,000 dinars that was the minimum of last year is becoming the maximum. On the basis of these amendments, the Government adopted a regulation laying down from 2,000 dinars per hectare for the basic incentives of Article 6(1) of the Regulation, point 19 of the Regulation. The position of the SRS is that if the proposer truly intended to improve the productivity, efficiency and competitiveness of Serbian agricultural production, this time the subject of the amendments had to be members of the 18th and 31st basic laws and that if a higher amount cannot be predicted, at least return to the previous situation and define the minimum amount of 6,000 dinars, both at the base and the basic incentive and regressions. This would create a legal framework if these amounts for wartime production were to be higher. This puts a limit in no way to increase Serbian agriculture's competitiveness, and it is unacceptable for these amendments to the law to pass this time and at least not to return to the previous situation. That is how competitive Serbian agriculture is, and especially military production, we are well aware of all of us. Many years back in practice in Serbia is that it dominates the import of European food that is subsidized and thus destroys our agriculture. Our farmers cannot be competitive with the price that producers in countries where production is much cheaper, because their countries have regressed that agricultural production and because they know in advance which agricultural cultures the state will finance in the coming years. We mostly have everything from case to case. There is also a reduction of incentives, so farmers give up production, and some cultures die in our home. That's why our customers, for example. They offer white onions from China at a price lower than domestic, but with additional chemicals discovered in China's white port by customers in Australia and who they won't, while we're very happy to buy them for a lower price than domestic. In 2014, Serbia imported 960 tonnes of garlic, mainly from China, the Netherlands, but also from Ukraine. When we make a comparison of the annual allocations for the promotion of agriculture, it looks like this -- 110 euros each EU citizen stands out annually for the promotion of agriculture, 590 euros for each Dutchman, and 20 euros for each Serb. Defeating data for one such country and such a geographical area in which very high quality agricultural products are concerned. Otherwise, it is important to point out that according to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in our country, 15,000 tonnes of beans, 25,000 tonnes of tomatoes, 30,000 tonnes of potatoes, more than 6,000 tonnes of cucumbers were imported in 2014. For importing vegetables each year, it gives you tens of millions of dollars. So in 2015, according to the Chamber of Commerce, $11 million was paid for beans, nine million for potatoes, 15.5 million for tomatoes and 3.8 million for cucumbers. Nothing unusual is when imported and paid for bananas, oranges, kiwis and other cultures that are not typical of our geographical area. It's normal to connect from those areas where they succeed, but importing in huge quantities of products that we give birth to from traits is inadmissible. A responsible authority that does not wish to destroy Serbian agricultural producers should not allow such things in any case. It is high time the government in Serbia stopped treating them as a social category and started treating them as a development category. This is a basic prerequisite for the recovery of agriculture first, and then the overall Serbian economy, because agriculture with one reasonable treatment can be a good basis for development. It is of great importance, and this is primarily a political issue that Serbian authorities have since 2009 since co-operation with the EU, and on the other hand do not make sufficient use of available opportunities to co-operate with the Russian Federation. The SRS' stance is clear there, we argue that stopping co-operation with the EU, which will never accept Serbia in its membership, turning towards co-operation with Russia would mean rebirth for Serbia's economy. As regards the second law under discussion today, the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Proposer said to amend and supplement the arrangements, as well as the adaptation of our laws on agriculture, etc. the sectoral agreement, and based on the final report on the observations and recommendations made by the European Commission. What predominantly dominates the reasoning cited by the promoter, and what our SRS ears are, is aid, where we are talking about EU financial assistance, in this case under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance IPA two and IPARD two. We have already said many times that the EU cannot especially, not the Republic of Serbia, but everything it does, it does for the sake of interest. In addition to that, I will give just one example. These days there are current events surrounding the abolition of the Preleuman, i.e. specific taxes on imports of milk and milk products. The Serbian government is required to make such a decision. It is a request from Brussels, more specifically about the pressure on Brussels requesting that the provisions of the SAA which does not provide for the privileged status of domestic milkers be respected. These pressures have been going on for a long time, and this year they were there, but the government hasn't made a decision to abolish them. Since our milk producers in an envious situation, it would not be necessary to make such a decision this time under the pressure of Brussels. This is just one little example of how so-called. EU friends also help, which is why the SRS insists on breaking up the practice of joining the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10119	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10120	I thank you, Your Honor. We want to discuss all three legislative proposals, both agriculture and rural development, and in the incentives in agriculture and rural development and the amendments to the Water Act. The SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary group, above all, wants to change the course a little, and what most MPs have been talking about, some kind of market economy and something that I need to adapt to. The market economy, unfortunately or fortunately, no longer exists anywhere in the world. We should think about the green economy and the circular economy in other and better ways to save Serbian agriculture. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group and two MPs of the Green Serbia will support all three legislative proposals. My colleagues and colleagues who speak from our parliamentary group, after me, will talk about different segments of agricultural policy, water policy and natural resources in general. Since we are limited in time, I would not lose too many words to talk only about positive effects or to extract some negative effects, but in a few images we just want to help make Serbia look different and help these amendments to the law live faster and start faster and better to apply. For example, in Green Serbia, we believe and advocate that the transformation of Serbian agriculture should go towards organic production. We think that this should be a long-term plan, that organic Serbia can be in 2022 and maybe we all have enough time, by years and by what we want to do, to make organic Serbia twenty others. We will certainly not enter the EU before that. For this we have potential, we have knowledge, laws, experts and, most importantly, accelerated interest and growth in demand equally in the Russian Federation and the EU. Every day in the EU, 50 million citizens demand to buy an ecological, organic or biodynamic product. We believe that even in the course of negotiations with the EU organic products do not have quotas and that this is a chance for organic agriculture in Serbia. What is clear for Green Serbia, Serbia should be a country of quality, not a country of quantity. We in quantity cannot compete with many countries, but in quality we should and can compete and therefore we believe that Serbia is a country of quality and that we should work on it further. When we talk about public procurement, we believe that in schools, kindergartens and all public institutions for young people there must be organic meals. Not today, not now, but in the next four years, we can train our agriculture through this kind of policy for that kind of thing. With all these moves, Serbia remains a country without genetically modified organisms and becomes a country without genetically modified products. We're not just talking about primary agricultural production, we're trying to imagine Serbia with organic honey, organic jam, organic ayvar, organic wine, organic juices, organic milk products. We believe that everything in your ministry is connected, connected through natural resources, land, water, environmental protection, and that this and perhaps even more courageous policy of incentives is needed to regulate both agriculture and environmental protection. We would also like to support, as Green Serbia, the measure of free lease of state land for planting energy rapidly growing so far and perhaps encourage you to go to the purchase of mobile septic caves and thus protect the environment and make agricultural products more quality and better on the European market. When it comes to amending the Water Act, we find, as Green Serbia, that the bill itself is very detailed and exhaustive, and that's what's good in this material, not always come to us, and we don't often get such prepared laws. For us, as Green Serbia, it is very important to support and support that water is in public property and that water is publicly good as defined in the draft amending the law. Water areas are divided by plums and this is an improvement, compared to the previous law, and we also believe that the use of groundwater for irrigation can be one of the good solutions. We believe that coastal recreation after the extraction of sand and gravel is very important, but we are also reminded here of the regulation brought by the Ministry, whose Minister Zorana Mihajlović, the Ash Regulation, and we are asking you to, in fact, much more use of secondary raw materials and raw materials that can be recycled than to use natural materials, and we believe that digging gravel, perhaps even sand should be used only if the water regime is damaged or possibly water traffic. We believe, as Green Serbia, that we lack a water fund and that we need to think about it, as an instrument from which we would more quickly and better encourage agricultural work. What the Green Serbia thinks, given the climate change and that I end up with, is that Serbia may need one national fund for insurance and international reassurance due to the damage caused by major pollution and climate change. We think that we could also introduce a premium on every tree cut, on any juice, or on any product, and that from there we can pay for insurance, that practically these great gambling and major ecological disasters, which happen to us, can't surprise us or not surprise us. Certainly in the day of voting, the SPS parliamentary group and two MPs of the Green Serbia will support the proposed amendments to the Law, but we expect from you, and what we have talked about is that we are moving faster into some changes and that we make Serbia as soon as possible like Denmark, an organic country and Serbia as a country of quality, not a quantity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10121	Thank you, colleague Karic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10122	I thank the chairman. It is very important for the public to say, and the two topics that you have launched are organic production, and it is one of the very important aspects of these amendments and the addition of the Encouragement Act. I will remind the public that the Republic of Serbia is paying out funds from the budget where organic production is certified, whether it is livestock, whether it is other types of agricultural production, 40% are increasing incentives compared to commercial agricultural production. Another important thing, which has not been mentioned, the amendments to the Water Act, related to the extraction of gravel. You've been witnessing that in the past, I can't say for years, the gravel has been coming out where someone thought it was supposed to be taken out for decades. These amendments to the Law establish the right to the Water Directorate, to establish plans for extraction of gravel, as a systemic measure, so that we do not have a situation that due to uncontrollable extraction of gravel comes to, I say, detachment of certain parts of the coast and later we have problems with high water protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10123	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10124	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the honourable members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will be limited in my presentation on the amendment and addition of the Water Act. Water is certainly one of the most important resources, and at the same time a very sensitive resource that does not recognise administrative boundaries or areas. Europe, looking at the importance of water, its importance and dynamism, has made the whole system of water monitoring, water management and protection and has translated it into a legal framework, into so-called "the law". the EU Water Framework Directive. This Framework Directive has solved the problem of both water protection and water protection and water use, and it is a major document that we are slowly taking over from 2010. With the water laws 2010 and 2012, and with this amendment and addition of the law, we have taken a significant part of the provisions of the directive, and we are awaiting the new Water Act in 2017, where we will take over a practical complete directive through sublegal acts by 2018. Our relationship to water, or water, cannot be satisfactory. We've been wasting water irrationally for decades, and we've been polluting it very often. In this way, we are jeopardizing the system of sustainable development, and we are questioning whether as humans, as a generation, we will leave to a future generation sufficient long-term sustainable quality and quantity, when it comes to Serbia's waters. However, this law and reforms show that we are a country that certainly cares about future generations. We show that Serbia is no longer a country trapped in the prejudices of the past, nor is it a country living from today until tomorrow, but that it knows very well what its path is and what its direction is. Serbia today is not a country that has been written off and rejected, but an upright country that still goes forward in development and through reforms. In that sense, we have a plan document that has been made, and it is called the Water Management Strategy from 2016 to 2034. The document today is at inter-minister consultations. It defines, clearly, the direction of reform, defining how standards can be raised and standards reached, both local and regional. On the one hand, it also shows how we're going to reach those goals that we all want, which is the right, clean, drinking water, on the one hand, and how we're going to clean up all our municipal and industrial waste water. Therefore, the strategy that can be changed, complemented, and can represent one serious document, in which it will provide answers to those financial problems that are key to solving all our water management problems, which clearly points to possibilities, how raising the water price that has been a social category for many years, with us the water price of 0.4 to 0.7 euros per cubic metre, which is a convincingly the lowest price in Europe, up to some normal values for a certain number of years to reach that price that would be 1.2 euros. Normally, we can't do this right now, and we can't deal with all these problems right now, because we're going to jeopardize the macroeconomic situation of the country, but on the other hand, we can do one mechanism that, here, and tomorrow, we're going to talk about it, which is a private public partnership, we're going to do very much about it. On the one hand, not only will we get these necessary funds, because here we bid some figures of about seven billion euros, which we need to solve the problem of water management, but exactly what is our key problem, which is the lack of projects, we can also provide through the private public partnership system. All of our projects that we will be doing in the future, we need to work them towards strategy and priorities. When it comes to drinking water in Serbia, in certain areas we have exceptional problems, I will only give an example of Banat, where drinking water is very bad, and where it is burdened, not only by organic compounds, but also in a large amount of certain minerals, there is even the presence of arsenics in some areas, such as the Central Banat, and in part the Northern Banat. It's started to solve, and it's a classic example, that when it's left to local self-government that they want to solve it themselves, that we don't come up with the right solutions. There is one solution proposed in 2006, by the Israelis, which is the solution to get rid of Banat with healthy drinking water from the Danube. In the vicinity of Kovin or Dubovac, there is a huge lake under the Danube, extremely high quality drinking water. In one study, it is suggested that, in such a way, the central plumbing solve the problem completely Banata. On the other hand, to preserve this underground for some, God forbid, situations that can happen above ground. However, there was not enough understanding at the time, one municipality wanted to build some of its own facilities, not in the interests of whether they were personal or municipal, and now we came into a situation that although the laboratory in Germany said it was absolutely impossible to perform such water purification to get healthy drinking water in Banat, that we were trapped and that each municipality would have to operate its own system, whether it would be through nanotechnology, whether it would be in the old treatment system, we could not get proper water there. This proves that if there are such problems in the larger territory, the state must include and generally resolve how it is practice in the world. When it comes to wastewater, whether industrial or municipal, we're cleaning only 5 to 10% of waste water, 50% of the plants don't have any purifiers, 20% of the municipalities have some purifiers. When it comes to industry, we have to be rigorous. We cannot allow factories to make their profits by polluting the environment, because today wastewater is not purified and not treated is the main source of pollution both land, water streams and groundwater. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. I am sure that according to this strategy and to how the government has put the problem and how it wants to solve it in the future, that in the future we will be able to solve all problems. Until then, however, the situation is not as terrible as anyone might want to show or not, I can only tell you that the Danube, one of the largest rivers that flows through ten countries of Europe, is the cleanest in its course through Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10125	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10126	Thank you. It's kind of weird this session, Mr. Minister. It's strange because it has a series of laws that are interlinked with each other, which conditioned solutions, and they all came by emergency procedure, they're all very large, they're all very important, they're all very important, a session scheduled for an emergency procedure at a time when there was a session on the budget and more or less of the MPs, and we in the DS believe that it was their goal, they didn't get the right way to see the relationship between those laws that we're sure exists. What Slobodan Milosevic would say – it is clear to every well-intentioned citizen that there is something among these laws that neither the Anti-Corruption Agency, which often gives us an opinion on the laws, has been able to consider since you sent all the laws with express speed to the Assembly. They found themselves on the agenda at the same speed. What comes to the eye, however, is that you do not correct these laws the greatest injustices in our agriculture and what makes life the most difficult for our farmers. I would ask you and your ministry to plead on the bill I proposed to the National Assembly, it's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. Although the government is not a proposing, it says in our Rules of Procedure that the Government should also declare the proposals for laws by other proposings, in our case they are MPs. In it, I propose that that provision be deleted from the Agricultural Land Act under which a third of the land in each local self-government can be given to an investor of free choice, i.e. a business partner or someone in the municipality or someone in the ministry, without any criteria, without any competition, without any public call, without any rules and absolutely beyond all applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's important to correct it because when we talk about incentives in agriculture, you know these farmers aren't worth much incentive if you're forcing them to process a country that's worse. They are not much of an incentive if the best country in every municipality is going to get some of your business partners and win in a way that is completely non-transparent, which we have criticised here, which has criticised the Anti-Corruption Agency and in a way that not only humiliates them, but prevents them from living with dignity from what they are doing. So, apart from the height of the incentives that we still consider to be embarrassingly low and not enough, we have invested amendments to this regard, given that one of the most important things that the DS was at the time when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced were just incentives of 100 euros per ha, they are now more than enough, we suggest that you make a fairer way for farmers to get to the country that they can process and that something seems to me that until you correct, no aid to farmers will be enough, no aid to farmers will ever be sufficient, because it will really come to a situation that only the worst country in their municipalities can be treated because the best country will get some business partner, call an investor, who has no proof that the investor and only by the free choice of someone from the top authorities, and that others cannot participate in that competition at all because there is no competition. So you choose who in each municipality will get a third of the agricultural land and that choice and what land they will get and how. We find that extremely unfair. I'm afraid that as long as no aid is fixed, as we say to the paors, it won't mean much because the country they can process will not be of good quality. When we talk about the law relating to the use of money from IPARD funds, of course I will join those MPs who asked – what happened in 2012 so far that you were not, not personally, but that various governments, reconstructed, newly elected, like this, in resignations, technical etc. The SNS was not able to enable our farmers to use these funds. We've heard from the previous minister on several occasions the same thing we're hearing from you now. Don't be angry, and that's that, here, it's all collected, it's just that, here's the procedure, it's over by the end of the year, in two months, in April etc. So it's a much smaller problem that we don't trust you here, I think it's a much bigger problem for those people who've trusted you so far and trusted you, so they've lost a year and a half of the time they've been listening to promises that they're about to start using these funds. The other problem is the one that moved here too, which is how many farmers will be able to use these funds in the first place, given that the conditions for farmers are extremely sharp. We have examples in neighbouring countries that they helped farmers to apply, to be users of these funds at all, given that those with significant resources should participate. I think it's clear to all of us that our farmers are hard to have several tens of thousands of euros with which to enter these projects. We have had opportunities in neighbouring countries, let's say Croatia to see that the state has helped them to even apply for these projects, so they can get projects back. We'll hear it now at six, here and it's started, whether we'll even be able to use these IPARD funds, or whether the prime minister was so angry that we might be giving up European integration and whether the burping strategy might give some favourable results. We will see the fate of our European integration depends on how he feels at that moment. A few more words about the last law, the Water Act. There's a few strange things in it. First of all, they relate to the lease of water land in public property. Also, not you personally, but the government of the Republic of Serbia led by your party has proven a little strange towards waterland. We've had a few examples where your business partners have been given the opportunity to turn into construction land on waterland which has been magically transformed into construction land, the buildings seem to me to be a spa for extreme sports or something, and the high officials of your party, now high officials of the province's government are direct business partners and co-owners of these companies who get permission to build on waterland, etc. However, this is about renting water land where the first position says - water land in public property can be leased in the public competition process or collecting written offers through public advertising. Great. Then a second position - exclusively from the position of the 1st member, water land in public property can be leased by direct contract in the event of the lease of water land on which buildings were built without a building permit. Wait, so if someone illegally built a facility on some water plot, he's going to get that water plot with a direct lease? I don't know why you take your head off when it's exactly what the law says. If he writes anything else or needs to write something else, you say, we can make an amendment. What I've just read is what it says. I believe it's in accordance with the Law on Law and Planning and Construction, but you see, it's an unfair law. We have also criticised this very thing in this law and just because something is unfair in one law does not mean that we in other laws should do such a thing. Because what I've read, it means that if someone built a facility without a construction permit on water land, that someone will get water land in a direct contract lease. You are again coming out to meet those who have violated the laws, those who have illegally built and who knows which way you show that these people will profit and that those who build with permission, those who obey the laws, are somehow being ridiculous again, because you all keep doing those people who break the laws. We're not happy with what you've offered. No measure will be good until you correct the injustice with the agricultural land in state property. We have a lot of amendments, we'll talk about them, and then we'll see how we treat the other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10127	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10128	Thank you. If I hadn't been here all day, I'd think I missed something. But since the day of the debate has already lasted long, I think eight hours uninterrupted, in the first part I understood that it was about amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and changes to the Water Act that were all right. From what I understand, when an authorised representative talked about it, but I'm going to take the right to hear it wrong, so I'm going to read everything that's been said today. I don't really understand what's going on right now. As far as agricultural land is concerned, it is absolutely not an exact claim on any business partners and non-transparent procedures. You'll see to it in the next few days. A public call will be made for all those who want to invest under the existing Agricultural Land Act and a regulation that regulates complete matter. There will be criteria, or they exist, based on which everything will be transparent. At this point, we have 27 interested investors on this basis, and 24 come from Serbia, those who are engaged in primary agricultural production and who want to go to a higher level of their agricultural production. As far as the incentive amount is concerned, I would sincerely like those funds to be higher. This budget, unlike the previous budgets, has been increased, but to write the number and not have the responsibility to pay it, that's two different things. I think we should move towards increasing these funds, but we also need to know that where we only had subsidies for direct payments, and we didn't develop competitiveness, we had serious problems for farmers. I'm talking about countries in the environment. As for the urgency of amending the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, I spoke in the opening statement this morning, I think he should have done it yesterday. It is very important that as soon as possible, I think it is an obligation for farmers in Serbia, according to processors, to move with this law as soon as possible. As for the amendment of the Encouragement Act, they were directly conditioned by the budget and by what is in it. We have for the first time, after a few years, changes and additions to the Encouragement Act where nothing is diminished, but we introduce new users, the funds increase. I think it's urgent. If there's anything they need to increase giving, I think it's urgent. As for the amendments to the Water Law, we prepared him completely and watched him as soon as possible for a simple reason, since we had problems with water management in the past. You've all been witnesses, that's the facts. There's absolutely anyone who has a grain of good intentions who has to be aware that we had different ways of functioning the same thing. I'm talking about this extreme case. Some of you have been here in floods both in Mitrovica and in Šapac and know where the jurisdiction of "Voda Vojvodina" begins, where the jurisdiction of "Serbijavoda" begins, where the jurisdiction of "Belgrade" begins. This way, on the basis of the river basin, we determine the rules of the game and that's what we primarily insisted on going in this direction as soon as possible. Once again, because of the public, I want to say that the stories about agricultural land don't stand at all, and you'll see that in the coming days. I'm not asking anyone to take my word for it, I'm just asking that the facts that are about to happen be noticed. The public, I'm absolutely convinced, is aware that for the first time in years we have a bigger budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10129	My colleague Bošković Bogosavljevic, you have probably come forward to replicate my colleague Jerkov because she spoke about the previous minister, but she did not address you directly, so you have no basis for replication, as neither has a colleague, Goran Jesic. So we will continue to work on the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10130	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have really heard different stories about the amendments to these laws and beyond about agriculture. It is truly surprising that most of those people who participated in local self-government in previous years by 2012, or even some by 2014, as well as those who belonged to the parties that participated in the government, today tell us what was to be done for these three years. I will remind only one of the colleagues in the previous presentation spoke about agricultural land, and the same colleague was a member of a political party that based all its policies on the so-called so-called. the story of agriculture, farmers or paors, as they used to say. They've been in power since 2012, and I don't see why they didn't find it appropriate to consult the lady, and that she might then pass a law on changing agricultural land. We've also heard different stories, and here it's even mentioned how to godlessly abuse the land since the last amendments to the law, which doesn't really stand. I'll remind the citizens, for example, that in the Indji Municipality, for example, we have an agricultural cooperative who did just like she did in the period until 2012, as the previous speaker said, and that was her current party colleague. Here, the people of India, you know, and when you talk about the people of India, they just grab their heads on the mention of a man who was one of the leading people in the Indji Municipality and who today sells himself to be a great expert on agricultural matters. So they really sold the land and gave in to private hands. We also have a situation that in the period from 2000 to 2012 hundreds of hectares of land ended in private hands without any criteria. I really wonder why we have this need today and really listen to people who have no idea about anything and show it from day to day. They report that they're talking about issues from the law and agriculture sector, they have no arguments, all they know is that something hasn't been done in the last three years. Citizens know that's not true. Indeed, these amendments to the laws that are before us today are in line. As for incentives for rural development, what I would point out is significant that it gives importance to young producers. The government put the accent on production, not just agriculture, but in a broader aspect, when we speak and in processing production. On several occasions, the minister talked about the importance of processing production, and it is really important that farmers do not only have the primary production, sell products at the lowest price, but make the product more valuable, or sell them for greater value. This is what will be possible through these amendments to the law, for young producers to launch or for those who already have agricultural production of advanced, changing technology and modernising it. Indeed, it is of great importance to the agricultural owners, and we have heard this really here many times today, this law and these amendments of the law are important, if we are to speak, we have heard more widely about it, in a demographic sense, because indeed in the last 15, 20 years, it may have been longer, the villages have been poored, and it is really important that today's government, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, is encouraging them to return to the villages, retain, but what if they don't, and bring people back and start their production. The point of such laws is that they make production self-sustainable, i.e. that in agricultural land, we have self-employment, where the host, along with his family, will be able to collect his work that he has invested in. What I would point out, and what is very important in the amendments to these laws are also local action groups. It is really important to have a synergistic approach, i.e. at the levels of local self-government, to bring together different factors, not just agricultural ones. When we talk about the development of the village, we must bear in mind that agriculture, or the development of the village, cannot rest on the very incentive of agricultural production, but also make it a suitable place to live. We have seen that since 2000, villages have been dying massively, especially in the territory of Vojvodina, and thanks to the former regime that did not know how to invest in the right ways, so it happened that you have a village where schools are closed, that there is no infirmary. Then what are we talking about if we encourage agriculture and there's no one to live in that village? For these reasons, it is really important that all MPs who have talked today about caring about farmers and farmers support these amendments of the law in the voting day, and I will, of course, support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10131	Thank you. Mr. Jesicu, you? (Goran Jesic, from place: Replica) Based on what? So, just a moment, if you noticed, a colleague who comes from my parliamentary group, to mention the "previous minister" I did not allow to speak, because there was no direct address. My colleague spoke about the president of the Indji municipality. Neither were you the sole president of the Indjia municipality, nor were you the only one in the Indjia Hall, I presume. So you have no basis for replication. So, a little while of a colleague coming from my parliamentary group, to mention the previous minister, I didn't let him speak, because there was no direct address. My colleague was talking about the president of the Indji municipality, nor were you the sole president of the Indji municipality, nor were you the only one in the Indji community hall, I presume. So you have no basis for replication. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10132	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, when your proposals for agriculture and rural development laws arrived in the assembly procedure, on incentives in this sphere, on waters, I must admit that we were very pleased that the SRS position that the state towards agriculture and agricultural producers must have a protectionist relationship, especially today in the conditions of free and harsh markets and small incentives in agriculture. However, when we read your bill proposals, which we so eagerly expected, because we believe that things in the agricultural sphere should be effectively changed for the better, because in agriculture, rather than in bringing foreign investors to be given tens of thousands of euros per job, lies a fundamental developmental opportunity and a strong factor for the rapid increase in GDP and the improvement of the living standards of citizens, we were more than disappointed. Why? Because your proposals for legislation under discussion today are just new paperwork, I'm not making up anything, I'm just quoting the quotes from your analysis of the effects, quote: "The bill solves the problem of compliance with the rules and deadlines established by the agreements Serbia has signed or will sign them with the European Commission as soon as possible," finished the quote. In addition, all three draft laws are defined as mandatory, I quote: "a declaration of compliance with EU rules", which again testifies to the mere harmonisation of the rules with European, without systemic solutions that bring profits to our agricultural producers and to the state. So, by adopting these draft laws of yours, our agricultural producers, primarily small and medium-sized land, will get almost nothing. When it comes to the Water Act, specifically drinking water, the state must carry out detailed control of the distributed water and taxes these companies pay or discharge. I will give you an interesting situation where it is said for the majority owner of the private company AD "Planinka", a certain Radovan Raicevic of Kursumlija, that he boasts he can buy all of Serbia's money. For what? Because the state has not introduced a system of rigorous control of liters and liters of water that Raša collects from the country, according to the system – he turns the man to the tap and collects pure profit, while the state remains crumbs and the municipality pays nothing. In time, then, such a man outside the state control system and profiting in millions of euros becomes untouchable and, as a local prince, begins to privatise the municipality of Kursumli. So today the president and vice president of the municipality, as well as four of the seven municipal council members, either personally or through spouses, are the same company AD "Planinka", cousin Radovan Raičević, Vojislav Čaapić, director of the municipal enterprise, his wife's committee. And what does this family-business organized group of people do next? They built urban zones, so the facilities of their private company AD "Planke" are in areas where multiple lower taxes are paid for city building land and where taxes are far lower. All of this should have been predicted by some member of your law. However, the genius Radovan Raičević Rasa is not enough, but at the council session, and he is a council member, in which most of the owners of the "Mountain", decides that the president of the municipality, who is also a shareholder of the "Mountains", can write down 70% of the already reduced tax and, imagine, the genius process, he writes off, the president of the municipality, writes off the tax only AD "Plankinki". I ask you, Minister, will you continue to comply with EU regulations or will you solve these systemic problems in the waters of the Republic of Serbia, because in agriculture alone lies our future? Currently in Kursumli, work is being done to bring the pipes to the private hotel Raša Raičević, owned by AD "Planinka", where hot water is being brought to Lukovska Banja, and all of this is being paid by the municipality. Furthermore, in clarifying the objectives of the Agriculture Act, you are calling for the creation of a legal basis for the implementation of the IPARD programme, announcing large financial resources under the pre-accession fund, but do not say anywhere that all these IPARD funds are not available to small agricultural producers, but only large ones, so that when farmers meet 15 conditions, they are expected to have advanced criteria, including those relating to whether the farmer who seeks the funds has an organic production certificate, whether he has a large amount of money to invest first and then refund later. Our farmers don't want a story, they want concrete works and concrete help. He can't make more money a liter than a milk manufacturer, he can't. Where will milk be placed without blackmail? The purchase price of milk is a very painful point. We still don't have independent milk control controllers, but what buyers do, it's inadmissible because they blackmail our agricultural producers. Furthermore, when the lamb, June, pig, milk is produced, their placement must be provided. Processing facilities are very important when it comes to developing livestock in the country, especially southern Serbia. Despite 300 different types of grass on our premises which are an exceptional opportunity for the health condition and quality of the cattle produced, we have problems with obtaining certifications and quality categories, and everything remains at the level of the findings, and I especially don't understand why we still spray cattle from swine fever, and the rest of the countries are not, and that's why we're disabled in exporting. What's the problem, and why isn't he getting rid of it? In addition, processing facilities are weak, have no export licence, and in your intention we do not see the idea of connecting agricultural production, processing industry and exports, or making direct profits for the state budget. Why did you not foresee the formation of a Serbian development bank that would serve our small and medium-sized agricultural producers according to the most favourable loans? The positive effect would certainly be more than obvious in a year. Furthermore, the position of the SRS is that the import lobby must be marginalised, not to import meat with a high percentage of calcium that is not allowed in EU countries. You must amend the rules on the quality of meat and meat processing that directly stimulates imports, not production, that should be one of your first tasks, not that you continue to comply with EU regulations. Finally, Serbia has long been a agricultural state and it is well known that in agriculture lies our fundamental developmental chance and the position of the SRS is that the state urgently needs to change its attitude towards small and medium-sized agricultural producers, and intervene urgently in almost all areas of agricultural production that has survived until today only thanks to the working and valuable people that the state has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10133	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10134	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today we are discussing extremely important laws whose provisions can improve life opportunities for a large part of the citizens. One of the parts where these laws can have that effect, is the Sandzak region, so I will focus on that part of the country in my speech. The cave has grounds to become a serious food producer in the region, cave pastures are extremely suitable for livestock farming. However, by the collapse of social combinations, outdated machinery and lack of knowledge in new technologies, the stock fund has been drastically reduced compared to the 1990s. There are estimated to be 50,000 large and hundreds of thousands of small cattle left, and three times more could be raised with minimal investment. A slight increase is visible thanks to the Serbian government's subsidies. The cave cattlemen face the problem of product placement, the famous Shadow cheese could once again become an export card with lamb, the secret of the cheese is not only in the way of preparation, but also in the climate and quality of milk. A special product from this area for extra-regional success is raw and dried meat of exceptional quality. In addition to the fact that the demand for these products is almost unlimited capital spillage and the saturated industry would be a solution to the whole region's exit from the crisis, spilling local capital from industry to agriculture leads to the development of the food processing industry. But the proposal is that it is to develop a quality raw material base through increasing the livestock stock and providing basic conditions for staying in the country. The farm on the Cave should focus on products for which there is a demand such as cheese, smokes, prosciuttos, sujukas, live cattle and meat, and wool and raw skin. It is necessary that the state invests in modernising production. The current way of producing is food on the Cave, although it has an undisputed quality that meets only local needs. When we place the product, first of all, milk and milk products, we encounter many problems. Due to the lack of adequate production declarations, this unquestionably high quality product is often targeted by inspectorates, leading to huge losses. Quality also disrupts the poor road infrastructure of the region, which increases the costs and uncertainty of market supply. It is necessary to replace the traditional way of drying meat according to EU market requirements, which also requires state assistance. If we want cave products to have a successful appearance on the foreign market, production by Hasap and Halal standards is needed, the introduction of these standards is a major investment that needs to be motivated. In addition, the state should help introduce a single statistical base on organic food production, facilitate the contact of farmers with certified bodies accredited by the Ministry of Agriculture, as international certification bodies which control the organic character of domestic production for foreign customers, as well as assist producers and agricultural associations to obtain a certificate of unique geographical origin of products. In the parish parts of Sandzak near Novi Pazar and Prepolje there is great potential for fruit and vegetables. It is necessary to provide projects that will finance the development of fruit growing in all these rural areas of Sandzak, especially the plantation of raspberries, aronia, blueberries, apples, pears, cherries and other fast-paid generations. Breeders should be provided with adequate equipment and expertise in order to offer a range of fruits and vegetables to market needs and to allow the market for product placement. All of this needs the help of the state. It is also necessary to provide incentives to build more livestock farms, as well as to place raw products, their processing, branding, certification and placement towards the domestic and foreign markets. In all cities, more meat processing factories, dairy products, fruits, vegetables, cereals, cereal products that would buy from all farmers where all farmers would have a guaranteed buyer and all products would be patented as healthy food. All of this is impossible without the help of the Serbian government, which is why the Ministry of Agriculture and European Funds is, and that is one of the main reasons why we will also support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10135	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10136	Please, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10137	Eight minutes and 36 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10138	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to finally be able to share with you, Mr. Minister, a few words and try to bring to the truth the records of several important matters concerning all farmers in the country. I want to talk about two things, one is irrigation, the other is the Agrarian Payments Authority, or IPARD money, so I'm going to start with this other topic. There has been a controversy in the public over the past few weeks, and what I think is essential is that in 2013, 2014, 2015, and this year, which is at an end, all those who deal with agriculture in Serbia remain deprived of two hundred and fifty million euros in investment. It's possible that many people don't know how to get to this number. Preservatively speaking, we have had the opportunity to get at least 25m euros from the IPARD programme since 2013 because the Agency for Agricultural Payments and the Ministry of Agriculture and the part of the Ministry of Finance, which is in charge of it, was fully prepared in July 2012 for the applications to start in 2013. Four times 25m euros is 100m euros from the EU to invest in Serbian agriculture. Since the state is bound by the agreements with the EU that we have signed, to add money to that, and since everyone has to give half of what they would get, we get 250m euros in investment money. That's what Serbian citizens should know. The exclusive culprit for why this didn't happen were ministers, and there were several of them, and their associates, agriculture ministers in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, who made disastrous decisions and made it impossible for Serbian farmers to reach this money. The biggest mistake is, of course, the transfer of the Agrarian Payments Authority from Capca here to Belgrade. It's not true that anyone in Brussels asked for it, but it's true that when they asked the government in Belgrade to explain what was going on, that some of the officials here, here, there is a former minister, who wrote that they couldn't find enough qualified people in Sapco. Then they said in Brussels, "Well, do what you can, do what you know, and do what you can, and see what we can do." Four years. So, from Brussels, the revisions in Serbia and in Sapac were 2009, 2010 and 2011, and everyone in this business knows that. Each of these audits in Brussels said that the Agrarian Payments Office building that was working at the time in Šapec had been extremely done and in 2012 said that it was possible for the application to start in 2013 and the money to be obtained in 2014, and it did not happen. The Ministers of Agriculture have been responsible for this since 2012. Since I am convinced that you have returned, when you became a minister, a management in Shabac, to be very close to accreditation today, and you have not done that, you know why, now I am asking you here, how much money will you spend to make the Serbian building, the former Serbian building in New Belgrade, lead to the standard needed to be accredited by Brussels and when do you think you call the Food Directorate to come here to Serbia to pass the exam? Because last time, and that was months ago, people from Brussels when they came, they ran off with their heads no matter what. They couldn't believe that anyone from Belgrade invited them to see that shame and shame on the boulevard of revolution here in Belgrade, the boulevard of King Alexander, the shame and shame. Only one assistant director of the Agrarian Payments Authority attended the meeting. That's the man Marijana Risticevic, and the assistants weren't there either. That's what people in Serbia need to know. So, 250m euros, how much is a trade, how much is it, how much is tax in all these years, and how much money are you going to spend, Minister, to try to put the building in a new Belgrade state, and the building in Šapco is certified by the European Union that it's right? For political reasons only, you won't do it and risk losing money. The prime minister falsely informed the MPs and the entire public of Serbia several months ago that 175m euros were provided from the IPARD programme. That's not true, and that's what you said today that's not true. The Prime Minister didn't apologize to anyone for what he said, and I don't think he had any bad intentions, but someone who sat next to him while he was here lied to him. I don't know if you're telling the truth, Prime Minister? And we'll all see what happens in April, as you say, March, June, when the test committee comes in from Brussels, see if you've done a good job of construction work, and you tell us how much it's gonna cost. That's true. It runs at the end of 2016, we enter 2017. A year. I think that if we do the best we can, the big question is whether in 2018 we can get one single euro, because of all these major gaps that were made from 1 August 2012 to today. Another thing: irrigation. As far as I can tell, you've given up irrigation in your budget. Last year there was a small amount of money planned, this year at all. What I think is important, I've talked about it several times, now that it's been a budget debate, I've had time to say, in Serbia about 200,000 acres of land has irrigation and draining systems. Hand to heart, maybe 150,000 acres, maybe a little less than that, as I would say, is legal. People do their best to know and know and where there are opportunities and opportunities to put pumps, so they irrigate their land. The minister knows that, but I want to share it with the public one more time, and also with MPs, the land that is one hectare of land, which is equipped with water irrigation and draining systems, has five times the amount of land that doesn't have it. Five times the average. There is a significant difference among Serbian experts in how they see which areas of land they can and are similar to being equipped with these systems. Since I've been doing this job that you're doing right now, I've had to inform myself of those who are the most optimistic, who have, as I would say, a view of it from the fastest point of view, I think they can even get over a million acres, a million acres of land. Those who are more restrictive say it's 600,000. Make it 600,000, that's 400,000 more than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10139	Thank you. You've got eight and thirty-six, and it's past eight and forty-seven. My colleague Bošković Bogosavljevic, you are mentioned directly as a minister who sits here and has responsibility. You have the right to a replica as a former minister sitting here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10140	Thank you. I must say that what is now said is an absolute untruth. I wouldn't expect such a lie from a colleague who was before me in the position of the Minister of Agriculture. How could we lose 250m euros in 2013, from what programme? You weren't today when I explained how we got to these 175m euros, and we came at the end of January 2015. And the period you mention is true, 2008 to 2012 nothing was done, but it was done in 2015. You mention the Sabbath, so we'd be luckiest if it could be in Capca, but it couldn't. It's not about our perception and our tone of speech. These are the things that are verifiable. I ask you, take the European Commission document, where Serbia's progress in the European integration process is being discussed. Moving the administration from Sapac to Belgrade was not a whim, but a need and it was found to be a positive step, i.e. progress in the whole work, or work on the project. Please, it's not true that one single dinar is lost. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Office for European Integration and the Ministry of Finance provided 175m in 2015. Since then, we've been working hard and hard to establish operational structures. That, sir, my dear fellow minister, is one truth. It's easy for politics to tell the truth, but please, you check all this out before you go public with it. And it's not too controversial for them to come from the European Commission and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10141	Thank you. Comrade Petrovic, you have a basis for replication, but first the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10142	Dear Chairman, I thank you for this opportunity to comment on and present the facts concerning the two topics that have been launched here. One's about irrigation. In 2017 there will be 14 projects that are intended for irrigation, which will be financed from so-called Abu Dhabi Fund. The funds are secured in Serbia's budget, the position is open. We're fully ready, we have building permits. We have everything prepared, with competent public enterprises, we are in constant contact with water companies, colleague Marko Blagojevic outside the Public Investment Office. These things will be implemented from 2017, January or February. It is our goal, as the Serbian Government, that the bigger the surface we can irrigate. Eleven projects were positioned in the Vojvodina area, three projects were positioned in central Serbia's space. We have more money at our disposal. Now we're working on project documentation so that as much land as we can irrigate, this setting doesn't stand at all. As far as IPARD is concerned, this is IPARD 2. There was an IPARD 1, which was in the period before these time frames you're talking about. At that time there was a structure that was marked in the environment as one of the better structures, and then in a strange way, it ceased to exist. I see the way you look at me. Two actors who were then bringing the system to obtain accreditation are next to me. They were working in that system and they knew best that the project had been cut off at that point... (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: When? ) 2011 Why? Why? If that's how it was, I really don't know and I'm not getting into it. There's one thing I want to say and I don't want to say anything here. The fact is, we removed some blocking factors. You asked me how much money would be spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget? I'm telling you zero. I'll probably, or the people who are here, have a chance to talk about this as a project that's already completed and accredited. I think it's very important to say. I just want the facts to be brought out here. This government will complete this job and 175m euros. Nothing was lost by that money. You should know and know for sure that there is a time frame within which these financial resources can be additionally withdrawn. It'll be available and I'll do whatever it takes for me to do it. After seven days, since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have formed a special task force to resolve this issue. One of the things that stood in our way were these amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. The other things we have done almost everything, and the object you call "Serbian Forest" is the object that is in their possession, will be adapted and we will call in April of the month... (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Free? It won't be free. We'll apply for other funds, it won't be budget funds. There's a mechanism of how. We have already discussed this problem with the European delegation. There are still funds for Serbia, I think it is very important to know, which are available on a 35m-euro line about, which have been existing for ten years. It is precisely these funds that we are going to ask the people of the EU and to talk to them about those funds that will contribute to obtaining accreditation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10143	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by MP Dusan Petrovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10144	So, the truth is just as much when the prime minister said you provided 175m euros. The facts are reports, audits, the EU Directorate of 2009, 2010 and 2011. So in all this, even though these two are next to you, Mr. Minister, from that administration, they know all about it, whether they're going to tell you the truth or not, and let them see them with this director Serdar, he was their boss and he brought them there. So, perfect grades for the Agrarian Payments Authority in Sapco. Perfect. If they're honorable people and they can look into the eyes of someone who knows it, then the people who did it there will tell you. Besides, it says, it's not a matter of judicial questioning. He's got it all in writing. In 2012, an excellent revision, an evaluation of one piece that is in the Ministry of Agriculture and a slightly worse assessment in the work at the time, which is at the Ministry of Finance with very clear orders on what needs to be done. We could've started withdrawing the money at the latest since 2014. We lost 100m euros in EU money, plus the money that had to go out of the budget, times two, which would give people who would take that money here, Serbian owners of agricultural registered land, companies and whatever. So it's true and it's facts. All of this, we can do as much politics here as we want. It's possible they don't feel comfortable with people who are guilty that it didn't happen, but these are facts and anyone who takes those documents seriously to read can't come to other conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10145	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10146	Thank you, Chairman. I think it is now quite clear that even then in 2012, when expertise was carried out by people in Brussels, there were deficiencies. Look, I'd be happiest if those things were already available. What I don't want and I don't want is to speculate that money is lost. The money stands at Serbia's disposal and will stand for Serbian agriculture. It's my job to finish the accreditation work and this ministry and this government with Prime Minister Vukic will do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10147	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10148	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, I'm performing after two former ministers and one current one, and it's agriculture. I cheer and think that the current minister with his team is making real moves, that they are visible, visible in realisation, visible primarily in agriculture, protecting man's environment, forestry, water industry, so that he needs to be helped on our part to make the job, which works with his team, pushes out and make this Serbia better. As for the laws that are before the congregation today, all three laws have seriously moved the quality of agriculture, villages, water as a whole. Incentives are fairer, fairer, clearer and more useful. For the development of agriculture, in addition to direct investments in agriculture, I think it is also very important to ensure those other measures. I call it the outside standard. I don't know if that's the right word, which is to provide infrastructure or infrastructure facilities, where we live... I'd like you to stop these throws a little bit. I think that the infrastructure in the rural area must be gained in greater importance, because it is one of the preconditions of the rest, survival and progress of agriculture, in addition to those of direct investments in agriculture. And so far, it's been helped by the state and the ministry in infrastructure, and I think there's more to be helped here. First of all, it refers to a secure supply of electricity, to bringing water where possible and especially to the travel network. I think that, especially in that part of Serbia where we have a parted village, that we have to invest more there, simply, that kind of settlement and those kilometers that need to be done and fixed, not only through the macadamic part, but in a better curtain, I mean, primarily, the asphalting of those roads. I think it improves the village, raises the standard, raises the level of life, and by doing so, we keep people in the country living, working, earning. I come from the area of Posavotamnava, where two levels of agricultural production are mainly defined. It's fruit growing and livestock farming, the primary dairy industry. If, and there has been a lot of talk today, if the processing capacity comes to those areas that have that level of production, we come to, say, the processing of fruit. They use the raw materials base in the immediate environment, and they develop that production, where people remain to earn, where as raw materials they give to the processing industry, people are employed, and thus, ultimately, they repair the demographic image, i.e. remain young and remain the ones who have reproductive potentials, that is, to give birth. Something new, there were little words about it here, but I think it's one of the key things, and that's the absolute paper, it's the land parcel identification system. It's been very difficult to work and plan without that kind of data so far. So far, they may have only had data that was purely statistical, which may have been insufficiently accurate or could not have been accurate data, simply here, when we have parcels, land plots, used in agriculture, where we have ortho photo shoots, satellite footage, etc., where we can clearly see what is happening on the ground, well planned, well controlled use of this land, and therefore financial control of the funds that are given as an incentive in agriculture. I think the land parcel identification system, with the help of the Republic Geodetic Institute, which has good and quality data for this species, which is predicted, however, depends on a lot of sublegal acts that the minister needs to bring in, will simply make good sublegal acts that will simply raise the level of work in agriculture. What I would like to say may not be so in the good part of Serbia, but in certain parts of Serbia, as in my municipality, there is an incompleteness of certain laws, such as the law that probably has the longest name, which is the Law on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land that has passed into social property based on the agricultural land fund and confiscation due to the unexecuted from the mandatory purchase of agricultural products, so-called. PZF. It's just that part of that law isn't realized, it's still standing. It is simply that the Ministry must take or should take appropriate measures, primarily that individual solutions under this law are difficult to implement today, such as the formation of a land return commission, from the PZF. It says that the president of that committee should be the judge. Why would he have to be a judge, and the commission is proposed by the assembly of the municipality, the ministry, or the minister, makes a decision on the formation of a commission, which works in the field, and the judge has no obligation to accept it. It's one of the things that just isn't possible. It is imposed, either to amend and supplement that law, or to remove that law, and certain other legal projects to solve it in a proper and good way. I just think it would satisfy the people who need that land back and finish that part of the job that started in 1991. As far as the Water Act is concerned. The Water Act was a law like a lonely tree. He just saw himself, he didn't see anything around him. Now these changes and additions to the Water Act, simply, he's in line with the other laws, and by my assessment and assessment, he looks so much better now than he's ever looked before. It's drastic. In that context, I'll just mention one more thing. I think it's very important, which is the accumulation of the stuborol at Valjev, or about 15 km towards Baja's Garden. That accumulation's almost over. Chairman, I see you were particularly interested in this. She's almost done, and I think there's a technical reception going on. It's a multi-purpose dam, very good. For this one, it expands the area, in addition to preventing floods, in addition to supplying technical water, perspective drinking water, etc., I think it should cover four municipalities: Valjevo, Lazarec, Lajkovac and Mionica. Since the capacity of 51.5 million cc's of water, processing capacity and technical water is in healthy drinking water, they should simply cover the surrounding municipalities. I primarily think about LJig, Ub and Kocelev, because that's a logical solution and I think that if that's a problem in a water-based way, it shouldn't be a problem. Simply, that treasure we've made in that space, we should all use it together that we're in the immediate vicinity. That's my proposal, and I'd like to ask the Department of Water and the Ministry of Agriculture to look at that possibility and simply go to those solutions. I thank you, and as part of my SNS parliamentary group, to vote for all three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10149	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word has a folk MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10150	First, we need to know, are we still on our way to the European Union or aren't we? Since we had yesterday what we had in Brussels, and that our prime minister came as he came, or left the meeting, so that everything we're talking about today can be in vain. Is that right? Yes, it is. When it comes to these two laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rural Development, there is little interference in the public, because when it comes to this, now all farmers from Central Serbia, where I, as a national MP, are mostly there in a rural area, expecting what will happen and what we will get from the European Union. What we have to say, we Serbian radicals, and that's what separates us from all other parliamentary groups, is the truth we've always told. A small agricultural producer in the rural area, absolutely, at this point will have nothing, neither of the other laws. As far as IPAD funds, and that IPAD fund you say you have 175 million, we'll tell you that you're the 175 million, you're so attached to that 175 million, right? And you didn't say that in last year's budget you gave 400 million, and the government itself, without the Parliament's decision, according to all the discretionary law it gave itself, gave 400m euros for failed businesses, or for their losses. That's what the SRS always wants to underline to the public, it's probably all clear to everyone now, is that there's nothing from that EU, and that with a good analysis of the budget and this budget law that we've brought here, we can look at that we can actually have a lot more money than we're after these 175 million, and the question is who's going to get it. When it comes to these IPARD funds, you see for yourself what are the conditions for getting these funds. Of course, you have to say you didn't say, and you're expected to say, there's no small agricultural producer here, and the aim of agriculture, as a momentum of the economy of this country, is to raise small agricultural households. Why don't you tell small farmers and these registered agricultural holdings now that they can't apply for this kind of funding. Why? Because there are about 50,000 euros to 2m euros in here. Now tell me, which agricultural land can afford it, and who can apply to these funds? So no one can. The constitution, there you predicted exactly how many liters of milk it takes in the last year that someone produced or how many units or numbers, whether it was big cattle, etc., whether it was livestock, etc. So we need to know that as far as agriculture is concerned, there's no small agricultural producer around here, no ordinary agricultural land. Now, as far as the SRS and our policies are concerned, everything just proves that we have the opportunity to develop our own agriculture on our own resources and to live off our own work. Anyone who produced something, worked, lived from their work, he knows that from the EU and from everything you're talking about, there's nothing. So we have this fight between the position and the opposition and you see at all times that this discussion alone is not leading to anything. So while we're chasing that 170 million, we're giving 400 million euros where you don't have to and we're giving failed state-owned enterprises that you won't reform, and yours is to arrange for the citizens why you won't reform them. One more thing. While you're chasing this road to the EU, you've ignored one important thing. The trade war between Brussels and Moscow, which you did not allow our agricultural producers to exploit, and what are you doing now? Minister, I'm begging you, I really don't know who I'm talking to. Please stop the time. You see, this is a fine example of how democracy is respected and how the opinion of a people's MP is respected, which is not called a free people. I just want to tell him what the people in the rural area are, what are the problems of the people in the rural area. You well know that rural areas are very small agricultural holdings, that parcels are very small, by 20 acres, 10 acres, 15 acres, etc., that this is very difficult to group, that parcels are not led to agricultural holdings, or that individuals are holders, so they have property rights based on the state. But they can't get to the right property. Do you realize if they don't sue someone, who they're gonna sue? And in order to have the right, in order to be able to apply for some means and get some subsidies, that country has to be run on them, right? So, according to this, people in the rural area absolutely have absolutely no opportunity to reach any subsidies. If we have 500 and 600,000 registered agricultural holdings, do you realize what production is? Do you realize what can be done and produced in this country? Do you know that all of Serbia can be one garden, a unique garden in Europe of which, not only can we feed, but we can export wherever we want. What you are chasing towards the EU, now tell me that tomorrow you will equalize our agricultural producer with an EU agricultural producer, when he has subsidies from his country which is economically strong, and we are not economically strong and we cannot have these subsidies, we cannot subsidise our small agricultural producers. If we came in, and we never came in, this is just a pointless road, and if we came in, we wouldn't be competitive with them. Since 2017, the sale of agricultural land to foreigners begins. That's why you gave the order to register all state property, or property in the property of the state, right? What's going to happen to that country? If you give for sale to foreigners, the foreigners will get it at very low prices, and then our agricultural producers, what will it be? Only servants of these very strangers, on their own land.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10151	Time's up. Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go. (Jovo Ostojic, from the post: The minister should go where he belongs.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10152	I'm sorry. I've been in the O.R. all day, I agree absolutely, and I listen very carefully to all the exhibitions and I am pleased to be able to talk to the MPs about this issue, because it's my job. It's my job to discuss these laws that are in place today, to discuss and accept those things that are good and that can be integrated into bill proposals. There was an extremely important topic earlier, and it is important to say for the public this September 1st 2017 as a famous date for selling, possibly, the country to foreigners. We are in the preparation of regulations, in accordance with international experiences, to do everything that is up to us, to enable the interests of Serbian farmers to be protected and we will come out with this legal proposal. I think it'll be a pleasure of the MPs. Some are getting here that it is about Hungarians, there are other countries that are in a good way through some of the instruments that exist in their regulations that have taken advantage of the possibility and fenced themselves in this situation. What was also said about the value of investment in IPARD. The minimum value of investment is 5,000 euros, which can be implemented through IPARD, and I think we will create a wide range of options for a large number of agricultural producers. I'm just going to say once again that in addition to these resources we're planning, there are national measures we use to stimulate agricultural production. One thing, the same thing that was said, I don't know if you mentioned it or someone before, don't be angry now that I'm going to mention it, in IPARD, the applicant doesn't have to be the landowner, but he can also be a longtime landowner. So, all these tools are available. Of course, it must be consistent with all the regulations regarding the certification of those contracts. Because of the public, I think it's very important to say this. We're going to promote this whole IPARD story in the coming months through guides, through field work, and we're going to watch as many apps as we can get. We have, not only in 2017, but also years behind it. Thank you very much. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, from the post: Just one more question. Half a minute. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10153	You're out of time. The word has been made by the People's MP Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10154	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, supporting everything that our authorised representative Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic said and what MP Ivan Karic of Green Serbia said, I will refer first and foremost to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Dear People's MPs, the 2017 Ministry of Agriculture budget has been increased by 8.11% and is an expression of the desire to continue with the start of agricultural reforms. The focus of the agrarian budget for 2017 is on the sector of investment, investment, grants for the purchase of equipment, machinery and facilities for the construction and reconstruction of processing facilities. Agriculture is of paramount importance for Serbia's economy. Increasing the competitiveness of the sector is one of the country's priority objectives. Agro business in general participates in creating a gross domestic product with over 20%. Additional agriculture with the food industry is the only branch of the Serbian economy that has achieved a positive balance in external trade and has continued since 2005, with a steady trend in growth. Agrar is the most important comparative advantage and great developmental opportunity of our country. However, there is no development without large investments. To exploit the huge potential of Serbian agriculture, it was necessary to increase the agrarian budget, which has been done. The agricultural subsidies are set at 3.2 billion, and the largest increase, as the minister said today, is in the investment support work for the next year at 2.2 billion, four times more than it was in the previous year. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection led by the minister, now former Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in the course of two years, has proposed 22 laws for 22 months, and all in order to create a legal framework, encourage the development of agriculture in Serbia and we have managed to record the growth of agricultural exports by 50%. As for livestock products, in the last 15 years, we have been faced with frequent market disturbances. The goods fund in Serbia has been reduced by two to three percent a year in the last decades. Fortunately, in the past year, that trend of decline has stopped. We have set out to stabilise and grow the stock fund, which is also the result of good incentive measures for cattle farmers, which this government and the Ministry of Agriculture have taken in previous years. It should be pointed out that if we want to stabilise the domestic market and increase exports, then, in addition to the increased livestock stock, we must also ensure quality. Our producers need to know that only extra-quality milk can be produced in the European Union, and we have only 35%. In 2015 meat production increased in almost all sectors, pigmeat production by 8% compared to 2014 and sheepmeat production is 11% higher than in 2014. Also, milk production has seen a slight increase in the last two years. Thanks to the determined measures of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, in the previous few years, premium payments have been provided, incentives for quality milk throats, levies for imports of milk and sour milk products protected by domestic producers from unfair competition, an intervention purchase of surplus milk from milk farmers has been provided in order to free the space for the smooth milk supply of small producers, increased exports of milk and milk products to the Russian Federation market. In particular, cheese exports increased by 25% compared to 2014 in 2015. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for directing incentives in the field of direct payments for livestock production to a wider circle of users, since new categories are proposed and incentives for cows and for the cultivation of tov calves. Amendments and additions to the law specify the duties of users of incentives and specify the provisions relating to the return of money, the payment of tight interest and the reduction of subsequent payments to the user of incentives. Encouragement in livestock farming is extended to high-quality tow bulls, cows for growing calves for tov, quality breeding rams, goats and quality breeding negrets. The draft law provides that the person who has achieved the incentives for the suckler cows cannot exercise the right to incentives for milk premiums. The law provides that incentives to support programmes related to improving competitiveness also include incentives to establish and strengthen the association in the area of agriculture precisely for small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and to increase their competitiveness could be of exceptional benefit to establish or join an association. I hope the manufacturers see it and take advantage of it. I'd like to set a good example. In the populated town of Bačka Dobro Polje last year, between 50 and 60 hectares of raspberries were planted, and this year it is already 80 hectares. They've organized themselves and they've formed an association. They managed to organize a daily buy-in and pay-out on a daily basis, getting a price that was ten dinars higher than the one in the environment. When we take that data that I could get from them, that one hectare takes ten employees in the picking season, you can think of how important it is for the environment from which I come. The following year, more than 10 people per hectare who will need to work will be in the second year, and they plan to form cooperatives from the association and thus earn even greater profits when it comes to raspberries producers. The aim of the proposed changes and additions is to expand the circle of beneficiaries of the republican budget, as I said, and besides those mentioned, support should also be given to young farmers, particularly in eastern and southern Serbia, according to the agriculture minister. There are nearly 4,600 villages in Serbia today, and each fourth or 1,200 is on the way to disappearance. Villages are extinct and all potential needs to be used to stop these negative trends in the Serbian village. I can tell you that in Vojvodina, we have the case that family agricultural holdings are families with the most children and on average have three to four children, so these legal provisions, which encourage young farmers, will also contribute to population policy. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10155	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10156	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, Green Serbia, as members of the SPS parliamentary club, will support proposed laws that were on the agenda today. What I noticed today was that there were few words about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. I don't think that's good. In some ways, it is a signal that a new environment ministry, i.e. natural resources and environmental protection, should be formed, where water as a resource will be in the ministry. Although the reason for the adoption of the law states that the primary objective of this law is to comply with EU rules, I think it is also important to clarify the inaccuracies and inaccuracies of some members of the old law. Also, the aim of this law is to avoid overlapping competences between water-management public enterprises and to ensure integrated management of this resource. This law does not directly but indirectly influence the development of economic activity in the water area. By examining the effects of laws and procedures that were represented in the public debate, suggestions and proposals from other ministries, public enterprises, directors, NGOs, to conclude that the legislator of this text had taken care of all aspects so as not to distort the interests of the profession and the state, while also enabling economic development in the water areas. In the course of the debate itself, as the legislator described in the text, there were different proposals. It was as if, for example, a water construction project did not require the consent of a public water company managing the water area, but only a building permit was needed. However, the legislator did not accept such a proposal and remained in his view that it was unfavourable for the water industry. The Socialist Party of Serbia and Serbia and Green Serbia have given importance to these changes and additions and say that their Law on Waters is in line with the laws and regulations that have been passed after it, thus creating conditions for better water management with a view to better water protection, water use and water protection. These changes and additions create conditions to speed up the process of issuing construction permits in the water sector. Also, the adoption of this law regulates the availability and management of water land, which is very important, given that significant economic activities are being carried out on waterland. The Socialist Party of Serbia and Green Serbia thinks that this law proposes a good solution by abolishing Belgrade's water area, which is positive, because in the existing administrative area of the city of Belgrade, integrated management of the water areas of Sava, Danube and Morava was not possible and could not be managed in accordance with water regulations, EU directives and domestic practice. In practice, it has been seen that the absence of integrated functioning creates problems. This may be a sensitive issue with regard to water management between the city and the Republic, but this is now such a solution, and we think it is a good solution that will continue to function and function and that all sides in this part will be satisfied, because this law creates only two water companies, the Public Enterprise "Vojvodvod" and the Public Enterprise "Serbia". This solution exists in forestry, where only two public enterprises – the Public Enterprise "Serbiasum" and the Public Enterprise "Vojvodinasum" are qualified for forest management in the territory of the entire Republic. Green Serbia is very positive about these changes in the law and that the competent ministry will ensure that two very important documents are drawn up, which is a map of Serbia's erosion and the determination of erosion areas. The first map of Serbia's erosion and the only one ever made was made between 1968 and 1974, printed in 1975. The map was developed by the Institute of Forestry, and the map of erosion is a very significant indicator of the state and loss of the country. Land erosion affects the environment and is considered one of the largest water pollutants. The result of land erosion is lush flows and lush floods. Because of all this, it's important that every country has a map of erosion and it's a good solution in this law that only after a new 40 years we make a new map of erosion, that it's now done in walking. The legal solution is that every six years a map of erosion is reviewed and every ten years to be inoculated. A little while ago, it was a proposal from one of the MPs to allocate funds from ten million dinars to produce a map of erosion, a good wish as an amendment, with these funds very small, and a map of erosion is a serious job and it could not be done, almost a tenth of the map of erosion. A map of erosion has helped, in addition to other bases, to develop significant development plans, spatial plans, urban plans of different levels and investment projects. As a result, it is very important that each municipality adopt a plan for the demarcation of erotic areas in which landowners will use their parcels in accordance with the prescribed method of preventing erosion. Making these plans, with operational plans to defend against the floods of municipalities, is an important prerequisite for preventing floods. Once again, let me just say that Green Serbia and the SPS parliamentary group will vote on these three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10157	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10158	Chairman, thank you. Just one brief clarification I remained in debt to a colleague who spoke about the map of erosion, Nadi Lazic. In the 2017 budget, we provided funds for this map. It is a very important tool to be able to implement game rules through the planning acts later, so that there is no construction in areas where there is land that is prone to erosion. So, in 2017, funds were provided for this type of business. I think it's very important to say. That, I hope, will put a watershed from the time it was built on spaces that were subject to erosion compared to what was going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10159	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Your group's time is four minutes and 35 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10160	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs in the hall, by gaining candidate status in March 2012, gave Serbia the opportunity to fund IPA funds for agriculture and rural development. Amendments and additions to this law relate to provisions governing the work of the Agency for Agricultural Payments. The agricultural development strategy was adopted in 2014, which was also discussed by the former agriculture minister, monitors the development of countries in the environment and returns to small agricultural land and encourages it to produce. What's the thing that bothers our farmers the most? First, the lack of money, secondly, knowledge of what will be profitable for production in what year, what will be the price of what it will produce, the product, and to whom it will sell. The data I found for 2010 is an example of sugar tails, where 70,968 hectares were sown with a yield of about three million 556 tonnes and examples of sugar beet production in 2015, where 42,123 hectares were sown and about 2,200 tonnes, tells us that manufacturers do not have a safe placement of goods, do not have a safe price, that sugar imports or raw materials or sugar, so producers do not have enough market for themselves. This is just one isolated example of the apropo of what we're talking about today. Therefore, the good side of this law is to create conditions for the predictability of agrarian policy, i.e. that the agricultural producer be informed in time of the planned measures. Next thing you know, it's an incentive for cooperatives. Although the Cooperatives Act was passed more than a year ago, it has not yet come into practice, especially in the agriculture sector. In cooperative society, there's a great chance that every small producer, no matter how much they produce, can place goods. The aim of these measures is to make small country owners bigger. I think it's an idea, and we talked yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, Minister. Small holdings do not represent burdens, nor do they represent social cases and are practically self-sustaining. However, some local self-governments, we talked all day today about this, ministers, were very involved and some local self-governments recognized this problem. I would like to mention the case of the Svilajnac municipality, which has been investing backwards for years and helping its agricultural producers first and foremost by giving unambiguous loans. In 2016 alone, 100 loans worth 300 000 dinars were applied. Then, the Agricultural Development Fund that invests in education and equipment to double production both in vegetables and in livestock, and now we open and work on a new branch, i.e. organic production that is ideal for these small and medium-sized land. Speaking of the maritime area and when I talk about the Svilajnac municipality, the crown of this work is a Agricultural Veterinary School with the home of students and is one of the best agricultural schools in Serbia. So we look at it, as well as other agricultural schools in Serbia, as a nursery for young people, young farmers, which we need to support. These agricultural schools had almost their own income. Since last year, the new Law on... I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm talking to you, and I'd like an explanation after this, so if it's no problem, here's the end of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10161	You're bringing the end, colleague Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10162	So, with two sentences, but we're the minister to hear, because I'd like an explanation. She talked only about the Agricultural Veterinary School in Svilinc, as one of the best schools. The problem concerns other agricultural schools, because we treat them, as a nursery for young people and young farmers. Since last year, they have their own incomes, which these schools have had, and schools have their own incomes because they have their own economies. So, those revenues are going back to the budget. It was the same as when you earn your salary, then you give it to your parents, and they give you your allowance. In this problem are now all agricultural schools in Serbia, so the law has since last year... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10163	Thank you, colleagues. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while, it's about high school agriculture. About three weeks ago, or four, together, Minister Sarcevic and I held a meeting with the heads of secondary agricultural schools, for one simple reason we want to point out their importance and we want to include them in the whole system. So far, most of them have only been communicated by people in education, and from agriculture a little bit. I think it's very important that we include them in this entire system of ours that we plan to implement. On the other hand, the issue of dual education, which Minister Sarcevic spoke of several times, is very important and we want to implement it in agriculture-related schools, especially this school that you have highlighted is one of the feathers of the whole process. The story of my own income, with Minister Sarčević, I'll talk to you. I hope we find a solution. It is very important to make sure that what is the revenue of the budget has to be, but we will look at it as we know it and we are able to stimulate those schools that work well and have extra resources, or produce value, much greater than they do in other places.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10165	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10166	Dear Ministers, with co-workers, the chairman, the MPs, the politics of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, is not an economic isolation policy, it is important to tell the citizens, but what we have experienced in the past 16 years, in terms of agricultural policy, gives us the absolute right to suspect that the policy that has been led so far can give some shifts in agriculture in the future. What is being introduced into this law, and what I do not think is essential to the rebirth of Serbian agriculture, are things that are imposed only as EU conditions. So, the problems of cooperatives, the problems of unsolved agricultural land, the problems that people kill each year in fields that they own, are the essential problems that we need to solve. The problems of European funds, which are now being imposed, which we have not been able to exploit since 2012, we also had funds before the SAA from some countries in Japan and Norway for Serbian agriculture, which have benefited our farmers. So farmers in any case will hardly succeed in getting what out of these funds, especially small and medium-sized farmers who, as we've heard, won't even be able to compete on these funds, because they don't have funds in the account. They are unable to compete for large funds and the question of who will receive revenue from these funds. It is most likely that they will only succeed in getting large agricultural producers, not Serbian, small, medium-sized farmers. A solution to the problem that could currently be for Serbian agriculture, which is the formation of a development investment bank. We've had our chance here today to hear one of the people's MPs who has an extremely rich experience in managing a combination in the north of Backa, and we know that this combination and its workers, as they've been through, that we don't need a farm home bank today. Not only do the Russians have a farm home bank that we could look up to because the state of our agriculture may be similar to the state of Russian agriculture in 2000, but I would remind the citizens that many serious Asian countries have developmental investment banks that give credit to certain segments of the economy without interest. So this is also the point of the Serbian Dveri movement, and it suggests that these funds planned in the billion dinar budget for IPARD funds are invested in the establishment of a Serbian development investment bank that would provide assistance and would raise our entire agricultural industry, agricultural small producers to the level that we can be competitive. Like this, I'm afraid this money will go into the hands of large agricultural combinations. tycoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10167	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10168	I thank the chairman. I'd just like to take a few things out. We are changing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development where we are implementing these IPARD procedures, not because of the EU, we are doing this for ourselves. It is very important that we learn to operate by this model that has proved to be good in a bunch of countries, as fruitful, and if there is anything in the EU you can mark as good, it is a common agricultural policy. One of the tools is precisely this way to get grants. We are not in the Ministry of Agriculture limited only to this kind of means, and we, compared to daily, manage communication with other sources, possible sources of funding. I will give an example that exclusively referred to small and medium-sized agricultural producers. It was a project we worked with the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark. The project was called fritts and barberries and was focused on the development of fruiting and berries and berries in southern Serbia's area, i.e. five districts in the area. He gave fantastic results and went by a similar procedure as the IPARD. I'll name just one thing, purely picturesque. When I was in Žitoradja and went to see how these projects were realized, 120 farmers, small farmers, I talked to them, not some people who have 500 thousand hectares of land but those who deal with fruit growing, 120 of them used funds that go according to the full principle as IPARD was just another source of funding, where the same Republic of Serbia had their part, they obtained tractors for their fruit production. It is by these principles that we have installed about amendments to the Encouragement Act, according to the same tool that proved to be good. For example, in the space of Osecini and Koceljev, we didn't have that tool at our disposal. In seven, in five years, seven new tractors were registered and in Žitoraj 120, a total of almost 250 in the entire area of the five districts. What do I want to say? All the tools and all the resources at our disposal, we will benefit. Today, during the debate, some MPs also talked about some of Turkey's development agency, which implemented some projects, all that is available to Serbian farmers, we will absorb if it is in their favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10169	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10170	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, through the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, among other things, will create conditions for directing incentives in the area of direct payments for livestock production to a wider circle of users. Since the proposed act includes new categories of users, through changes in existing and setting up new support schemes in the context of direct payments. Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development is amended in Article 10. The Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development in such a way as to specify the duties of users of incentives and to specify the provisions relating to the return of money. Payment of the tightened interest and reduction of the next payment to the user of the incentive if within 30 days of the eligibility of the solution which determines the obligation of the user of the incentive does not return the money. Article 7. The draft law shall be amended in accordance with Article 33. The Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development relating to the reduction of direct payments by prescribing that the reduction within the prescribed limits is made only for amounts which exceed the prescribed limits and based on the decision of the Director of Administration. It shall also be prescribed that if the beneficiary of the incentives on the basis of direct payments for one calendar year is paid more than the amount obtained by the calculation, the surplus shall be reduced from the payment of direct payments for the next calendar year, and if that is not possible or not enough, the user of the incentive shall be obliged to repay the surplus of cash within 60 days of the date of receipt of the solution. The draft amendments to the law stipulates that the incentive to support programmes relating to the conservation and improvement of the environment and natural resources also includes incentives for sustainable use of agricultural land, organic production, sustainable use of forest resources, conservation of plant and animal genetic resources, as well as the preservation of agricultural and other high-value areas. It is also prescribed that the right to this kind of incentive has a legal face, an entrepreneur and a physical face bearer of the commercial family agricultural land that is registered in the register. This proposal will also enable countries to improve the quality of life of rural areas by providing support for various incentives to invest in improving and developing rural infrastructure, improving economic activities in the countryside through support for non-agricultural activities, supporting young people in rural areas and implementing activities to raise competitiveness. Since the planning of agricultural production for the next production cycle by agricultural producers starts at the end of January, it is of utmost importance that the law and the accompanying sub-legislative regulations enter into force in good time and fully by the beginning of 2017 and enables the definition of the measure of agrarian policy to be implemented in the coming period. In this way, conditions will be created for policy predictability, i.e. agricultural producers as direct beneficiaries of appropriations based on the scale of agrarian policy will be familiar with the planned measures of agrarian policy so that they can plan production for the next production cycle and, accordingly, make production decisions. The amendments to this law which will affect manufacturers engaged in warfare, producers engaged in vegetable production, then fruit growing, livestock farming, livestock farming, fishing, producers involved in the production of plants and organised animal production will have a positive impact on the end from which I come. Since there is a Pesterska visorvan, Golia Mountains and Rogozna in the vicinity of Novi Pazar, where locals of rural areas are mainly known for the farming of cattle and dairy production, and I believe that my fellow citizens will benefit greatly from the adoption of these amendments to the law. It is of paramount importance that this law on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development be adopted as soon as possible and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10171	Thank you. The People's MP Nenad Christmas is not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10172	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen, my smallness will say a few sentences about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. Before that, allow me, Mr. Minister with associates, to express my gratitude for seeing you more and more frequently in this high house, you and your associates, of course, is talking about you and your dedicated work, as well as about your ministry and government as a whole. And this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development has its standoffs in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who presented to us the MPs, as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 9 August 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you, especially the citizens of Serbia, and in particular the two journalists, journalist Kesic and journalist Ivanovic, that the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most transparent, most precise, most thorough, the largest, 260 sides, and thus the best of all 73 previous exposés of the Prime Minister of Serbia starting from the first exhibition of Prime Minister Matija Nenadovic's 1805 until today. Gentlemen, you who throw out the opposition, I lied, check, you have it in the archives. I quote the exposés of the President of the Government of Mr. Alexander Vukic in 2014 in an international magazine on the "Schigo List" in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first time in Serbia's modern history that one of the exposés of one Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is quoted in a prestigious international magazine. The faithful Radeta, from the place, are still applauding him. ) Take that training, colleague, home with you tonight. On the page of the 40th Expoze of the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic writes, quote – The government will continue negotiations with the EU by respecting the basic principles of European agricultural policy, and in particular by taking care of the interests of our farmers, finished the quote. I am pleased, Mr Minister, that one part of the MPs today quoted the exposés of the Prime Minister, because in all modern modern states the exposé of every Prime Minister is actually a program, and that is what every MP in every European Parliament carries in a bag every day. As far as ours are concerned, let them do their own grades on whether they're wearing it or maybe they left it somewhere on the side. Here, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's what our Prime Minister Alexander Vukic does in a system rarely seen in our political culture, and that system is, I will explain it, I would like to be denied by someone, especially one MP from the opposition who smiles. The system is written, spoken, accomplished. Prime Minister Vukic wrote, as you can see from the quote in the exhibition on page 40, that there will be a change in the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and said it on 9 August 2016 in this high house, in front of us and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and achieved it, gentlemen, here it is before you today. I hope you vote for him in a day or two when we vote. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in March 2012, the Republic of Serbia gained candidate status and thus the possibility of using financial resources, components of IPARD funds intended for agriculture and rural development. Therefore, the basic and inevitable condition of use is the decentralised management system. The Agrarian Payments Administration is part of the decentralised system, as some MPs have noted today. The internal procedures of the Agrarian Payments Administration will be assessed by the European Commission and these procedures must be in line with EU requirements and that is our task and we hope to meet this task very quickly. It is therefore necessary to amend the existing legal framework, so that the procedure of the Agrarian Payments Administration does not conflict with the provisions of national law. The amendments to the laws on agricultural land and rural development also relate to provisions governing the procedure of the Agrarian Payments Administration in respect of the funds allocated to the IPARD Fund. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I am particularly speaking to you, although I would not, by procedure, apologize to you in some way for the untruths that you are today, my smallness has not left the assembly here, spoken of, even though you have very well denied it. However, the fact that agricultural production has not increased, and it has increased by 7%. He didn't find it appropriate, and he's sitting right by me, the MP to apologize. It is an integral part of the political culture of every MP. The government has been said to bring "Tenis" from Germany, but it is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which you have denied. Of course it's in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and the gentleman is sitting right by me in opposition. If the government had no vision of agriculture, total untruth or, as our people would say, lie. Mr. Minister's vision, in which you spoke, stands in the exposé of the Prime Minister and you emphasized it and the MP did not find it appropriate to look at his government's programme, because he often says – your government, whose statement I'm shocked by, I guess, is his, too, they're our opposition, they're probably not someone else's. That Alexander Vukic is the undertaker of agricultural policy, it's just the other way around. So the only government has tried in some way to get the country out of the crisis, or in the area of agriculture. One former regime minister criticised you, Mr. Minister, and the former minister, and he was Minister of Agriculture and was known only for a year, believe it or not, he allowed 250,000 cows to be slaughtered in 500 thousand. That's what the state auditor quoted, and unfortunately for us he was also the minister of justice and destroyed the justice system, behind him was nothing but a wasteland, not to tell him here in the face, because he's usually not here, but when he says his basic thoughts that are not usually true. One of the presidents of one minor party has said so many false things today, and it is known only that through the reflection of this high house he came down to the attic of the National Assembly and pressured RIK and rotated one lady's hand, and the same thing is known for being a hero...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10173	Go back to the subject, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10174	Let me just say, afterwards he was cursing, to say the truth, he was famous for being a prodigal in KIM in 2004, for hiding a hero between books in a library. Now, believe it or not, I'll come back, Mr. Vice President, just to say that he often does that, both to the Prime Minister and to the government and to me, I have to tell you why he does it. Since the professor, I've heard, I don't know if, the truth of Serbian language and literature has invented an eighth decline called "slutting". Let's return, honourable MPs, to this law. If they did not accept the amendments and additions of this Agricultural and Rural Development Act, Serbia would not comply with the rules, but neither would the deadlines set by our country's agreements with the European Commission. These rules and deadlines are in line with the provisions of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission under the rules for implementing financial assistance. Serbia will be able to handle the affairs of the Agency for Agricultural Payments and Development in good time through the adoption of this agriculture law. As far as the second law is concerned, allow only one sentence of incentives in agriculture and rural development to say. Its application creates conditions to guide incentives in the area of direct payments for livestock production and to a wider circle of users, our citizens. Therefore, this proposed law includes new categories of users through the change of existing and the establishment of new support schemes in the framework of direct payments, i.e. incentives in livestock production, and incentives for cows for farmed calves. In the end, I invite you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to vote for this set of laws. I especially invite you, gentlemen, to have a little tonight from the opposition benches to make your contribution, at least a little, even in this way, to modernise the Republic of Serbia for which it stands, and not only to advocate, but also to carry out our Prime Minister, the entire government, most of the MPs in this high house, and also to the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and most citizens, I hope, the Republic of Serbia. On that behalf, thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10175	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović and Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. A colleague Atlagic only mentioned MPs sitting right from him. (Bosko Obradovic throws. I don't know that you worked at the library. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I am pleased to discuss this subject today, but we are sorry to speak without proper preparation, or a time period necessary for these three significant laws. Secondly, we have not heard that an organisation of farmers has considered this issue and that it has given its opinion on the proposed laws, and we have also not heard, which is common in the EU, that any reference scientific, professional organisation or institution has considered this issue and given its courts on it. At the beginning, I would like to thank my colleague Bogosavljevic Boskovic for correcting one of the inaccuracies here, which is that Serbia does not have a strategy for the development of agriculture and rural areas. She does. It was adopted in 2014 and is valid until 2024, as Serbia was planned to join the EU until then, and only then will Serbia join the EU. What Serbia doesn't have... Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you and I'm asking you to... Mr. Chairman, can you stop my time? So, what Serbia doesn't have, and it didn't have during the ministry, co-worker Boskovic Bogosavljevic and it doesn't have for these 100 days, as long as it is a short period of time, there are two key documents on which agrarian and rural policies are being conducted. There is no national programme for the development of agriculture based on this strategy and no national rural development programme. It's the same as having a ship on the ocean high without compasses, maps, without the captain knowing how to look at constellations. In addition, we have 15 captains in 15 years at the helm of our Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, it is an extremely bad situation. What are we talking about today? Mr. Minister, be nice, I've been listening very carefully, I've been working all day, and so have you, to endure all this effort. So, what are we talking about today? We're talking about three laws. Let's talk about the first law - Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. I accept that everything that needs to be brought into line with European legislation in the use of pre-accession funds should be incorporated, and that is not disputed. So on the Agriculture Committee, I gave my consent, in principle, to this law. However, in this law, you did not accept any suggestion that I proposed on the Committee, even one that would have to be found, not in the law, but in the systematicisation of the jobs of the Agrarian Payments Authority, which refers to the controller. You're a lawyer, you should do it better than me to know, I just passed one law school exam, but I'm confident that that provision is not the place in the law. Take it back, I'm telling you. What are we talking about? We are talking about 175,000 euros in funds for seven years or 25,000,000 euros a year. Twenty-five million euros annually on 631,522 agricultural holdings listed in 2012. Do you know how much that is, Mr. Minister? That's it, I'll tell you now, just a moment. That, Mr. Minister, is 277 euros per land. So, it's absurd to talk about investment, and by landline, it's 277 euros. But when we take this, these programs won't include more than 3% of the total number of agricultural holdings, and these are approximately those holdings that have over 20 hectares of land, and on top of that, to these agricultural enterprises with tens of thousands of hectares. If we single them out, it's 19,000 landlords, when 175,000 thousand are divided, that's 9,236 euros. It is less than the budget of the Republic of Serbia is financed by one employee to foreign investors. Is that the development of agriculture? Next, you said Mr. Minister, there's no credit, there's no mortgage. Explain to me, please, if we have a report from the last session, or some session of the Committee on Agriculture, that only 1.8% of registered agricultural holdings used regressed loans with far less interest in the subsidy system. Where will they find the funds? So people aren't creditworthy. What are they going to finance the entire investment with, then wait for those funds to be recovered? So, no speech, no credit. On the second Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, Amendments and Supplements, I expected you to propose a revolutionary amendment and supplement, which is to return subsidies to the level that was in 2014. Please, with 4,000 euros
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10177	You're bringing the end of your colleague Shevarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10178	... 400,000 dinars per hectare, just to finish the sentence, that's just as much as a farmer to pay for taxes and excise taxes, for 50 liters of fuel and for 200 kilos of fertilizer. Therefore, the state does not subsidize those 4,000, but re-funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10179	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10180	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, today during the debate, I spoke several times about why we went through the urgency procedure with this law, and I think yesterday and on the Committee that we agreed on why amendments and amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development are necessary to go according to emergency procedures. The other thing was about IPARD, was that even the case in these concrete changes? That was so much talked about in the previous years, if I thought that any public debate regarding IPARD would have told us the same thing we've heard so far. Many took part in this, in the previous period, when a colleague led this ministry, numerous public debates, numerous conversations with farmers, with associations were, so I don't think it really stands in this part. As for national rural development programmes and the national agriculture programme, they are prepared, they will go into procedure. I think it is very important, because of the public, to say that the previous ministry, the previous ministry and this ministry, are working on that everything envisaged by the Agriculture Development Strategy is to be adopted, implemented and that it will be pillars based on which the entire concept of agriculture will function. I think it is important to stress that there is a consistency and that there is a trace in the activities, both through IPARD and through these tools that are being adopted on the basis of the Strategy. As for what you suggested on the board yesterday, I don't think it's right that we're talking about it in principle now, because through the amendments you'll see what we've accepted and what we haven't. Then that's the subject of conversation. You've had specific suggestions regarding persons who can work at the Agrarian Payments Authority, on-site control. You'll see what we've accepted and what we'll accept. Thursday is about talking about it. As for those who will be able to use IPARD funds, they are those who have over two acres, depending on the type of measure. It's not just, as it's said, over 20, over 50, I don't know big ones, these or them. So, I think today, during the debate, a lot has been said on this subject. Serbia is getting ready for this. The funding has been allocated in the co-financing budget and I only expect that we will adopt amendments and additions to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act and one more thing, which stands in our way, to remove an additional source of funding from Serbian farmers. Thank you very much. (Miladin Ševarlic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10181	You don't have the right to a replica. Because you're not mentioned in any part in a negative context. [[Miladin Ševarlic, from the place: Why? You've all given a replica.)]] The minister answered your question. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Nedimovic and his associates. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic are the bearers of the changes necessary to address the challenges facing Serbia's overall agriculture. Aware of the need for changes, in order to improve the economic effects of the agricultural sector, the position of farmers, entrepreneurs, and the entire rural population, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has opted for a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The bill should be adopted by emergency procedure, in order to have, at the beginning of 2017, not only the law, but also the pre-legal regulation, which will clearly define the measures of agrarian policy. Agricultural producers will have the opportunity to be familiar with planned agricultural policy measures for next year and will be able to plan their production at the end of January. The amendments also prescribe types of incentives for rural development measures, which include support for improving market business, achieving quality standards, improving the competitiveness of agricultural holdings, preserving and improving the environment and natural resources, improving the quality of life in rural areas. At the same time, it allows local participants in rural development to improve the potential of their local environments in the long term through development and support in implementing local rural development strategies. There is also the possibility of developing technical and technological, applied, development and innovative projects in agriculture and rural development. Support is given by providing advice to agricultural producers, associations, cooperatives and other legal persons in agriculture. The proposal is an amendment to Article 36, which provides for the improvement of competitiveness to include incentives for investment, physical assets of agricultural land, a programme to support investments in plant and livestock production, the establishment and strengthening of associations in the field of agriculture, investment, processing and marketing of agricultural and food products and risk management. For example, up to now from the territory of the town of Leskovec, where I come from, an average of 4,000 requests are submitted annually for incentives for plant production, fertilizer, equipment and machinery, for fruit, vineyard, plastic and livestock production. Individual agricultural producers from the territory of the town of Leskovec have exercised the right to encourage the agriculture that has enabled the town of Leskovac to compete with the award of special funds. This proved the cabinet of mayor Dr. Goran Cvetanovic to run an active agricultural policy. Thus, more than 100 million dinars were allocated from the city register for the period from 2013 to 2016, and on behalf of incentives in agricultural production. These changes will allow for greater investment in agricultural production. At the same time, it will provide full support for the establishment of agricultural associations, which will increase competitiveness on the domestic and foreign markets, economics, production and improve the quality of agricultural products and better environmental protection. The amendment of Article 39, among other incentives, also provides incentives to support young people in rural areas, which is very important for creating a positive environment for the survival of young people in the country. Investments to improve and develop rural infrastructure contribute to improving the quality of life in rural areas. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the financial participation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection, Leskovac achieved three very important projects, and the ministry participated in some projects up to 70%. First, the restoration of the arrangements of the Atarian roads, the 144-populated project included 75, the value of the project at three years 42 million dinars, and a total of 140km of atar roads were recovered. The Ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% project value, and in 2016 with 47 of the project value. The second land-composation project, the project covered 1,100 hectares in three populated areas. The project's worth 22 million dinars. The project was implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The ministry took part with 70% of the total funds invested. The realisation of the project was achieved by 81%. The depletion of old so far, the quantum plantings of vines and fruit plantations. This project covers 165 hectares in three settlements, and the project's value is 29 million dinars. The ministry participated with 70% of the funds invested. The total area of agricultural land is successfully covered by geodetic works is 165 hectares. Finally, this bill also amends criminal provisions. They are necessary to prevent non-purpose use, alienation of incentives, and with a view to protecting agricultural producers investing in agricultural production and living from agriculture. Amendments and additions to this law shall clearly define the duties of users of incentive funds and specify the provisions relating to the return of money in the case where the user does not fully fulfil all the duties, which is quite understandable, as they are intended. That is why I am pleased to say that the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10183	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10184	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honored guests, the Honorable Chairman and, of course, respected MPs, it is very important that you understand that these maternal laws are based on the exposé of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, pages 38 and 61. This maternal relationship that the prime minister has and has made very clear to us in his exposé, in this sector is something that does not last only during his reign but rather something that dates much longer in the past. However, we do not have equal relations with all sectors here either. The minister responsible for all sectors means for the agriculture sector, environmental protection, water protection, as well as forest protection, we have again a maternal relationship with water, forests and environmental protection. In this exposé, we have heard that Chapter 27 relating to the protection of the environment in which this water law is very important today, that we have turned out to be the best students and that we have just not met all the conditions to receive us without any problems in the EU, since this is the goal of the ruling coalition. But it's an absolute lie. Mr. Nedimovic, you are the head of a very important ministry and I have to ask you a question – why continue this maternal relationship towards the water sector? Do you think all sectors in your ministry are treated equally? Do you think it is right that the funds for water supply facilities and wastewater treatment facilities, for medium cities defined by this law, should be rerouted by budget to the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Infrastructure? When projects from the water sector are subject to all the necessary conditions and consent of the Water Directorate, in whose jurisdiction are the facilities mentioned, if they are part of the Ministry of Agriculture? I don't think so. Watery, like all natural resources, we don't own ourselves in the right way. The consequences of this negativity were rightly felt in 2014, the floods that were in 2014 and then the director of the Public Water Company "Serbia" told us that only God can help us. Of course, God can only help us when you, as minister today, declare that the stoves, the shell of the car, are guilty of spilling some water streams. So this should not have been taken care of and managed, but those shells and some parts of these terrible citizens of Serbia and the inhabitants have contributed to the consequences as much as possible. I think you're a serious man, I can see that you've been giving answers here to everyone's questions, and I don't think that such a thing is absolutely appropriate in answer to the MPs who asked you that question. This law abolished the public water company "Belgrade" established by the 2010 law and that is what I can commend. Not good, colleagues from the AP Vojvodina will probably not be satisfied with my thinking, that the old administrative division of water management and water care, of Vojvodina and central Serbia has been detained. These are the Public Water Company "Vojvodvod" and the Public Water Business "Serbia" (Serbijavod). You have made a statement here on compliance with EU rules. So this administrative division you've given, it's not a division by EU regulations and it's not a division that's much more important than that, which is good for water management. It needs to be divided by plums. Among other things, the law introduces new concepts such as public water supply and rural water supply. The public water supplying more than 50 inhabitants, does not define anything further, are they permanent or occasionally populated residents, are they internal or external users, are tourist facilities attached to it? So that's something that's total fog. So, for 50 residents, what about the water lines that have 49 inhabitants? I didn't see it anywhere in the law. Introduces the concept of a rural water pipeline that needs to be met absolutely does not know what criteria. All in all, a lot of unknowns and indefinities. This practically marks the existing situation and restores the old practice that local self-government has nothing to do with supplying water to residents outside municipal and urban centres. Instead of strengthening public utility companies and continuing local self-government to address the problems of water supplying all residents in the municipality, for which the necessary funds should be provided through increased water prices and full water collection, as well as through various kinds of incentives, the state is thus ablibrating them from this obligation without any indication that this should be resolved at all. So there's a lot of things that are unclear and a lot of things are left to get rid of on their own. There's a problem with water collection and the price of water at the bar or anywhere. Well, of course there is, the networks are in bad shape. It would be so much smarter if you were in the web modeling business. We're losing up to 80% on the water network. So, produced water and delivered water, net losses are 80%. It's a serious approach. The decentralisation of resources from the water compensation, introduced by this law, on the one hand allows solving some of the problems at the bar. However, these funds are absolutely insufficient to talk about any capital investment. What can we talk about about regional water systems, for example, like the Rzav-Arilje regional water system? It is the only fully implemented regional system that supplies water to Arile, Požega, Lucana, Cačak and Gornji Milanovac. Five municipalities joined together, 91% financed the project themselves, and the state participated with 9%, but the regional system cannot work fully. It can't be because you have to build a dam on Big Rzav, or what you would say in a local accent -- Big Rzav. I usually respect local accentes. So, why can't it be built in the partitional place of the Magpie? Because you pay four million euros per year for that dam, i.e. You're predicting. It's just that in 20 years, you'll be grateful to the grandkids of people who should be using that water right now, at best for 20 years, where the HYD from Cačka Zalauf, starts working, stops, waits for six months of new money, and you collect one investment by 40%. That's how you run the waters. I really can't imagine it. The budget, therefore, identified funds only for this purpose, has been defined for the end of the Rovi dam and for the line of mud treatment plant in Šapec. Much larger funds are defined by the budget in the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and Infrastructure, for this type of project. It absolutely shouldn't be like that. You know who's supposed to be running the waters, and you know how one whole should be circled. In my opinion, since we are currently going towards the Law on Community Works, which is as far as tomorrow in the procedure, this Water Act, and the Proposal for a Law on Private Partnership and concessions, which is also on the agenda today, if we cross those three laws, we will reach the common denominator, and the common denominator is partnership, partnership over our resources. In such partnerships, experience has shown that the Republic of Serbia is always in a vassal relationship. So, the Republic of Serbia is on its territory in a vassal relationship and a loser. That one serious government and one serious ministry, specifically here, should absolutely not allow it. Since Serbia is a signatorious country of the Water Protocol and hastening the path of European integration, as well as the opening of this chapter 27 in the field of environmental protection, where attention is paid to water, it can be said with great certainty that these chapters will actually be the biggest stumbling block in the EU accession. Therefore, Minister Nedimovic, I ask you to break the practice of motherly relations with the Water, Forest and environmental protection sector and treat them equally with agriculture that I do not neglect, on the contrary, which I believe should also be treated even better. I hope you understand that there is a mechanism in your hands to protect the good part of the valuable natural resources of the Republic of Serbia, and this is a huge responsibility and you really shouldn't be deaf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10185	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we are already in the eleventh hour of the debate on these three draft laws and it is very good that the story is drawn in one way about the system and water management in Serbia's space. I think if the first three laws to enter the procedure in the term of this ministry are one that is very important, which are amendments to the Water Law, I don't think we can talk about the maternal relationship. In terms of the quality of individual solutions, this is to be discussed, but surely the water system, or the whole concept of water management, cannot be respected for the simple reason that we have put an accent on this matter. On the other hand, it is much more important here to point out the need to develop awareness of water streams. I'll tell you one thing from the experience in the city where I live. There were 40 years ago some great people, smart people built flood protection systems. Then we all thought, the consciousness was so built that it could never happen to us in 2014, or that such a thing would never happen. I'm saying this for one simple reason, because our awareness of the importance of water was suppressed in another plan, because many of us didn't even remember the last floods that were in Serbia's space, and so large. That's what's important, and we have to cultivate it from school and then on. It's just amazing what I could see these days. Some simple things that a man would think everyone should know, a bunch of people didn't know, because they had no awareness of the importance of water and awareness of the danger of water. I insist on it for a simple reason because we have to fight. Climate change is such that we have to invest a lot in the prevention system and we have to fight this way. As for the management of hydrographic plums, it is one of the essentials of this regulation, these amendments and the addition of the Water Act. Today, several times during the debate, I emphasized why this is important, above all, in order to manage a waterway in a good way. As far as the environment is concerned, there are no criteria set for us in this area. One of the four areas in which the Ministry of Agriculture is in charge of negotiating with the EU is, among other things, Chapter 27 on the environment. There is still a need to finish the action plan and we are ready to open this chapter. It's going to be the hardest chapter, the hard chapter will be, but it's a chapter that's very, very, very capacity-oriented, ready to be opened. As far as other things are concerned, I think everything in this ministry is important, there's no telling what's more important than what, whether agriculture, whether water, whether it's water talking, so I think we've made our priorities clear by running today at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10187	The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10188	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the amendment and addition of the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development will allow, above all, the use of IPARD funds of 175m euros at Serbia's disposal. These changes and additions are a prerequisite for opening Chapter 11 in the area of agriculture. The law represents one big step forward and a complete integration of European standards into the system of our agriculture functioning. As for the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, the aim is to extend the number of beneficiaries of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget above all in the livestock sector. Incentives have so far been given to registered agricultural households, while agricultural holdings that grow cows that are not wrapped up for their throats had no incentive. The aim of these incentives is to maintain the existing number of cows that are the base for the production of calves for the towing and production of juniper meat, which market analyses say have a growing trend of demand, both in the environment and in the world. Also, these amendments and additions to the law introduce support measures for young agricultural producers, especially in the devastated regions, which see their lives and existence in the countryside and in agricultural production. By means of grants in the form of start-up funds for certain investments, agricultural holdings should improve, i.e. diversify their production and thus ensure self-employment and existence for their families. Incentives are also planned to develop a specific approach in planning rural development through the formation of local action groups that represent a public-private partnership to improve life in rural areas. The government's goal is to increase the volume of investments aimed precisely at improving living and working conditions in rural areas, and through changes and additions to this law, order and alignment is being introduced with the classification of rural development measures in the EU. As regards the third draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, there are several reasons why these amendments and additions have been approached. Since 2010, we have had several system laws, such as the Law on Public Property and the Law on Planning and Construction, which do not give quality solutions in how to manage this area. The Law on Public Property refers to a special law regarding the availability and management of water land, while the Water Act did not contain provisions on this, while in the Law on Planning and Construction, as regards the unification of procedures, our existing Water Act did not contain elements in that part. By amending the Water Act, public authority holders are the Water Directorate or at the level of Vojvodina's provincial authorities. With this change, they are obliged to collect information for the adoption of water acts. Other amendments and additions to this law relate to the removal of the shortcomings observed in the application of this law. Instead of administrative management, management is introduced by plums, then the obligation to adopt a water management plan, where water land borders are introduced through spatial and urban plans. Another newspaper is that the Tax Administration will no longer determine the methodology and billing of the collection fee. This will be the responsibility of a public water company. These amendments and additions to the Water Act allow the harmonisation of national legislation in the area of water with EU rules, as well as the provision of a legal basis for further implementation of different regulations. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the proposed changes and additions of these laws because they have a positive impact on the development of rural areas in our country and we believe it will help farmers live better than the work they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10189	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10190	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Serbian citizens, we have three important legal solutions today, two in the area of agriculture, one in the area of water. A lot has already been said today during the debate. I'll try to cut short and look back on what's going on in agriculture. This is one of the topics that is probably the most important or perhaps one of the most important that can enter into the topic of debate in this distinguished home. I think the problems we face in this area are actually the unity of our entire society. I will note, already said, 10% of Serbia's total GDP participation, about 20% of its participation in exports and in Serbia's labour force, I think there is enough reason for all of us to unite over the problems Serbia faces in these areas. Of course, I will mention that these laws extend the number of potential users, a circle of persons who can use funds in the area of agriculture. It is also good that young agricultural producers from underdeveloped areas will be placed at the heart of the interest of these legal solutions, which the minister already spoke of in his opening presentation, so there is no need to repeat them. But what has personally turned my attention to me is the provisions that change and supplement, and that is, above all, Article 10. Namely, if you take a good look, in Article 10, in the proposed changes, the user of incentives, i.e. the funds paid unfounded and due to some administrative error, those funds must be reimbursed. Not only do they have to be returned, they must be charged legally tight interest on those funds. He tried today, and I'm still under the impression, I can't help but look back, maybe I wouldn't give examples, there's a lot of examples, but he tried my colleague, Serbian Filipovic, to give an example, we saw how it went. Of course, after the microphones were turned off, he was addressed with insults, threats, called a dog, he was told he would be thrown into the sea. Maybe I wouldn't set an example, but I can't help but go back to that event. I don't have any problem with anyone fighting for the truth and throwing us into the sea and calling us any names, I've suffered both me and my family and throwing in the past into the pits, we've suffered various other pogroms in the 40s and 90s, and I don't have a problem repeating that truth again. Namely, this famous vineyard in Krcedin is 50 acres [50 ha]. To make Serbia's citizens clearer, an incentive to plant the vineyard was taken in August of the month, land was leased in November. It's 525,000 euros. If we had a legal provision then such a one, that amount would have to be paid back and legal tightened interest would have to be charged. It's about millions of euros. Because of these and such things, Serbia, the Serbian peasant is where he is today, agriculture is where he is today. Maybe that's why I'm going to be thrown into the sea, they're going to need a lot of effort, I'm pretty hard to do, but maybe these ones that the ambassadors of the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance have brought to parliament, and a little help has helped them beating women. I wouldn't say anything further about this, it's enough that three billion dinars are more isolated for agriculture this year. These are concrete steps, it's not just a declarative and demagogue story that we often hear here day by day. Please, Minister, continue to adopt and propose these and similar measures and laws. As long as you're going in this direction, as long as you're working this way, I'm sure that all of us, my little bit, as a MP, the parliamentary group that I belong to, the majority in this Parliament, the majority in Serbia, most importantly, will stand behind you and your steps. Finally, to point out, all the legal proposals that are today will be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10191	The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Sasa Radulovic, instead. The previous chairman first read the Nenad Christmas. Why are you doing this? ) The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10192	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and associates, today we are talking about a set of very important laws in the area of agriculture and water supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10193	Excuse me, colleague. Based on article 109, Mr. Radulovic, because you throw as the speaker speaks, I give you a warning. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: You are not ashamed, Mr Arsic. Shame on you, Mr. Arsic. For the same reason, you get a second warning. Mr. Radulovich, you are excluded from further work. I'm taking your word. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Shame on you for not giving me your word. Ask for the word of a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10194	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs. Today we have very serious laws, laws of a very complex nature and I believe that neither the minister nor his co-workers at the Ministry were easy to make such legal proposals. Of course, there are many things that need to be brought into line with EU rules, but not for the sake of the EU, but for the sake of our citizens and our better living conditions. What was the relationship to water, our mildness, because otherwise I can't call water, we can see what things were like in 2014, at a time of catastrophic flooding. We had opportunities to see literally when the water retreated, what was left in the river streams. Well, that was for one huge, huge dump. It wasn't done by someone else, no one came by, we did it to ourselves, nature, and she fought back. How complex this is, and how insecure and the health issue is, because I'm a doctor by profession and I'm gonna focus on it, I only have one example that happened in 1956, known as "minamat" syndrome, happened in Japan, and there was a huge food poisoning. Of course, people living in the coastal area fed on fish, and they poisoned themselves alive. There's been a question of where the mercury poisoning came from. Unnecessarily, there was a plant for the processing of acetates and the living who participated in the process came as wastewater, entered the sea and, of course, the biological cycle was found in seafood and fish. It's just one example of how the eco system is and how nature is inseparable and how we have to take care of it. What was done by these laws, which is for the first time to see that this health care unit was finally left to health care. In some previous period, we had some practice that everyone wanted that part to somehow accept and attract themselves, and that's what we had with the Food Safety Act, when a lot of the vets were handed over, and it turns out they couldn't follow that part of the story. That's why we have big problems today. This law clearly defines whose responsibilities and what part they are in, and that's very good. Certainly, what I'd like to point out is, in fact, to ask first of all, why are no alternative sources of water supply covered? These are arterial wells and wells as local water sources. It's one big resource, a very important resource for both the country's defence and for prevention in another sense, when there's a major handout, then we reach out to these alternative solutions and alternative sources of water supply. They've been brought down again with our carelessness. Just look in the rural area at how many wells have been turned, unfortunately, into septic pits. It is simply blasphemous and it should simply be regulated in one way. Maybe by some other sublegal act, this area will be regulated, but I don't think it should be left entirely aside, because it's very important. What I liked very much about this law, which is that finally whoever is in charge of this process of water pollution, should also bear responsibility, and should bear the consequences if what the law has prescribed is deafened. Regular measurements, regular reports, and if these economic operators don't have, say, laboratories that can do work within them, I suppose they can make contracts with accredited laboratories to do this for them and report regularly to the Ministry of Agriculture or, the competent ministry, whether it's an ecology or someone else in the future, but mostly this law has left nothing to chance. I don't think we should have a dilemma in voting day to support both the minister and his associates and these laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10195	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10196	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. According to the applicable law, a number of agricultural producers were not entitled to incentives precisely for those types of livestock production that record the trend of growth in both the environment and the world, and above all is thought of producing juniper meat. Of the total livestock stock in Serbia, about one half, which is about 200,000 cows are located in smaller agricultural holdings, with two to three Greeks per land. From year to year, agricultural producers are increasingly opting to reduce the number of throats and sell calves because conservation is not profitable to the extent it should be. Therefore, the fact is that from year to year, there is a loss of the base for the production of quality calves for the production of juniper meat and for these reasons, the amendments and additions of this law are extended to cattle and to the incentives for cattle for farming, and thus achieves the conservation of the number of cows that are the basis for the production of juniper meat and create conditions for increasing the livestock stock as well as for the improvement of livestock production. A new incentive is also introduced for quality tow bulls, quality breeding rams and goats, with the aim of encouraging agricultural producers to grow quality breeding males. In this way, genetic improvement of the West is obtained and it is also possible that there is sneezing with non-artificial throats which, over a period of time, promotes the production of those kinds of meat for which there is demand on the market. Serbia has good conditions for producing juniper meat and with changes and additions proposed by this law can achieve good results. Amendments to the law specify the responsibilities of users of incentives as well as obligations in the event of repayment of financial resources unless they are used on purpose. It shall also be specified if the user does not comply with his obligations to return the funds within a specified time limit and, of course, to pay a tight interest. It is also defined that the documentation is kept for five years and this will reduce malversions and protect agricultural producers whose income is the only source of existence. The amendments to this law give full support to the establishment of agricultural associations. Incentives for promotional activities in agriculture and rural development are also introduced. What is a newspaper and what is very important is the introduction of a support measure for young farmers. The goal is to provide support to young farmers who see their lives and survival in the country. In particular, the accent will be placed on those registered agricultural holdings led to young people. Through grants in the form of old-ap funds for certain investments, as well as through specific programmes discussed today by the minister, where these young producers will have a grace period of one and a half to two years with low interest rates, as we have heard today, such agricultural landowners will be helped to improve their production and thus make their incomes for land. Therefore, increased interest in the use of incentive funds is expected, so that changes and additions of this law will directly affect all registered agricultural holdings. Given that I come from Leskovec, a city that has decided on the strategic branch of agricultural development, where more than one half of the population is engaged directly in agriculture and where we have registered 12,000 agricultural holdings, I believe that my fellow citizens, as well as citizens of all Serbia, will benefit directly from the amendment and addition of this law. So in the voting day, I will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10197	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10198	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. In fact, when I talk about this law, the aim of this law is primarily to remove some of the shortcomings that were present in the past law, and it was precisely the use of EU funds, so-called. IPARD funds. It is very important to say that this is a huge sum, somewhere around 175m euros and of course we will talk about this for a long time tonight, and by passing this law today and discussing it, we will also remove some irregularities concerning deadlines. In fact, what fascinated me in Mr. Vukic's exposé was that he said that this year, in 2017, the highest percentage would be separated precisely for agriculture, which is the basic branch of economy and economy in general, also, for capital investments, then for the dedicated industry, weapons and culture, for everything that has been deliberately neglected for years. First of all, it should be said that as much as 20% of the total population of employees in the Republic of Serbia is employed in agriculture, then that the total amount of agriculture is around 23%, one of our respected opposition that nonsensus goes to the EU. Well, dear gentlemen, we export 85% of the total economy directly to the EU or the EU. That should be remembered if we think we live like any normal and developed country. What is also very important to say and mention, it is that agriculture in the economy takes over or participates with 10%, very important. Dear colleagues also talked about us not having a strategy. On the contrary, we have a strategy, we have an action plan, and we just exist for a long time, and we will exist for a long time, because we work teamly, because we deal in the best possible way with economic policy, and that also shows the exposés, where we have a 3.1% surplus and a GDP deficit of just 1.7%. That result doesn't remember back 45 years. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I would point out about agriculture, which is very important, is that the next year 450 million will be allocated to local self-government, which is very important, and part of it will be allocated to recycling of waste. Also, local self-government will be part of the resources for wastewater, and what is very important for our children and for ourselves living in the Republic of Serbia is that air quality will be measured and it will be monitoring throughout the Republic of Serbia. What we have to do, and we've been doing since 2012, and thank God we've come to power. If we hadn't, this country that was completely devastated, we only remember the privatisation of 550 companies, fired workers over 350,000. We employed over 13,000 people during that period and the percentage fell from 27% of unemployed people in 2012 to 15% this year, with a tendency to be 14% next year. What should we point out? It should be emphasized that young people would return to the country we must make an effort to build infrastructure first of all, to pave the way for certain roads, to create a social climate and make a good life in the country. I remember in 2009 when my esteemed colleague talked about promoting his party, so he bought a 5.5 million-dollar computer that didn't work. I wish he had invested that money in youth, today over a thousand families would live in the country and have quite good conditions for life. As for agriculture incentives, it should be said that it should mainly encourage a complete livestock fund, as well as beekeeping. Then, we need to restore the complete machinery, the irrigation systems that have gone completely past. Then, we need to build a department or rooms where we have animals. So we must try to do everything according to European standards. We are an EU side country, thank God it is, and I am sure it will be in the next period just as it is said. What else is there to say? Unfortunately, in the transition, much has been lost, and there is depression, and young people absolutely don't have any stimuli. That's why we need to build a lot of small factories, start-up companies, and here we have start-up companies that, thanks to our educations with women of future entrepreneurs, have produced fruit. Otherwise, it should be said that these start-up companies are financed in a number of ways, primarily from the Republic of Serbia's budget, then from projects concerning the ministry, also from development funds in the EU. Speaking of which, all we have to say is that we have an extraordinary co-operation with the German Development Bank, with the European Development Bank, and also with the world banks. And just this way, by encouraging agriculture, we already have extraordinary results compared to last year's growth, or the budget increase is 8.11%, which is about four billion dinars. Great for the government of the Republic of Serbia, I'm sure there's a lot more to say. I would just ask all of our MPs who are not in favour of the EU, to understand that 85% is going to the EU, so in the voting day, I would ask all MPs to vote in favour of the draft of this extraordinary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10199	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10200	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, as my colleagues have already delivered, today we have three very important laws, two from the field of agriculture and rural development, namely the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development, and the third law concerns changes and additions to the Water Act. All these three laws are of paramount importance for all three laws in the SNS voting day, of course, will vote for them. That this government is approaching agriculture in a responsible way shows by its own budget. The 2017 budget of the Republic of Serbia plans to allocate about 8.7% more for agriculture, which amounts to about 3.3 billion more funding for agriculture and agricultural activities. Why are more funds being allocated? Because agriculture represents a very significant branch of the economy and because agriculture participates in the total GDP with 10%. What I would like to point out is that the first law relating to the development of agriculture and rural development is, in fact, a law that represents a legal framework for the withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds, and these funds amount to 175m euros and will, of course, be withdrawn in tranches. Why is the adoption of this law significant? Because the withdrawal of these funds will certainly improve the quality of agricultural production, improve the competitiveness of agricultural products, improve the quality of the environment and improve full agricultural production as a very important aspect of the progress of the economy and in general the economic progress of Serbia. What I would like to stress is that this law, apart from defining clear procedures, and those procedures from submitting, that is, to the submission of the project, is defined in a precise and clear manner and by the responsibility of the Agrarian Payments Authority through the adoption of the solution, but it also defines the appeal procedure, as well as the procedure that can be put in place before the Administrative Court in the event of a solution. Also, this law is significant that it introduces three very significant mechanisms and three very significant tools, which are the basis of things and relevant data, which are data relating to accounting data, data relating to market prices and data relating to land cadastral parcels. Why does it matter? Because adequate agricultural production and, in general, the agrarian policy of a single country can only be planned and monitored if it has adequate analysis, i.e. if it has an adequate database and so that it can plan and monitor agrarian policy in a successful way. As for the second law, and as regards incentives, I would especially like to highlight one element because it includes several segments, the development and progress of our society, which are incentives for improving the quality of life in rural areas and these incentives are important both from demographic and social and economic aspects. This is what I'm gonna end up with. Certainly there is no dilemma that these are laws that focus on agricultural holdings, agricultural producers, that they are directed towards progress and development of agriculture, that agriculture, as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic pointed out, is an imperative of our development and progress and in the day to vote, we will support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10201	Thank you. The word has been sent by the people, Zoran Bojanić. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10202	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, we have before us the draft laws submitted by the Government on amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. By adopting both draft laws, we will enable the implementation of instruments or, as the minister likes to say, tools for the implementation of financial pre-accession assistance through the so-called IPARD programme from the European Union funds, which are intended for candidate countries for the European Union, i.e. We will allow natural and legal persons to receive certain incentives from the field of support for agriculture and rural development. We will also allow the implementation of the action plan as preconditions for the opening of Chapter 11 in the area of agriculture on our path towards joining the European Union. Amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development create conditions for the use of IPARD funds, i.e. responsible and transparent management of European Union funds. It is possible to edit and identify land parcels, which is one of the preconditions for the use of European Union funds in agriculture in accordance with European Union legislation. It also allows for the implementation of support measures for undeveloped and protected rural areas, but also for monitoring economic parameters to control the effectiveness of the implementation of measures. The amendments and additions to this second law, the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, extends the circle of users, which is very important, incentives in the field of direct payments for livestock production, quality tow bulls, cows for farming and tow calves, quality breeding rams, goats, nerasta, etc. Further, support measures are being introduced for young farmers, which is of paramount importance, which they see their lives and existence in the countryside and in agricultural production, through grants in the form of start-up funds, especially young farmers in regions with difficult conditions for intensive production and in economically undeveloped municipalities. Encouragement is also being introduced to develop a new way of planning rural development through the formation of local action groups, so-called lies, a special form of public-private partnership in rural areas involving all interested enterprises, entrepreneurs, public institutions, farmers and citizens. The establishment of so-called lies and the creation of local strategies and rural development plans enables them to be implemented by funding through pre-accession European Union funds, both for agriculture and for infrastructure, education, etc. This has drawn particular attention to me, because local action groups, so-called lies, need to become an important support for the rural population in ensuring better living and working conditions in their areas. They should become drivers of rural development, the local community, because the European Union's common agricultural policy is precisely lying to leave the planning and implementation of rural development projects in order to revitalise villages and create new jobs, because people on the ground know best how to manage agricultural resources and to start developing their own area. Farmers need well-organised lies, because they are the link in the chain of withdrawing money from the pre-accession European Union funds for agriculture and rural development. By establishing lies, these rural areas will have the right to participate in obtaining funds from European Union funds intended for less than 25,000 inhabitants. The local action group or lie represents a partnership between the private, public and non-governmental sectors and, in its composition, may have representatives of interested businessmen, business associations, businesses, agricultural holdings and farmers, representatives of NGOs and representatives of local authorities with an agricultural accent. As for the third law that passed this ministry, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Water Act, which was submitted by the Government. Since I've spent a lot of time, I'll cut it short. This proposal amends and complements the Water Act agrees this law with other regulations and laws, removes shortcomings, introduces an obligation to introduce water land borders into spatial and urban plans, regulates the exploitation of river applications, etc., all in order to reduce the risk of floods and other accidents. I suggest we pass all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10203	The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10204	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, respected fellow citizens, in today's discussion, I take part in the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. I'll put an accent on key things, but also give my opinion, respecting your time. So, by gaining candidate status in March 2012, Serbia was given the opportunity to use IPA funds. This law further regulates the objectives of agricultural policy and rural development policy, the register of agricultural holdings, as well as the supervision of the implementation of these laws. IPA funds allow us to use aid for rural development and these funds are allocated to agricultural holdings, as well as to other persons in line with IPARD programmes. For example, in the Central Banatian Management District, the country is extremely high quality, as well as in the whole of Vojvodina, part of Machva, Šumadia. However, more precisely, in an extremely small village in Banat, Banatski Višnićev, where first-class parcels are of quality and where only 200 residents, who live exclusively from agriculture, live, will benefit greatly. It is the same situation in the villages of Stajic, Melenci, Elemira, Taras. I'm telling you these facts, because I'm in constant communication with the locals of these populated places and they're turning past agricultural production and livestock. Finally, these people will have the opportunity and everyone will be able to come out using IPA funds, therefore, primarily agricultural holdings, and not just large landowners who were fellow creators of the former regime of government, thus arching the budget of the Republic of Serbia. One very interesting item is that during the time of Minister Sasa Dragina, they forced agricultural producers to purchase artificial fertilizer from favored merchants and thus picked up a kamak. This, fortunately, is no longer a practice. This way, the villagers will finally be able to restore their machinery through these funds and improve the quality of their work. Thank Minister Nedimovic, thank your team for really getting a lot of strength and you're pointing us to how these projects are used. You have really heard about all the layers in society and there's no one protection, no matter how much hectare they own. There's really no kind of protection, and you're kind of giving us back our faith and a chance that the honest world can live off its work. So in voting day, I'm going to support a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10205	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10206	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, here we are at the end of the discussion in the principle of these legislative proposals. What to say is that this is an essential continuation of the process of European integration. We also heard that it was Chapter 11 and that it was the implementation of a strategy already adopted by the government in the past, when we talk about agriculture and rural development. What I would remind myself of is that it must never happen to us again that because of some minister who comes from one city's Agrarian Payments Authority is moving there and giving us lessons here about how we missed 250m euros to engage in business activities intended for agriculture. Not to mention that in recent years the entire Ministry of Agriculture has traveled daily, over 60 people, from Belgrade to Sabac, and over 10 state cars have gone there to do the job. So it must never happen to us again. It's just that some people teach us lessons that don't even have morals, let alone some political right here. Secondly, we must never again experience tycoons of the type Miskovic who import milk powder and close the market "Imleka" completely here for sale, and then simply the state loses the process when it comes to the monopoly and the same state pays "Imleku" 750 thousand euros on the continuum of the damage claim. So, such cases must never become a reality again, and that is why both the SNS and the Government, led by Mr. Vukic, are simply characterized by the fact that such monopolies in the country no longer exist. It's a big thing that as a minister who comes from a city that you've run and which, of course, has agricultural products and processing industry, you've come to run a practical sector of not only agriculture and rural development, but also part of environmental protection, because you understand very well first, what our obligations are when it comes to European integration, but also who understands very well what IPARD means. So, the citizens of Serbia and those who are not agricultural producers should be told that now is the moment when Serbia can withdraw subsidies from the state fund, meaning, the Republic of Serbia from the budget, if it really deals with a certain type of investment, with a certain primary agricultural production to the land, means, the size of two hectares, certain investments in equipment, specifically in processing, and over two hectares that it can be joined and that with a certain formation of lies, so-called. Local action groups, in principle, competing for EU funds through IPARD funds, mean they can withdraw subsidies for everything they've done on that agricultural land. Through the lies, NGOs involved in this part and local self-government and representatives of the ministry, as well as representatives of certain agricultural producers, as well as the processing industry, also participate. If all of these factors in society are united, they can really pull a lot of it back. What is important is to say that we ourselves create a future and how much funding we will withdraw from European funds. So based on how capable we are of actually doing this job. If we are not able, we can lie as Croatia and say – we will withdraw annually, type, 100, 200, 300 million, and really withdraw 50. But that's not what we should be doing. We must, above all, be responsible for ourselves and our citizens, but also for these citizens and producers to be responsible for themselves, to organise themselves in this way, as the IPARD dictates and to really withdraw money from European funds for their needs. So, basically, we can actually start our own agriculture, but also the processing industry. What I would give a focus on is not forgetting sustainable rural tourism. This is what women, farmers, and let's not forget what the Women's Parliamentary Network was dealing with, which is that, in the future, farmers should actually, through a change of rules, actually draw their own rights, because when there are certain divorces, then mostly women farmers remain without the country they have been working on and thus help them to actually exercise their right to work that they have been used to their entire lives. In the end, I'd say that we need to network the information society of all agricultural producers. Certain associations had such a proposal with the Ministry of Telecommunications when competitions were called, however, did not understand it properly and therefore will certainly compete with you, as the Ministry of Agriculture and we think that in this way, essentially, we will raise the level of quality in general economic activities related to rural development. Innovation through a certain type of irrigation and anti-urban protection activity and an ever-increasing application of the work relating to education, which your ministry has carried out over the past period, can lead to the fact that indeed those who have not previously engaged in agriculture find a certain interest in what they have, for example, some of the land they have inherited, that they are really starting the way of these projects and that they simply launch the production of agricultural products and the processing industry in a positive direction. That's why, in voting day, we really need to support all these mechanisms that you've put through these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10207	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10208	Dear Chairman, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have three legislative proposals on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Waters. In my speech, I will refer to the first two legislative proposals on amendments and amendments to the law. I can say that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the necessity of amending and supplementing this law is that we allow this amendment and supplementing the smooth use of IPA funds intended for agriculture and rural development. IPA funds will mean to us for agriculture and rural development, and will be implemented through the Agency for Agricultural Payments. In fact, this law regulates the work of the Administration on the allocation of funds from the IPARD Fund, which represent the EU's financial instrument for pre-accession assistance to rural development. IPARD incentives are incentives for rural development that are assigned to agricultural holdings and other persons in line with the IPARD programme. The goal of all this will be to grow production and stability of the producer's income, as well as to create conditions for the 175m euros in money available to Serbia from pre-accession funds to be used. When we look at changes and complements the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, we come to the conclusion that under one – the expansion of the circle of users who can exercise the right to incentives and under two – is the introduction of categories of young persons, agricultural producers who will be able to organise agricultural production through incentives. When we talk about the expansion of the circle of users who can exercise the right to incentive, it primarily refers to livestock production, or the production of juniper meat, an incentive is introduced for cows, for the breeding of calves and tov. In the municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo the incentive funds for 2016, based on the breeding of animals, amount to around 74 million dinars. By expanding the circle of users who will, on the basis of this amendment and the addition of the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouraging Act, have an increase of around 15 million dinars in the amount of incentive funds for Bujanovac and Presevo, which is of paramount importance for users of the incentive funds. Which means in the next year, in 2017, we will have close to 100 million dinars based on the mothering of animals. The expansion of the user circle that has the right to encourage, on the one hand, will result in monetary income for users who have the right to encourage, and on the other hand, we will reduce the possibility of illegal trade in live cattle. Another important thing, these amendments and the addition of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, is the introduction of a support measure for young farmers. The aim of this measure is to support young farmers, above all in underdeveloped municipalities, to use grants in the form of start-up loans, to start agricultural production within their agricultural holdings and thus to provide money for the normal existence of their family and to stay on their holdings so as not to come into a situation to leave their centuries-old hearths and move to more developed environments. The Serbian Progressive Party will support any amendments and additions to the proposed laws in the voting day, I call on other fellow MPs to support these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10209	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10210	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, today we have two draft laws from the domain of agriculture and this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Encouragements in Agriculture and Rural Development, and another law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, especially in livestock production, achieves a greater quality to guide incentives in the area of direct payments and to a wider circle of users. It is very good that the registered farm of livestock production also extends to high-quality tow bulls, cows and farming bodies for tov, quality breeding rams and goats and quality breeding negrets. These changes more precisely define which persons are entitled to use these incentives, i.e. more specifically, which incentives for certain categories can be achieved. For example, the incentive for these heroes is achieved by those holdings in which the sheep's throat is intended for meat production, the first ownership of a person who has the right to use this type of incentive for at least 185 days, after which it is sold to the slaughterhouse, or intended for export. All these changes and additions of the Encouragement Act in agriculture suggest that the increase and stability of livestock production are stimulated. In order for these objectives to be achieved, the modern market for concentrated livestock production must be based on the use of high-quality and specialised pure races and hybrids and the necessary genetic material for the remonting of the basic herd in order to achieve high results in this production. I believe that this law and the additions of the Encouragement Act, however, do not cover indigenous races, particularly cattle and sheep, so it is necessary to introduce incentives for them, for the sake of the purity and genetics of these races. It would be realistic if the law were to be complemented to include an incentive for the race of sheep “Pramenka”. This breed of sheep is present in a greater number, with a tendency to spread in the territory of Backa and Banata, with a good quality of lamb meat, with a good radman, it is a ratio of meat and bones, with good economic profitability and a relatively cheaper manner of holding. This breed of sheep is present in more numbers with a trend of expansion in the territory of Backa and Banata with a good quality of lamb meat, with a good radman, it is a ratio of meat and bones, with good economic profitability and a relatively cheaper manner of holding. I also suggest that the incentive cover your broiler. The milk premiums for 2017 should also remain at the current level. This is very important for this production and that this premium leads to greater production and stability in milk production. All these proposed measures set out in this proposal for legislation contribute to improving livestock production and water towards greater stability and stable and safe production in livestock farming. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, it will allow respect for the rules and deadlines set by agreements and the achievement of the objective, which is to create a legal basis for the implementation of the IPARD programme, namely the withdrawal of financial resources from pre-accession EU funds for agriculture and rural development. The use of these funds will certainly increase the standard and competitiveness in the area of agriculture and rural development, which means that Serbian agriculture will benefit from this, while the administration will have to improve at the same time, i.e. adapt the rules applicable in the EU. Using these funds will help young people stay in the country, not go abroad. With all this in mind, in voting day, the SNS will support both of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10211	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10212	Thank you. I spoke today, expressed my views and opinions on the Law on Agriculture as well as the NPS, but what my impression today is what the importance of agriculture is, and this is well seen by the interest of MPs who have been here all day between 50, 60 to 70. I commend the minister who's been here all day and I'm just afraid he doesn't mind Prime Minister Vukic because you've been sitting here for longer than he has in parliament, which means you wanted to listen to all the discussions. But the problem is that in these discussions you didn't have what sense to hear, MPs of the ruling parties mostly spoke about the praises of Alexander Vukic, talking about the analysis of the exposés, there was preceded by Mr Atlagic, who best analyzed Alexander Vukic's exposé on several occasions. I'd like him to tell me what the European Commission is and what it's doing, because he was talking about it. As far as agriculture is concerned, in 630,000 owners, millions and 450,000 people are working and how important the topic is for both this Parliament and Serbia and for all of us. So farmers do more than prime ministers and more than all of us and deserve to be respected here. As for the minister, you told me today to look at the site, I looked at the site and I saw on the site that the country is a beneficiary of the geographical area of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. So, can Kim farmers count on the IPARD program or not, since it's not covered by this program? In the end, I want to say that the SDS-NPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill because it unlocks the problem of IPARD funds, we will not hitchhike our farmers, and we will hold you to the word that in April of this month we will receive accreditation and finally begin to realise these funds, unlike the prime minister, who has already lied to it several times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10213	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, two minutes 21 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10214	Dear citizens of Serbia, here I am a famous bar singer from the Ibari highway, a bully who beats women, a semi-literate bastard, I'd like to say something about what you do to Serbian agriculture. From Prota Matija Nenadovic to today, there has been no greater political fraud than the SNS. Gentlemen, it is your turn to be told that European integration cannot be poured into tractors and cannot be sown in Serbian fields. There's a good folk proverb that actually paints your policy of Serbia's entry into the EU, and that's not -- it's not eating donkeys to green grass. So, five years of your SNS lies and Serbia's voter fraud culminated with these lawfully empty stories of yours. Since 2012, you have promised Serbian citizens 175m euros from some pre-accession European funds. Here, for five years there are no dinars, let alone 175m euros from these funds. Now, after five years, the authorities have decided to do something about it, and yet it will take you a few years, provided that the EU has ever accredited you to the Agrarian Payments Authority. What I particularly want to ask is that you, Mr. Minister, have been asked a little while since the "Agrobusiness" magazine and months ago, you have been avoiding answering that question, and this is a new milk affair that is shaking Serbia today, so I have brought evidence in that direction. Here, this is Imlek's "My Cow", beautifully written on Cyrillic, writing one and a half liters of milk. This is Croatia's famous Dukat company, where it doesn't say in advance how much this bottle is, where it is according to the food declaration rule to stand what they actually sell in Serbia. The ministry of trade admits that they are manipulating because only behind is the net amount of 1,450 milliliters. You will not answer for four months what is true about the new Dukat dairy affair that actually manipulates the Serbian market here. So this is proof that Croatianisation has taken over our market and that Croatian tycoons buy, clear and dress across Serbia. Please finally get an answer to this new milk affair.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10215	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10216	Dear President, dear ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, today we have had the opportunity to attend the debate during which certain opposition MPs, especially those parties belonging to the former regime, have tried to show us how great agricultural experts are and how suddenly they care about agriculture and farmers, but the only thing they have managed to do is to make sure that what we have long known, that the destruction, devastation and destruction of agricultural combinations and the desperate position of farmers during their rule was the result of their deliberate and organized criminal rule. Since I'm really not a agricultural expert on their caliber, I'm going to talk a little bit about the proposed Law on Amendments and Water Law supplements this time. Water potential next to land is the most significant natural resource that Serbia has as a state. When we talk about water, we must note that, according to the UN report, within two decades of two thirds of humanity will experience a serious lack of water. The same report says that at this point about a billion people do not have access to drinking water, that two and a half billion people have no essential sanitary conditions provided, and that more than five million people die annually from water pollution diseases. What's scariest is that about six thousand children under the age of five every day in the world die from the diseases caused by water pollution. So every day in the world, six million tons of waste is thrown into rivers and lakes and other water streams. An irresponsible relationship with such resources can lead not only to an ecological disaster, but to disasters of great proportions that threaten the survival of all mankind. What nature has given us should also be preserved by proper governance, which provides this law as a possibility, and we should improve. Healthy and usable waters will be less and less every day, so it is no wonder that many believe that the 20th century has been marked by wars for oil, and that the 21st century will be marked by wars for water. What is the situation in the Republic of Serbia? For a long time, there was a delusion that Serbia is rich in water resources. However, the natural conditions that determine the water regime on Serbia's territory are quite unfavourable, as only 8% of the water supply is formed on our own territory, and the quality of water is significantly worsened by human activity, so that a large number of water streams and springs in Serbia do not meet the criteria for water use. When we talk about the bill, I especially must commend that there have been numerous shortcomings in the application of the current Water Act, which will be corrected by this bill. First of all, instead of the territorial water management, water management is introduced, these changes are determined on the basis of a technical argument, and it is in this case a hydrographic spill, thereby afirming one of the basic postulates in the water economy, that the stream is a basic management unit. The second positive news is that the draft law provides for transparency of the procedure for the lease of water land as a good of general interest, as water land in public property will be leased through public tendering or the collection of written offers through public advertising, resulting in a lease that cannot be paid for the use of water land in public property, instead of a fee for use by the Government for each calendar year. Since public water companies, in addition, are given management and water protection facilities to protect themselves from erosion and streams of accumulation that govern each other for the purpose of functional integration of these objects, as well as in the practice of showing the inability of the unit of local self-government to manage these entrusted facilities, and to end the current bad practice and absence of results in protecting against the adverse fact of erosion and floods due to the lack of personnel and financial capacity of local self-government units, as well as that this complex area rises to a republican level with the participation of all relevant sectors that will enable joint agreed activities to realise the development of a map of erosion for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the declaration of erosion areas, their borders and conditions for use as key preconditions for the improvement of this area. In the end, I would especially like to commend the changes related to the extraction of river applications from waterland, since we have witnessed that during the previous two decades uncontrollable exploitation of gravel and sand has led to changes in the streams of certain rivers, the descent of the troughs, the threat of bridges, the sea of fish or the difficulty in water supply, and that digging has affected the damage to the floods in many places. This area, which in the past has been the source of many criminal activities, both abuses in the context of the allowed exploitation and the wild exploitation of the river application, I believe that this law will be arranged in a much better way. I am convinced that the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act will enable much better management and relation to water and waterways, and in accordance with this parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party in the voting day to support the proposal for this law, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10217	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10218	I think I've been clear enough today, the State Agricultural Land Act is catastrophic, corrupt, and not good, and the collapsing is with everything you do with these laws. There is no way to explain how to take away the primary agricultural producers that are capable, and you have allocated the funds primarily to IPARD to them, rather than to some incompetent producers. As far as the Water Act is concerned, he's a good law. We have submitted some amendments and I hope you will adopt them. They're about what we know about water. I think we should adopt him, and we should take that step and solve the shortcomings we had in the last law. The Law on Agriculture and Rural Development opens the door to European integration and the possibility of attracting money and the DS will never be against such a law. We can try to fix it. Our amendments are more technical, because we think the amendments you've proposed are such that we can no longer intervene on that law, but this satisfies us. As for the Encouragement Act, we can't vote for him. We haven't achieved the level of giving that had DS in our time. We know you don't have money, but there are other problems, which is consistency and certainty that we couldn't intervene with these amendments, predictability in agriculture, and that should be mentioned. There's money in the end. The moment we detect money from the fictitious nonsense we invest, the type "Er Serbia", the type "Belgrade on Water", and we locate it in health, agriculture and education, then you will have our support. For now, we'll vote, after the debate, for these two laws, because I think they're good and I think you've done a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10219	Do any of the other representatives, or authorised representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivana Stojljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10220	Thank you, Chairman. For the end, I'd have to look back at this remark if there was no interest in these laws today, which certainly doesn't stand. Here, and in these late hours citizens can see that at any moment the majority MPs have at least 25 times more than the opposition MPs, which probably shows our strength in the present and in the future and more. It's about the observation that there was no interest. Interest is also how, especially for, as I have already said, our natural resources, which we have great respect for our farmers, which we also respect. What I would say is that some of the comments that we heard at the end of the day, in principle, I wouldn't comment because they just come as one packaging, with no substance and no content, and the observation that we didn't have anything to hear today is also not true. We've heard a lot of concrete things, we've tried to really talk about proposals that are on the agenda today, and not to spread the subject now and talk about anything that might come to mind, as some have tried. Of course, I hope that there will be moments and that soon we will have the agenda and the laws so that we can embrace this more extensively, because agriculture is really something that we will be dealing with in the next period, especially as we move towards opening chapters related to this area. What I still want to praise this government is that this government has realized that agriculture in our country is a very important area, that agriculture doesn't make it fast, as some thought sitting on the other side. Agriculture is not made fast, but it is a sustainable branch of the economy and we will invest in it, we will support development, we will bring people back to the country, we will give them an incentive for it, and that is what our goal is and what this government's programme is, and we continue to support it. So go ahead, all congratulations to both the Ministry and the Government on these programmes and on these bill proposals that will soon be passed and we hope soon to have new draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10221	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10222	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I thank you for all your steps today. If good vision serves me, and I think it still serves me, we've had a incomplete 12 hours of debate over these three draft laws. For the sake of the public and everyone here, I have to point out once again that as far as the incentives in agriculture are concerned, the funding in the 2017 budget will, moreover, be provided by 3.32 billion, investment will be four times more funds than it was in 2016, so somewhere around 2.2 billion that are meant to increase the competitiveness of agricultural producers. We have certain categories in the field of livestock, where we have increased the amount of incentives, introduced some new categories, we have after a few years of the first amendment of the Encouragement Act where we introduce new measures, we increase incentives, we don't go in the opposite direction, I think it's very important to say. I would particularly like to re-absorb measures aimed at young agricultural producers. I think it's the measure and determination of this government to engage in the fight against all those problems that exist in the devastated areas. As far as IPARD's assets and procedures are concerned, that's where it's all said. I don't think wasting words on that makes any sense. There's one more thing I want to say, to underline it, we'll be ready in April to call in an audit to come and accredit us. I think it's very important to say, that no doubt arises. We've heard that in April, someone mentioned competitions. I've been trying all day to listen to all those who have something to say, and there's a lot to hear, and I'm grateful to everyone. As regards the specific question raised earlier, we will check all the references in accordance with the Declaration Regulation and the Milk Quality Control Regulation. Just one thing, one correction, I don't know if you know it, and you should know, that milk you were talking about, the brand "Dukat" is owned by the French company Lactalis, same as "Somboled" and there's no story, and I don't even want to comment on what you were saying. I want to tell you in the end, that there is a clear definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister during the exposé and today during these laws, that we place agriculture in one of the central places, and this is seen through the recently adopted budget, through more resources, and that is the measure of our commitment to push things into agriculture for the better. Thank you very much for today's debate. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. Fifty grams each bottle is stolen. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-13-0.u10223	Mr. Obradovic, you should have learned when the minister gave the final word that there was no replica. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Mentions and talks... He didn't mention you at any time. I'm concluding a joint principled search. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. I thank you all for your cooperation.
