ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-03-0.u52798	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions for voting. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Momo Colaković. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 10 of the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – I am putting the draft law on employees in the autonomous provinces and units of local self-government in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – 11 abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of the head, the name of the member and member of the 1st amendment, the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic and Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the name of the member and member of the 2nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted the same text. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for six against them. 162 MPs have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 4th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 161 people's messenger. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 7th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the head, the title and article of the 8th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Milisav Petronijevic, Stefana Miladanovic and Neđo Jovanovic together. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for six against them. 162 MPs have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – two, two, against – one, abstention – 166 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six, nor did 161 MPs vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there was no vote of 159 peoples. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title of the head, head, title and article of the 16th amendment were submitted jointly by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the head of the third and the title above the 16th amendment was tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 17th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted against 159 of the Messengers, for ten. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for six against them. 163 MPs have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS brought an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 17a. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for six against them. 163 MPs have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 18th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the title and article of the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 163 people's messengers, for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The DS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of the title and of Article 19a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title of the head, head and member of the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 21st amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for seven, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 165 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 167 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for seven, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 165 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 166 MPs for seven. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 169 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 25th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 167 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 169 MPs for six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 27th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 169 MPs for six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 169 MPs for six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 29th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 169 MPs for six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title, title and article of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for six, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 170 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 165 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 31st Amendment was submitted to the parliamentary groups Boris Tadic – SDS and ZZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who voted 167 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 168 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 168 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS and the ZZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 34th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 168 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned one, voted 171 people's messenger for six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 171 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS and the ZZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 172 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 166 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS and ZZS submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 166 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – six against – 168 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 170 MPs for – four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and member of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 41st amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title, title and article of the 44th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for—five against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 168 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 45th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the title and article of the 46th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title of the head, head, title and member of the 47th amendment was jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 168 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for six, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The LSV parliamentary group submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for six, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for six, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 51st amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has 165 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—seven against—there is no one who has ever voted for 168 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 165 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 54th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted together to the title and article of the 56th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted in 171 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the 58th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for ten, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the title and article of the 60th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 169 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-03-0.u52799	Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 65 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the head, head, title and article of the 68th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Siniša Maksimovic submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 159 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total attendance of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of the head, head and member of the 75th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 168 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 162 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 165 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 80th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 162 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 81st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 166 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 81st Amendment, with a correction, was filed by nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title, title and article of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 83rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 84th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title and article of the 86th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article of the 87th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 87th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 90th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 90th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 159 out of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 166 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title and article of the 93rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 166 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 93rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 94th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 94th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 95th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 97th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title and article of the 98th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 98th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title and article of the 99th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote 166 out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title and article of the 101st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – no one with abstention – 167 out of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 101st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – five, abstention – one, 163 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 102 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 103rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 103. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 164 out of the total attendance of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 105th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 106th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group submitted to the 107th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 108th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 108th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The title, subtitle and member of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 110th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 111 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 169 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 113 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 114th of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and member of the 115th Amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comić together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 116th of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the 117th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The 117th amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 118. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 168 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the 119th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 120th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 169 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, voted 169 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 121 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 122 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The title, subtitle and Article 124 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 168 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 125 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 126th of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 127th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and the article 128th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 170 MPs out of the 170 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Glav, the title and member of the 129th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Glav, the title and article of the 130th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 167 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 131st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for—two, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 169 MPs from the total of the 171 people's messengers present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of Glava, Glavu, title and Article 132 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs of the total attendance of the 171 Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 133th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted against 169 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 134 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 135 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 136th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 168 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Assembly Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 136. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 MPs of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 137. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 138th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 166 MPs, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 139th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 169 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 140th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article 141 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 173 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 170 MPs, of the total attendance of 174 MPs, against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article of the 143rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 144 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 145th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 170 MPs, of the total attendance of 174 MPs, against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 146 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 147 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs from a total of 175 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 148th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger from a total of 175 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title and article of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 150th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger from a total of 175 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of Glava, Glavu, title and member of the 151st amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs from the total of 176 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 152 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs, of the total attendance of 176 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 153rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 MPs from the total of 176 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the Glav and Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs from the total of 176 MPs present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the Glav and Article 155 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the Glav and Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 157 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 158th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 159 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 160th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 161st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 162 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 163rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 164 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 160th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 166 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 160th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the National Assembly Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 168 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 173 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava, Glavu, the name and member of the 169th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted the title and article 170th. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 173 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Glav, the title and article of the 171st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 175 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article 172. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 173rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-03-0.u52800	Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 174. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 175th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 176 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted in 171 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 177. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article of the 178th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted in 171 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 178th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 179 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 180th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 181st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 182 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of - three against - 173 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the Glav and member of the 183rd amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 184 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varga to Article 184. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the Glav and Article 185 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 186 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 186. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 187 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 188th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 189 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 190th of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Glav, the title of Glava and Article 191 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title of Glava and Article 192 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava and Article 193 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 195 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 195. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 196 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, no one voted 176 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 197th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 198th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 199th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 200th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 200th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has no vote of 178 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and Article 202 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them. 175 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 52(1) of Article 29(1) of Article 30(2) and Article 50(2) of the Privatisation Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, v – 10 abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the vote on the 3rd agenda -- a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 166, against 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – I would like to put the motion for a decision on the discharge of the President of the First Fundamental Court in Belgrade to vote on the motion for a decision on the resolution of the President of the First General Court in Belgrade, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 165, against 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – I am putting the motion to vote on the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court in Kruševec, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 166, against 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – I am putting the motion to vote on the motion for a decision on the termination of the term of office of President of the Criminal Court in Jagodina, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE DECISION AND THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REGIONAL COMMISSION MEMBER STATES I hereby put to the vote Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of the Election Commission, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – The list of candidates for the selection of MEPS OF THE REGISTRAL BODY FOR ELECTRONIC MEDIA We approach the vote on candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on the proposal of the competent committee of the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council are Sinisa Isaac and Vladimir Barovic, on a proposal from the competent board of the AP Vojvodina. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. 1. I am putting the motion to elect Sinisha Isaac as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. 2. I am putting the motion to elect Vladimir Barovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly, starting from the number of votes received, did not elect any of the two candidates proposed by the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal from the committee responsible of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the church and religious communities. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council on the proposal of the church and religious communities are Aleksandra Jankovic and Nenad Draskovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. 1. I am putting forward a motion to elect Aleksandra Jankovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 162 against – ten abstentions – there are no, five MPs did not vote. 2. I am putting the motion to elect Nenad Draskovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 176 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Aleksandra Jankovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the church and religious communities. Let me congratulate her on her choice, on your behalf and on my own behalf, and wish her success in her work. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president, the Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the REGIONAL AGENCY FOR ELECTRICAL COMMUNICATIONS AND POST SERVICES I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the selection of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 11 MPs, for – 162 against. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 162, no six MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries, that's the favorite thing about our vote. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 2 March 2016, at 20 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the six abstentions, has voted against the 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has conducted a discussion and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I thank you for our work together. We can be proud of what we did. We have 36 sessions in a regular session, 32 sessions in an emergency session, 11 special sessions, 232 days and nights of work, a total of 615 acts adopted, 384 laws and 233 other regulations. We can be proud of what we did. Thank you very much.
