ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the Charter of Agendas exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that a total of 133 MPs are present in the hall and that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who yesterday at a press conference for a group of people working from Belgrade against the regime of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, who have subversively acted as criminal groups. How could he call all of us who are subversive against the regime of Milo Djukanovic – criminal groups? We have been subversive against Milo Djukanovic's regime since he falsified the referendum's results to the will of the Western forces of Montenegro from the common state with Serbia. I, from The Hague tribunal, managed, organised, managed a project that proved 700 sides of Milo Djukanovic's criminal affairs and his pals, including Bran Micunovic, who is actually the real master of Montenegro, not Milo Djukanovic. This was published in my book "Milo Djukanovic new Skender-beg Crnojevic". Several hundred we sent to a party in Montenegro to distribute through the people, but Milo's police have infiltrated our party almost the entire circulation illegally seized in fact he disappeared, destroyed without any paper. Now in Montenegro, a member of our party was arrested here, her accession to Branka Milic, a construction technician from Novi Sad, turned 61 a week ago. She's younger than me, though, but do you expect her to be a diversion, be a commando, and chase her there to bring Mil down? Do you know why she was arrested? Because Montenegrin police artificially mounted a group headed by General Dikovic of the mortally ill Dikic, death-sick General Dikic, and found Branka Milic, a prominent member of the SRS, and told some people that Milo Djukanovic is one of the biggest traitors of the Serbian people, someone tipped off to the police and is now in a group of 16 terrorists. And instead of condemning the regime in Belgrade all of what Milo Djukanovic is doing, in fact, the regime in Belgrade is trying to protect him in a certain way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to this book, I was almost 15 years ago the chairman of the Administrative Board of the two homes of the Federal Assembly who investigated the facts and circumstances of the murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic. We came up with concrete results and found that Ivan Belic, a hitman from Montenegro, was close to Mila Djukanovic and Brani Micunovic himself killed Pavol Bulatovic. And when we filed this report, I knew about the pain, and I knew how Djindjic would react, so I immediately shared with all the newsrooms the stenograms. So I published in the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought" a whole stenogram, and then in this book, the murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic, all the stenograms and those from the meeting of the Federal Assembly, and what happened? Our report was accepted in the Greater Republic, and then Milo Djukanovic and Zoran Djindjic agreed not to accept it in Vvec. Thus, only a decision to accept the report in the Greater Republic was published in the "Official List" SRJ. Since the two committees were actually independent, the only link between them was me as president, the fact that the Greater Republic accepted the report of its committee, which gave this legal power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4188	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4189	I call on Prime Minister Vukic and his government to urgently take action to eliminate all mafia clans from Montenegro in Serbia, of course, and the Serb clans and to publicly disclose what they know about Milo Djukanovic and his mafia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4190	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4191	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my question is specifically for Mr. Loncar's health minister, and it is about the events that followed after the tragic death of the boys at the hospital in Loznica, namely the shift of the 12 health centres in Serbia that followed. We could be instructed from public information funds that the Ministry of Health formed a commission consisting of four state secretaries and four directors of hospitals from Serbia, i.e. clinical and hospital centres, and that the commission visited hospitals across Serbia to make records that, on the basis of these records, the shift was carried out, once again, to repeat 12 directors, or health centres in Serbia. I am particularly interested in the shift of the Director of the Health Centre in Arangelovac, Dr Goran Blagojevic, because Dr Goran Blagojevic was a prominent surgeon and became the Director of the Health Centre in Arangelovac on 1 March 2013. When he became the director of the Health Centre, he inherited a debt of hospitals of about 1m euros and completely blocked all accounts of the same health center in Arangelovac. Today after three years is a completely different situation, the Health Center with the help of local self-government and the whole part of the Shumadia works well, but unfortunately we have seen from the funds of public information that Arangelovac was in the first place when the shift of all directors was announced. What I was able to get as information was that this commission, which was an hour and a half in control at the hospital in Arangelovac, had found certain irregularities first of all from, as I was told, hygiene and patient records. I, for the sake of the public above all, and for the sake of the people's MPs here, must say that when Dr Goran Blagojevic became director on 1 March 2013, he inherited 22 so-called. Housewives, or assistant workers, and today after three years and something due to the natural outflow of people in retirement are primarily workers who are in front of retirement, he has only 12 maids who clean up 5.5,000 squares at the hospital in Arangelovac. And now I'm asking myself, and I'm asking all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament if 12 auxiliary workers can serve and because of the public sector reception control, a no-receivement regulation could not be accepted as more employees just as auxiliary workers? What hurts me most as the MP coming from Šumadia, who comes from Topola, which is covered by a health center from Arangelovac, is one information that has also appeared unofficially in the means of public information to us in Šumadia, which is that Dr Goran Blagojevic, as director, will replace the wife of the director who was replaced in 2013 on March 1st, precisely because of the huge debts, once again, which were over one million euros, and where the hospital was totally blocked. Is it possible, so I ask the Minister of Health, Mr. Lonchar, that his wife is now being appointed V.D. The director of the health center? The health centre in Arangelovac and Dr Goran Blagojevic have done a lot of good for all the citizens of Šumadija in the past three years, and I especially want to note, a modern centre for laparopy, a large number of prominent surgeons who came primarily from the hospital centres in Belgrade to operate in the Arangelovac alone and to approach the patients from Šumadija that they do not have to transport to Belgrade and other clinical centres, but that doctors come to Arangelovac, obviously did not help to make such a hasty decision. I once again ask and appeal to both the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Loncar that this decision be reconsidered and that such hasty decisions were caused by tragic events in the hospital in Loznica, but that such hasty decisions are not made and that all the patients in Šumadia are not even more damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4192	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4193	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a question for Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Namely, my question is very simple – what is Serbia's foreign policy? It may seem too banal to ask this question, but I'll try to explain why I'm asking it. Recently, in a document by EU High Representative Federica Mogerini in Serbia's Progress Report, the EU will continue to call on Serbia to gradually agree with the EU's common foreign and security policy in line with the framework for EU membership talks with Serbia, meaning once again that it will call on Serbia to gradually coordinate foreign policy. To this, the minister, if we forget what he tried to be a prankster, responded seriously that Serbia has an independent foreign policy and that only when it is an EU member will it be able to talk about the establishment of a common foreign policy. I think my question is much clearer now, if it isn't, I'll try to explain it a little bit more. The minister is talking about Serbia and the EU will establish a common foreign policy. I don't know how the foreign minister imagines that the EU will change its foreign policy when it negotiates with Serbia? How can I tell you, it's a totally missed topic. What this government's policy, which we heard from the prime minister, is that it plans to bring this government into line by 2019 with EU policy and meet all the requirements of the negotiating process. We are not negotiating with the EU on changing EU policy, but adapting our policy, our EU institutions to become EU members. As a state, we expressed our desire to become members of the EU. In order for us to become one, we must meet the EU's requirements. No one is forcing us, but the expectations of the foreign ministry that the EU will change its policy for Serbia, and that we are establishing a common foreign policy with the EU is totally, let me not use a heavy word, I have no intention of insulting anyone. So my question was pretty simple – what does the Foreign Ministry do? What is the foreign policy of this country? If the prime minister said one thing, how does the Foreign Ministry think he's establishing a common policy with the EU? Of course, the minister tried to be a prankster, so he said he wasn't interested in that twisted diplomatic language, that he understood very well that he was actually thinking about sanctions for Russia. Okay, I'd like to have a foreign minister who uses diplomatic language. Unfortunately, we don't, we have a minister who prefers to sing, but well, that's how we chose. But then, with that in mind, I have another question for the foreign minister. Namely, do the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs recognise Ukraine's territorial integrity? To remind you, the Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that Serbia recognises Ukraine's territorial integrity. The foreign minister never said that, nor did the Ministry, so I'm still interested in what the foreign policy of this country is? Do we have two? We have one who's being conducted by the Prime Minister and the other by the foreign minister, or the Foreign Minister admits the annexation of Crimea by Russia, so we're neutral? One recognizes Ukraine's territorial integrity, the other acknowledges its annexation by Russia, and then we're as neutral. I'm afraid that's not a good way to go and that's not the foreign policy of a serious country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4194	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4195	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I question the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, and the question why is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and why has he given up its policy of managing the migrant crisis in the Republic of Serbia? Yesterday, the state abolished an asylum info centre located in downtown Belgrade. The Asylum Info Centre was founded in 2015 when a large number of refugees appeared in downtown Belgrade and is located to this day. The government of the Republic of Serbia then praised the country's best way to face and face the migrant crisis at its site when it opened the info centre. Yesterday, the info centre was abolished and thus the state decided that migrants, refugees located in downtown Belgrade, should be left exclusively to smugglers to resolve their fate and their path with them. This info centre had 37 volunteers and employees of translators who translated into Persian, Arabic and Urdu languages and had confidence in refugees and migrants in the park at the railway station. The info centre collected information and all information that was important for the security of citizens of Belgrade and shared for the security of the Republic of Serbia with the BIA and police. Police and security services reacted and prevented criminal acts and those related to smuggling and possible crimes committed by a migrant and refugee community based on this information. So now this center is being abolished by someone's decision. The representatives of the SNS defended themselves yesterday by obtaining such an order from the higher authorities. I ask the question – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia make that decision at an official meeting or did someone from the City of Belgrade make such a decision and order other state authorities to implement it? I think that citizens should know how difficult the situation we face is not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, and how difficult the situation is and how large the victims are suffered by people who are transiting through the Republic of Serbia. Since the start of the migration crisis on Europe's soil, 10,000 children have been missing. They're separated from their parents in the meantime and no longer have contact, and there's no record of where they are. This info centre managed to prevent it, I'll give you only two examples, a situation where two children of seven and eight years of age were in a park at a train station all alone on the target of smugglers. The Info Centre managed to get in touch with them, do a search through their team in Presevo and determine where the parents of these children are, they stayed in Presevo, and to reunite them, so that they could continue their journey together. A group of 13 minors arrived a while ago, asking for help from the info center to find the woman who took their fingerprints and told them – if you give them fingerprints, we will take you to Germany safely. Security services have been contacted. What was the assumption and reasonable doubt that fingerprints were taken by refugees, so that DNA would be taken and their ability to donate, i.e. to give organs to those who are looking for those organs in Europe. So this action and preventing it was initiated by the Center. I cannot understand that the state is cutting its own hand, which allows it to control the situation with migrants in the city of Belgrade, which abolishes a service that directs all migrants, transports and pushes into accommodation facilities organised by the Republic of Serbia, for example in Krnjaca. The result of this is that we will have more migrants in the park at the railway station in Belgrade and that the security of the citizens of Belgrade will be much more endangered than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4196	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, my first question was addressed to Mr. Vujovic. Do you know that the majority owner of AIK bank a.d. Mr. Miodrag Kostic and his firm in an effort to become a 100% owner of this bank, and of course by buying small shareholders' shares significantly below the book value, or at the cost of 1,800 dinars, instead of the price of 5.555 dinars? At one point, the Commercial Court in Belgrade stopped this purchase of small shareholders' shares at such a humiliating price. However, these efforts remain ongoing. How do majority owners knock down stock prices relatively good, in this case, banks? By using government engineers from the NBS, the Central Register for HOV sets prices two to three times lower than the market and thus allows mainly tycoons to take action. In the same way, I ask the Minister to check, and the EPS, a state-owned company, sold its shares in AIK Bank, 316,927 ordinary shares at the price of 1,740 dinars and by selling 145,588 priority actions at the cost of 954 dinars, which is the opposite of a decision by the Serbian government to sell its shares, sold the value of the shares for six million, and the value of these shares is 20m euros. Will one of the EPS managers be responsible for this damage to the state-owned company? The second question is also about banking. It's been four years since the winding down of Agrobank. The private property of the shareholders of this bank was poured into the pockets of a tycoon of close authorities and then probably individual politicians. When will the assets be returned to Agrobank shareholders and when will they be compensated? The third question was also addressed to the finance minister. Today, the next round of negotiations with the IMF begins and one of the topics will be the only Serbian domestic bank -- Postage Savings Bank. Of course, its financial consolidation is due by the end of the year. The oldest bank currently has 114 exposures, two million clients and 1,500 employees after the takeover of both clients and deposits of failed domestic banks - Privredne Banka Belgrade, Agrobanka, University of Banka, Vojvodine Development Banka, of course it is burdened and that capital adequateness is significantly below the limit. At this point there are no formal reasons for privatisation, but I ask the question – will the state, from the Serbian budget, the taxpayers' money, consolidate this bank and thus prepare it for privatisation? The fourth question is addressed to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Knezevic, until when do we think that by seizing subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget and giving the same foreign companies, we are making it very difficult for domestic companies and is it true that the budget will be allocated 4.4m euros and will be given to the British IT company "Endava", of course, with the claim that they will create over 300 jobs and employ workers as much? In the opinion of the domestic IT sector, domestic IT experts, who are otherwise deficited in our country, will mainly spill over into foreign companies that will be unfair to domestic companies and thus significantly damage the domestic IT sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4198	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4199	Honored chairman, respected fellow MPs, several questions for different ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Starting with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, whom I would like to ask – why he allowed himself such a relationship in a subordinate and humiliating position compared to the Prime Minister of Albania, Edi Ramu, who directly, while staying in Belgrade, advocated the creation and recognition of so-called "Administer". An independent Kosovo by the state of Serbia? Would any other independent state allow itself to have a representative of another state in diplomatic visit that denies its continent, or territorial sovereignty and integrity? How about if the Serbian Prime Minister visited Albania and asked that Skadar, as an ancient Serbian city, be returned to Serbia or the Serbian state? The second issue concerns the already mentioned topics of Montenegro, and why does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia put aside the mounted stories of the ruling regime in Montenegro and not protect the interests of Serbian citizens arrested in Montenegro? Why is there talk in the interest of official stories of the Montenegrin regime all the time, rather than talking about election thefts in Montenegro or harassing everything that is Serbian in Montenegro? I think that would be a much more important topic that the Serbian Prime Minister should be dealing with. Also, we want to know the names of the spies who were discovered in Serbia, otherwise all of what the Bureau of Security Co-ordination is doing with Alexander Vukic, who said five years ago that he would no longer be headed by that Bureau, will actually see him as the new reality show. If there were really arrests, let's hear what people have been arrested in connection with the Montenegrin case, who was arrested by agents from the West and East, who work for foreign embassies at the Police Administration, etc. Give me your names, otherwise it's a new reality show by Alexander Wolfich. For the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is it possible that out of 61 formed groups of friendships, parliamentary groups of friendships in the Serbian Parliament, the opposition cannot get any presidency, and this specifically refers to the Dveri parliamentary group? Was it not logical that we had some equal representation towards power in parliament and in the presidential positions in these parliamentary groups of friendships? Also, I want to ask a question on behalf of Agrobank shareholders, four years later, can we know what the fate of Agrobank and all its shareholders is? Their statement makes it clear that the private assets of Agrobanka shareholders have been spilled into the pockets of political parties and their close tycoons, and what remains of the suspected law has been transferred to the Post Office or a highly suspicious bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted. For all of these, there are no representatives of the State in the Management Board of Agrobanka, in the NBS, Deposit Insurance Agency, Ministry of Finance, i.e. in all those in charge of the work and control of its development and business. The extremely important announcement I need is precisely from finance ministers, businesses and justice on the status of all Serbian, domestic, national banks destroyed from October 5th to today, from Beobanka, Investbanka, Jugobanka, to Agrobanka, Business Banka, Universal Banka, Serbian Banka. So we want to hear about the Serbian banks that someone purposely destroyed so that foreign banks will rule our market today. These domestic banks still exist, to see how they exist, what their fate and their current status are. A very important issue to the economy minister about what the Serbian Dvora Movement has been talking about years ago, which is multi-annual corruption and crime in local self-government units and territorial autonomy and the accidental spending of the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and all of this is now proven by the information of the DRI, which claims that in 2008-2014 unintended spending of nearly six billion dinars or about 59 billion euros. So, twice as much as Serbia's external debt, someone purposelessly spent over the past six years. 1364 criminal and criminal charges, whose epilogue we don't know, have been filed, so we're interested in the epilogue of these criminal and criminal charges and whether they're out of date. So, twice as much as Serbia's external debt, someone purposelessly spent over the past six years. There have been 1364 criminal and criminal charges, whose epilogue we don't know, so we're interested in the epilogue of these criminal and criminal charges and whether they're out of date. I am also extremely interested in whether the correct information is that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has added to his team a certain Zakari Heris, who will be in charge of special projects in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which he has previously worked in Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina? So, Montgomery and Tony Blair, did we get another American advisor in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4200	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4201	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to begin by thanking the Ministry of Health for a truly correct work and cooperation with the city of Novi Pazar, and this has indeed resulted in significant projects since the construction of a magnificent diagnostic centre that we have completed our equipment, of course with the help of foreign donations, through the establishment of the Public Health Institute, which has restored to Novi Pazar the status which he had previously and which is being taken into account from Novi Pazar public health in Novi Pazar, Tutin and the region around these centres. But I want to invite the Minister of Health on this occasion to continue this co-operation and as soon as we realise the Angel-Sala project, it is undeniable that it is necessary and the more urgent this end is, and that is the conclusion that we have had in all the talks with this ministry. I know that they have seriously entered the project of this realization, but once again, I would like to invite them to implement and install an angio-hall in Novi Pazar as soon as possible, so that this end of Serbia is covered by this way of treating people with cardiovascular heart disease. Also, a colleague mentioned that after this unfavorable event certain directors had been replaced. I believe that my colleague Jovanovic is familiar and I believe that it was a matter of quality. Similarly, it happened in Priboj where a brilliant neurologist, Jasminko Toskic, was replaced, and I think we should take care of the staff that should really be preserved in our health system. Of course the ministry's move is good. Control, better control of the work of hospitals on the ground is certainly a good thing and I want that the removal of certain directors is not terrible. We advocate the principles of exchangeability and I would like to call on the Ministry of Health to continue, as in the last term, to, above all, legal solutions, quality solutions, above all, at the level of the Ministry of Health and to continue to control the work of these hospitals inland and thus raise the level of health care in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4202	Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer my question to the Prime Minister, who will forward it to the ministers to answer. First, it is related to the application of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. The law came into force on 12.08.2015. and I think both of us across from you, that they are applying the way they should be applied, that there are many mistakes, many problems, many things we shouldn't allow. A particular issue is about obtaining consent in hiring new people. I remember, a while back, a few years ago, I didn't get the consent I asked to hire two pharmacists who retired. So it was so rigorous, and now that's not the case. At the same time, now that the law is in force, you have one case that just in Kragujevac an ad is being called for the reception of two mayoral and mayoral secretaries and they are being admitted indefinitely, aside from 700 employees in Kragujevac in the administration, besides 20 drivers. So the law is not applied or applied in the way that it suits someone that I am more or less close to the authorities. I am looking for an answer to the question about local self-government, and I think of cities when I ask this – is the law fully applied in all cities, where - yes, where - no, and especially very important, it seems to me to all of us – how many people worked in the public sector in all cities individually when the law came into force on 12.08. and here we are today on 25 October? And how many people have retired every city during that period? It's a very important piece of information for all of us, and it's going to help us, I think. The second question is I think it's also very relevant. We are witnessing that very often, almost for 15 days, a month we have either the beginning of building a factory, or the opening of a factory, which is good and what we welcome, we would like to see more of it. Unfortunately, it's not like that, and we hear all the time that there's been an increase in the number of people who got a job indefinitely in this country. We think it's not because even where this new factory is being opened, if it's 100 workers, one 200, 300 workers in that town are doing less work. Let's say that a third of the workers work less because of the problems we have. They can be real, they can be people who aren't. So I'm looking for an answer to the question, a very important question seems to me, how many people have been working for a full time, so on October 25, 2012, and what is that number now? So let's very clearly see if we're right or if you're right. The third question is the question of life. It seems to me, too, that every day is worse in this country than in the previous day. It's a fact, like the fact that in the environment it's not like that. And you all know it well. The reasons exist or don't exist, it doesn't matter. We say it is and we defend it in every way. So I'm asking you to answer that question if this is true. We know what statistics are and to answer the question right from 2012 until now, how has the average wage and consumer basket ratio been since 2012 been? It's very important for all of us, given what we're doing, so I ask you that this question has a certain importance and that I get an answer to that question. The last question for that part where I live is very important. When will the highway or the first row of Kragujevac-Lapovo be completed? The road or the highway or the front row road was supposed to be finished three years ago. You know the contract with the Fiat as important as it was, it's not over yet. Although ministers have promised, although the current minister, Mrs Zorana has promised it firmly, it will be completed by the end of next year, but I pray to receive in writing, because one thing is to say and deny it, and the other is to write and deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4204	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4205	I thank the chairman. I'm not going to ask unsolicited questions like what diplomacy is or what foreign policy is, especially that question I'm not going to ask the foreign minister. The foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is precisely defined and clearly and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has consistently and responsibly implemented such a policy, particularly in the interests of the protection of the state of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who doesn't understand that has a serious problem or is thinking the opposite of protecting the interest of the Serbian State. I'm asking for a notice from the VSS, the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Finance for the following reasons. There are about 3,000 judges in the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia. A significantly smaller number, but extremely high-quality judges with the highest professional references are judges who are represented in the studies of the republican rank. Let's say there are about 30 judges in the Supreme Court of Cassation, as many as there are in the Court of Commerce. These judges, in accordance with the provisions of the previously applicable Law on Judges, were entitled to compensation for a separate life. Unfortunately, by decision of the Constitutional Court, that compensation which has been regulated and systematised in the Law, by the provision of Articles 16 and 42 respectively. The law on judges has been abolished. The question arises - which is why the judges of the Republic rank are motivated that if they are deprived of the compensation for a separate life, if they are deprived of transport costs, if all comes down to the earnings of judges from whom they will finance accommodation, the cost of living in courts of the Republic, how will they be motivated to work in courts where they are elected and in the places of the holders of judicial functions they are located? Of course the motivation is losing. We are coming to a dangerous situation that we will have in Belgrade, in the Supreme Cassation Court, the Belgrade court of Belgrade, because it is logical that then the most motivated will be judges from Belgrade alone. For example, in the Court of Commerce, there are about a third of judges from the inside, certainly the highest-quality judges. If they were to be taken away from the privileges that had been defined by law, the question would be asked: Who will replace these judges by quality, by expertise, according to all that they give in the judicial system? Of course, the Ministry of Justice, led by Minister Selakovic earlier, thought about it and that this is why the compensation for the separate lives of judges was defined, as well as the costs of transport and everything else. The Constitutional Court has made a decision as it has made and in the Constitutional Court's verdict one cannot engage, nor can we comment on it, but what is important is for the sake of protecting the interests of Serbian citizens, for the sake of the availability of justice, to keep the judges in their seats, and for those of the highest quality. Of course, this should take into account the need to also respect the constitutionally guaranteed principle, the prohibitions of discrimination, as judges of senior judges, travel judges, etc. should have the same right. But if the judicial system doesn't lay down principles that mean protecting the best, the most qualitative and the most professional, I'm afraid that the vulnerable state of justice will become even more vulnerable. This ministry and the previous ministry have made a significant contribution to repairing such a situation and correcting mistakes from some earlier periods, especially since 2010. If this problem that I afirmed today, protecting the interests of judges who need to be reimbursed for a separate life, is not defined in a positive way, this problem can be deepened. That is why I believe that everyone I have called and asked for information in this direction should contribute to the judges of the republican rank, above all, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade for protection, and that judges from the interior are able to continue to have compensation for their separate lives and transport costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4206	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4207	Thank you. I'd like to ask the police department a question, and it's about the issue of issuing and replacing ID cards that have to be completed by the end of this year. Remember, in 2008, the law was passed that all ID cards had to be replaced by biometric ID cards, in 2011, that deadline was extended, but we are witnessing that a large number of us and our people living in rural parts of our Serbia, such as the southeast of Serbia, a large number of such people, old people, are very difficult to end up going to the home police station, replacing, changing and thus providing themselves with a personal document in the coming period. I suggest that the competent ministry, in co-operation with the Ministry of Local Self-Government and with local self-government, take the help of people who work in the field as heads of the local community's local offices and thus help old, out-of-date people, persons who do not have a certain degree of disability, and we have witnessed and it is known that people who have a certain degree of disability are not mobile, that when that document is brought to the competent police station, that they can go there and, on the spot to take a print, to take a picture and to end the ID card. A large number of old people, such as southeast Serbia, cannot do so, but we can, with the help of local offices, head of local offices, help police officers, because we are witnessing that a large number of police officers have retired, and in 2013, the Law on the ban on reception was passed, so that the Serbian Republic's MUP does not have enough workers. I would ask and ask a question one more time - is there any possibility that the MUP can provide more workers, that we should end up replacing the ID cards in all parts of our Serbia, and in particular I mean rural areas, of old people who can't go to finish this job? The same question I would ask RFZO, because it is now mandatory and replacing health books, because it is also a big problem because if our farmers, people living in our villages, can't leave, they have the opportunity to do so to their loved ones. It is the same proposal that the Ministry of Local Self-Government be involved, that local self-government with its local offices be much more active and help these old, unsettled people to replace their personal documents. I am also a witness in the conversation with people and I saw that this is a big problem because within two months, the deadline for changing the ID card and for changing the health card, and we know that the mountainous areas have a problem, that these villages can't even go, or come from these villages to replace the ID card, to replace the health book, and therefore I point one more question to our people in the ministry – to provide at least for the next 60 days to help the service finish it. Otherwise, the police service and the Serbian Ministry of Police are doing their job properly, responsibly and precisely for the benefit of all our citizens, but we need to find the opportunity to finish what has been started, to complete and replace our ID cards and help people in the mountainous and mountainous areas that need it. We know that certain elections are coming in a few months, and it wouldn't be right for those people who live in such areas, not for their personal documents, to be able to give their vote for someone they value and respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4208	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4209	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question we raise is a question for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of State Administration and local self-government. Namely, a restaurant named "Salon 1905" operates in the building of the Geozovod in Karajordjevo 48 in Belgrade. On the fiscal cut that is issued in the restaurant itself as a taxpayer, the company O5SO d.o.o. from Zemun is listed. This building is otherwise categorized as a cultural good of great importance. The existence of a restaurant in this address is contrary to the Law on Public Property which says that public matters cannot be subletted and a contract on the lease of immovable property signed between the Republic of Serbia i.e. Republic Directorates for Assets and Business Company “Belgrade on Water” d.o.o. It is also contrary to the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Although the prime minister is familiar with the government's conclusion, even if only on official duty, he was happy to see a guest of this restaurant on several occasions. We ask you – how is it possible and what legal form is the business of this restaurant in the address of Karajordjeva 48 in Belgrade justified? In what way is a privileged group of people, and with the knowledge of the prime minister, allowed to violate regulations and use state property for profit? The second question is referred to the prime minister: According to data published by the Republic Statistics Institute, the country has been estimated to have left about 175 thousand people over the past 10 years. In 2014 alone, Serbia lost more than 7,000 higher education students, and between 2007 and 2014, as many as 27,500 highly educated people went away. Speaking of these terrible numbers, which speak much more clearly about the real economic situation in the country, it is important to state the following information: In the same period, the number of immigrants from Serbia grew from 27,000 to 58,000, which is more than 29% compared to 2013 in 2014. We can't even think about what the data looks like for 2015 or for the current year. Since Serbia is now leaving not only young and educated, but all those who have a chance to go somewhere in the Republic Statistics Institute estimate that in 2041, every fourth resident in Serbia would be over 65 years old. We ask the prime minister – How does he think that subsidies to foreign investors of 10, 20 and more thousand euros per employee, to create jobs for cheap labour and to continue party employment of people with bought diplomas, stop our children from running from Serbia? How can he not see the connection between these two things? A question for the prime minister:After the Security Co-ordination Bureau meeting, the prime minister held an extraordinary press conference yesterday. The prime minister explained extensively that he can't tell us anything from the many data he knows and very skillfully, almost with the scene effects, he's tried to show us the dangers in which Serbia, which is intertwined with spies, both from the West and from the East, and how he personally protects us from all these dangers. Following citizens' reactions, the most common question was – what did the prime minister say or wanted to tell us and whether to make oil and flour supplies? We ask the prime minister – What does alleged spy Luka P have to do with the elections in Montenegro? What are the secret services of the East and the West against which the Prime Minister looks naked and fights himself? Why does he scare the citizens of Serbia, when he has no information for them, except that he protects them himself? We ask the President of the Assembly: Why did she allow Mr Igor Becic's proposal to unite the Law on Ports and Navigation and Air Traffic with the Republic of Korea and discuss six loan laws of nearly 1.2 billion euros today in front of MPs? Does he understand that this violates Article 157(2)? The Rules of Procedure, which says that the debate can only be brought together for laws which are mutually conditional or interrelated. What is the conditionality and association of ports, navigation and traffic with the Republic of Korea? What is the conditionality and connection of loans to support the budget, for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, for the construction of a prison in Kragujevac, for apartments for people who have lost homes from earthquakes in the Kingdom, loans for state administration reform and the creation of a regional fund based in Tirana? We ask the President of the Assembly not to abuse his position as chairman and answer these questions orally, but to respect the Rules of Procedure and to answer in writing, within 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4210	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4211	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will ask the Ministry of Economy, Minister Goran Knezevic and the Ministry of Finance, Minister Dusan Vujovic. The issue concerns the conduct of the bankruptcy king, Mr. Sasa Radulovic, a man who constantly talks and praises entrepreneurship, and criticises everything that is state and public, but when it comes to his private interest, then finds him only in working with the state. We all live upstairs because the system allows the minority to live well on the back of most. This is a sentence from the Association of Citizens of the DJB.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4212	Comrade Micin, you may stand while the MPs disturb you. That's how long we'll extend your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4213	How hypocritical this finding is in the case of the king of bankruptcy, because we all know that Mr. Radulovic was a bankruptcy manager and trustee of the bankruptcy centre in many enterprises and his task was to successfully carry out the bankruptcy procedure in these companies and to take the compensation that belongs to him. In eight years, however, Mr Radulovic conducted 17 bankruptcy proceedings, only five of which were successfully completed, but it did not prevent him from taking 20 million dinars from Serbian citizens for preliminary fees and fees for regular expenses, while still remaining 14 million dinars. So, Mr. Radulovic, who is employed by the state body of the Republic of Serbia, is constantly criticising public enterprises, the government, and 20 plus 14 million dinars are taken from the same state and its citizens without pardon. Yes, we all live up there, because the system allows a minority like Sasa Radulovic to live well on the back of most people, i.e. on the back of Serbian citizens. How would the citizens know who really is Mr. Radulović and how he lives on their backs, please answer me how many total bankruptcy proceedings were conducted and led by Mr. Sasa Radulović and in which companies? How many of these procedures have been completed, and how much is the total compensation he has made and which belongs to him as a bankruptcy manager and bankruptcy trustee in all the proceedings he is conducting? The second question I will ask the MUP, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. At a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last Thursday, my dear opposition colleague, Novi Sad, criticised one of the most important investments in Novi Sad and certainly one of the most important investments in Serbia. It is an investment by the US company Lir, which will employ 2,000 people in Novi Sad. She said the citizens would pay for the damages because the city didn't build a factory in time and how they could see the factory skeleton, which wasn't finished before it got out on the highway. However, unfortunately, my dear colleague has knowingly or unconsciously deceived the citizens of Serbia, because this skeleton that is visible is the future distribution centre of the company "Universport", and 300 meters ahead, I will now show you what a factory that will employ 2,000 of our citizens looks like. Here, that's that skeleton, the most modern factory, 28,000 squares over. It shows pictures. ) In record time built, the fastest-issued building permit in Serbia. This is a message for all investors, so you know. This is what it looks like in there. 2,000 people will work there and this is what it looks like, gentlemen. It's that skeleton, here, to see the MPs. Look. There will be 2,000 people, plus 3,000 people working at the Delfi company, so 5,000 new jobs in Novi Sad. That's how the government of Alexander Vukic does it. And what does the former regime do? Look, gentlemen, this is a skeleton, you see, it's the Hetherland Castle in Bochar near New Vienna, where the former regime gentlemen have embezzled a million and a half euros. There were supposed to be children with special needs. Unfortunately, however, no one can be housed in this area, and that's how it is today. For this, of course, a criminal procedure has been initiated, so I will ask the Minister of the Interior – at what stage is the current criminal procedure for abuses in the reconstruction of the Hetherland Castle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4214	Thank you. Since no one to the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, is answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Meho Omerović, Milena Bicanin, Dijana Vukomanovic and Dejan Šulkić. You were presented the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 4, 5, 6 and 7 October 2016. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 31, of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held 4, 5, 6 and 7 October 2016. With the call of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting the act on the agenda under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and proposals for bringing the debate together. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation, ports on internal waters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The vote was - 129, v - 12, abstention - one, did not vote - 19, out of a total of 161 MPs. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Western Balkans Fund with the Statute of the Western Balkans Fund, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. He voted for it -- 131 against -- 15, did not vote -- 17, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for Budgetary Support, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. 132 MPs, against 22, did not vote 11 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic proposed to put on the agenda an amendment to the Law on Income Tax, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one who was abstentioned, one of the seven Messengers, who voted 155, of the 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic proposed that the draft law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one, the abstentioned one, who voted for it - 152 out of a total of 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one, the abstentioned one, who voted for it; there was no vote of 152, out of a total of 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic have proposed to put on the agenda the proposal for a resolution on Serbia and Kosovo, a partnership and responsibility for security, stability and development, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There is no vote in favour of the four Messengers, against the four abstentions, 155 of the people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's MP suggested putting the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2016, on an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one, the abstentioned one, who voted for it – 147 of the Messengers of the people; there was no vote of 16 among the 163 messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Social Democratic League's Group of MPs, Vojvodina - The Green Party, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one who was abstentioned, 22, out of the 164 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The MP group Enough, he proposed to put the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2016, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one, the abstentioned, who had not voted 13 out of the 164 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There was no one, the abstentioned, who had not been voted by 26 messengers, of a total of 164 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4215	Thank you. The MPs who were MPs in the previous meeting will remember that at the end of this call we have passed the Law on Agricultural Land, which we have made a large number of injustices towards farmers in Serbia. One of the most indicated is a member who allows every president of the municipality in Serbia to apply even a third of the state-owned agricultural land, located on the territory of the municipality, without any public call, without any clear criteria for a 99-year period. We were against it at the time. The reason why we thought it was bad, which is why we're saying it's bad, is that in Serbia 9,000 families live exclusively from renting state-owned agricultural land, and the number of families that survive because they rent and process state-owned agricultural land is even bigger. When you allow the investor, and call it "investor", because in law we don't have any conditions that that person needs to meet in order for you to consider him an investor, to take 30% of the state's agricultural land in one municipality, you will in fact make it impossible for those families to continue to live on it, you will cut off their only sources of income and you will force their children to be rent workers on agricultural land that your business partners will process. When we talked about the law, it was said that one part of Serbia's agricultural land is inhospitable. We talked about that not every agricultural land of equal quality, and I'm guessing your business partners won't take away farmland that's inhospitable, or agricultural land that's infertile, but they'll probably take away farm land that's the best quality in that community. Which means that these families, who live out of taking and processing farm land in state property, will remain either agricultural land which is insufferable or agricultural land that is extremely poor quality, and your business partners in each municipality will receive the best agricultural land without any criteria, without any public competition, without any public call and with one procedure that is absolutely transparent. By this law I suggest that we change it and make some criteria based on which these people will be able to get agricultural land for rent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4216	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against - no one, abstentioned – one, voted 114 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4217	I, colleagues and colleagues, have been thinking about whether it is a shame that I, for the 40th time, ask you to include crimes that do not go out of date – baby theft. Then I realized it was a shame, but it's not my shame. It's a shame you don't adopt it. It's a shame you didn't explain in any word why you're 40 times refusing to introduce a single amendment into the Criminal Code, which is that in crimes that don't go into obsolescence, the crime of stealing babies. I'm asking you again to make a deal on this bill. I'm asking you to talk about him, I'm going to give up that law, I'm going to propose him on the Women's Parliamentary Network, I'm going to agree to any kind of agreement, just so that we can meet these people, because you can't imagine the amount of accident, injustice and mistreatment that these people have been exposed to and the amount of new humiliation after all they've suffered when they're told that they can't ask for justice anymore because someone stole their child from the hospital and told them that this child died because the crime is out of date. This is one of the biggest mysteries I face personally in this House, which is why you don't want this amendment to be entered into the Criminal Code. I'm not gonna talk anymore, I'm just gonna ask you to think about it, and I'm just gonna ask you to think about why you don't support this amendment to the law, and I'm calling on anyone who's interested in meeting me, these parents, to talk to them, and I believe that anyone who meets them next time will vote for it, and they won't wait for the chairman to press the bells. I really don't know why we're running to be MPs if this is the kind of thing we're going to be waiting for to vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4218	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, it did not vote – 121 out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4219	Thanks to the chairman. In 2012, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020 in more than the same composition as it is now. The strategy also mentions higher education, and the government set targets for how higher education should look in 2020. We have two and a half more school years to implement this Strategy and I would like to make a law that will allow what it says in the Strategy to really happen by 2020 and implement it. Among other things, it says that by 2020 the Republic of Serbia will have at least 38.5 and then at least 40% of highly educated citizens in 30-34 years. My question to the Ministry is how many people like that are there today? We already need to know today whether this goal will be met, because all those who are due to finish in 2020 colleges have already had to enroll in those colleges. Then, the planned tax proportions of academically educated citizens should be achieved in those academic areas that are priority for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, particularly in the field of technical and natural sciences. Do we know if we're meeting that condition? Do we really enroll students strengthened in those areas that will contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia in the field of natural and technical sciences or do we enroll in the mass of those professions that end up children who have no place to work, who do not meet this goal? Then it is said that academic studies are available to everyone, especially those from socially endangered families who are marginalized in any way. Our academic studies are absolutely inaccessible to poor kids today. Our poor kids don't even make it to college. Their parents are raising loans so they can train them and they work themselves to be able to school, we're removing local self-government even funds for Jubilee Prizes for teachers, let alone to help a child get out of school, which could not reach the university, and I'm just calling on us to adopt a law that will allow this strategy to be fulfilled. This entire government was behind that strategy. If the Strategy is not good, then it should not be fulfilled, if you should let us adopt a law that will allow it, whether we change the Strategy or change the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4220	I thank my colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 21, abstention – one, 136 of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, on the basis of article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board, to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for -13, it did not vote - 147 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: nine voted for, 150 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that seven voted for it, 153 out of 160 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that four voted for it, not 156 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that six voted for it, 155 of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, at the ram of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4221	Thank you. So, our schools are bad. Kids come out of them so they don't learn anything. They sit therein, and learn by heart what is said to them. School conditions are worse than those conditions they have at home, these are conditions that are neither for children nor for people. Our textbooks are old, our programs are old, too. Teachers are not trained to teach children the latest ways in which they are now being done throughout the developed world. Schools are full of violence. There's no support for children from sensitive families. There's talk of ending some schools. The number of departments decreases, and the number of children increases in them. They don't have schools, not even toilets, not heating. The children in them are hungry. No libraries, no Internet, no election classes, their bags are too heavy. They do not develop as personalities, as people think, as future responsible and serious citizens of this country. Every creativity in children, in our schools is killed. At all costs, they must be placed in molds, which allow teachers to work easier with them in these outdated ways, out-of-date plans and out-of-date programs. The inclusion in our schools didn't live at all. These children are still a necessary evil in the department, not equal disciples. We need the training of the directors because the directors are mostly sitting in places where they are and are unable to manage schools for decades. There's no professional teacher development, there's no teacher evaluation based on what they've learned at a number of seminars they're going to. Kids don't even know how to interpret texts they read at the same time. They go bad on all the international tests. They're doing a bad graduation. Bad guys like that come to high school. High school vocational education is even worse than primary school education. Children from high school practically don't even have a chance at college because they're not used to learning, or working, or knowing what it looks like in college. School doesn't have any educational role. The kids are running away from class. Teachers are missing class. Kids don't have any sense of belonging to school. The poor children are not allowed to continue their education. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4222	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 24, abstentioned one, did not vote 133 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that five voted for it, 153 out of 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: the vote was seven, not 152 out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that seven voted for it, 153 out of 160 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, at the ram of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4223	Thank you. The law on textbooks is the last link in this vicious cycle of bad education. It is not known whether textbooks as a basic teaching tool are the result or cause of what education looks like to us today, and it certainly does not look good. We had the Law on textbooks, which, according to the minister himself, was brought under the ultimate pressure of some blackmailer who didn't want to appoint, which is why he had repeatedly withdrawn, changed, corrected the law, and eventually left everything exactly as the pressurers wanted to be in it. Our textbooks are still too expensive, too heavy, and very often incorrect. With too expensive, too heavy, too large, too numerous and incorrect textbooks, I don't think we can expect our education to be good. Parents are forced to buy textbooks that children absolutely do not use. Teachers are, for who knows which time, marked as the source of corruption in the whole dirty business and the vast market in trade in textbooks. I think it's terribly unfair for teachers. If there are any abuses, then the law should deal with publishers, not teachers who may be involved, or may not participate. Our textbooks are full of prejudice. In them, women can only be seen as mothers, cooks, maids. If they have some kind of occupation, it's kind of a nurse's profession, nurse's or something. There are no children with any developmental disturbances in those textbooks. Children growing up in families that are in any way different from how the idea that the family should look in those textbooks is gone. They're full of false information. The law we passed obviously did not resolve a single question, when it comes to the quality of the textbook, and it did not solve what was advertised as the greatest advantage of that law, i.e. that it will solve the corruption problem that is evident in our schools, with me claiming that corruption comes from publishers, not teachers. The bill I'm giving is trying to solve at least part of these problems that our textbooks have, and we should talk about it in a package with all the other laws dealing with our education system, which produces people who aren't what we should have if we want to develop as a society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4224	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – two, abstentions – no, 132 of the 160 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4225	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a meeting with the Retirement Union of Serbia. They are determined to end this withdrawal of pensions that have been obtained fairly and bloodyly during the life span of the pensioner. They asked for support. Of course they'll get that support from us. Who knows what time I'm proposing a law on the return of kidnapped pensions for the reason that someone's worked fair their whole lives, paid taxes and contributions in time and acquired their property. So the pension is the property that the government of the Republic of Serbia took away from those who worked for it. The point that we're talking about here is that after what the government of the Republic of Serbia did for the so-called so-called. The consolidation of budgets anywhere in the world could not happen again, but the constitutional courts of similar intentions of other governments have narrowed down both in Greece and Portugal, both in Italy and in Spain, and will never be clear to us why the Serbian Constitutional Court did not want to assess the constitutionality of the pension law. Seven hundred thousand pensioners you've kidnapped today can't pay their bills, today they can't help their grandchildren who are studying, who aren't working, they can't eat. You have discriminated against that part of the pensioner who has really spent his entire life building this country, making this system and in the most honest way contributed to this society. In 2000, the Democratic Party returned leftover and stolen pensions. Not only are we going to end this law and get our pensions back, but we're going to return everything that's been taken away, as a difference from what they've been receiving so far. I think it is very important that, as MPs, you realize that you have life-threatening, you have put more than 700,000 pensioners at risk, who you have counter-constitutionally taken away from what they have created and built their whole lives. It's their property, and it's like if someone from the house took away a piece of furniture or a piece of valuable property, you took someone's honest work away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4226	Bring the end, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4227	I think it's very important that this point is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4228	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Can I finish the sentence, Mr Arsic? I gave you a chance, my colleague Bozovic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 136 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on the termination of the law on the validation of the agreement on the co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4229	Thank you. So this agreement between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates has led to the fact that tycoons, as SNS business partners, provide themselves with even greater assets at the expense of resources and taxpayers, Serbian citizens. More than three billion euros will be required for Serbian citizens to take out their poor pockets and pay the tycoons from the United Arab Emirates to make one's dream a reality, a dream about "Belgrade on Water". It's not the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and we've been saying that all this time. We cannot build the future of this country, by making the tycoons richer, and making the citizens of Serbia even poorer. The tycoons from the United Arab Emirates do not pay taxes to the city of Belgrade, nor to the Republic of Serbia by this agreement, and they all have to pay Serbian citizens as much as they want, as domestic investors, to invest in this country or as citizens who pay their bills neatly, pay taxes on a monthly and annual basis. It is very important that such agreements be abolished because one small group of individuals, who are billionaires in another country, seems privileged in Serbia, because they received free land under this agreement, has been allowed to gain huge wealth, and all of this is paid by Serbian citizens with their reduced salaries and pensions. We cannot build society by enabling them to earn more money, and we cannot allow young people in Serbia to have the education they deserve, the job they deserve, but 59,000 people have left Serbia in the last year. How do we plan to form some interest in the future if our young people, our capable personnel leave the country, and the tycoons from the United Arab Emirates have the right to build whatever they want beyond the law, past the Constitution, and are free of all taxes and payments, which applies to all citizens of Serbia. I think this agreement is very bad, that it is not in the interests of the Serbian citizens, that it is not in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its assets, that in this way the arches of resources that are very few and that in this way the resources of the Republic of Serbia are actually given to the partners, the tycunskki SNS, and we are in favour of abolishing this agreement until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4230	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 24, abstention – one, did not vote – 131 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water" which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4231	Thank you. I propose that the Law on the Elimination of Drugs, namely the construction of Beograda on Water, be put on the agenda for a simple reason, and I am sorry that Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, who has been in the O.R. for a short time, personally and this government has allowed the Expropriation Act to donate a billion euro worth of land to an Arab investor and thus to kidnap citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, and on the other hand, to give the sum to someone who is close to the top of the state and to the top of the SNS. We can't say that it's a public interest when someone is building a private bar, shopping mall and a hotel with apartments of 3,500 euros per square. What do the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia have? Where's the public interest in that? And that's why we said that "Belgrade on Water" is an exclusive scam that someone is trying to cloud the eyes of Serbian citizens. There's no construction industry that's been launched based on this project. We directly invested half a billion euros, and we have apartments that will buy only those who are tycoons tomorrow, both abroad and in Serbia. Who today has the money to buy a 3,500-euro apartment per square? Apparently only the top of the country or those who are close friends of the top of the state. So it's not a public interest in Serbia. Public interest in Serbia would be if those half a billion euros paid directly by the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia would be invested in a cultural, scientific and technological park, in apartments that have 30 squares that cost 900 euros per square cent, to offer this to our best scientists, to our best students, to our prominent businessmen, to call an international competition for an idea solution. Indeed, we should not be insinuating ourselves before the world and not mocking Belgrade with Arab projects of which the city of Belgrade absolutely has absolutely nothing, and it is losing its identity, but that we are actually making a Belgrade opera there, to create public space, public galleries that can be used by all citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. The project would launch a construction industry and the project would create a new centre for Belgrade, but it would be a public interest in the cultural, scientific and technological park where big companies, such as Google, Amazon, Epla, could come tomorrow, to simply launch a high-tech industry and thus develop Serbia in one other and better way, compared to this pattern that is now under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4232	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 22, did not vote – 132 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibility of the highest authorities on the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's district of Savavala and the fact of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4233	So, after six months, there was a thing that rocked the image of the city of Belgrade that to this extent threatened the rule of law in Serbia, that we could only be ashamed of ourselves as MPs, eventually and as citizens. Because there was the biggest shame for Belgrade City in modern history that 30 thieves with phantoms destroyed a neighborhood in downtown Belgrade without anyone answering. That police did not want to respond to calls, that the head of the municipal police in Belgrade, which is said to be the personal security of the SNS in Belgrade City and the mayor of Belgrade, said no one called the municipal police, and in a report by the Citizens' Protectors, it is exactly the opposite, which is proven otherwise. I think it's very bad that the Home Office avoids responsibility in this way. I think it's more than a shame that the D.A.'s office has transferred responsibility to the police for six months, that the police transfer responsibility to the municipal police, that the municipal police are telling the truth, and that, for example, more and more the D.A.'s office is unable to take over from the police the investigative action and the procedure because it's an obvious obstruction by the police that I'm increasingly believing is obviously involved in this crime. Citizens are kidnapped, citizens are intimidated. If it is used and abused by police to clear up Arab investor Sava amphitheater so that he can build his shopping mall there and that someone's private property thus endangers, I don't think we're a society worthy of joining the EU tomorrow. I don't think we're the company that's on that road, so I think we're the company that got off that road and we're slowly slipping into the '90s. If this happens, if this goes unpunished, Serbia will never be able to speak or demand again or say that it aims to be an integral part of Western Europe. I think it is very important that it is very important that the committee determines the responsibility of top state officials. The Prime Minister himself argues that the top city government was involved in this. The city government says that Alexander Vucic didn't mean them, we have a report from the citizens' protectors, I don't understand why you're running away, if you have nothing to hide from the survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4234	I thank my colleague Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 20, abstention – one, did not vote 133 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4235	Thank you. We've been looking for the head of the parliamentary groups for the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. There's been an increase in domestic violence. Marko Djurisic is also one of the colleagues who supported this law, as he of course supported the formation of a survey board and many other laws that we have also passed by Mr Djurisic, but here we have opened one topic and I think it is very important that this law be found on the agenda. 33 women have been killed in the last year, in such a way that violent, or murderers, were previously recorded as domestic abusers. The police didn't take away their weapons, which, of course, they have under the law. They're like thugs coming back, going back to the family and killing their wife. In this way, many women and this sort of thing are looking for shelters in safe houses today. Six thousand applications for domestic violence exist, and there are only 700 and some convictions. I will remind you that this law was passed by Dragan Sutanovac and that for a year he spoke to all of you and that we were close to an agreement to find a common solution and to offer this law to be the law of all of us to save women from violence, to save someone's life. In May 2015, a domestic bully was registered by the police, but was not taken from him, and he returned and killed six members of his family. We want to take away the gun from the bullyes in the family, whether it's a rifle, whether it's a gun, it doesn't matter. They've been given permission under the law. We want them to be taken by the MUP, or the police, to take away their weapons and their right to carry weapons and to issue a gun license when they register as domestic abusers. That way we can save someone's life. That way we can save a woman. So 33 women have lost their lives in the last year just because we haven't passed this law. We don't think there's any policy here. We think, in particular, I am talking to the female part of Parliament, that it is very important that this law be on the agenda, that we discuss it and that we all bring it together, because I think it is very important that we save someone's life the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4236	I thank my colleague Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 24, abstention – one, did not vote – 127 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4237	The Government Act, I have prepared a series of proposed laws, but this one is my favorite, which stipulates that above the members and members of the 11th are changed and said- health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, and Article 11 says: “Before the government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide medical assurance of health skills for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies.” Of course, a member of the Government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the AP, etc., etc. You've had an opportunity to listen to the good proposals of my colleagues for good laws for an hour and it would be very nice for Parliament to start adopting good laws, not just what it has to be. I'm sorry the Deputy Prime Minister got in and out, and she didn't find time, will and tolerance to listen to good suggestions. Maybe something good would come to her as a suggestion to support one of these suggestions. What is the essence of this bill? To prevent people who have no health skills, whether it's a physiological health or a psychiatric aspect, from coming to the government. We have all witnessed in the last not only four years, but also a little longer, or much longer, that there have been examples that people, who are absolutely incapable of any work in the state authorities, have come to the position of being ministers, some and MPs, but in this bill I am only dealing with the Government. We have a lot of examples like that. One government in 2001 when its prime minister was Dr Zoran Djindjic conducted a medical examination of the candidates and the government, even at the time I led her, brought her a lot of good Serbia. I think it's an example of how a proposal like this checks the candidate's ability to bring good to both the state and the nation. This is not an insult to anyone from the current government, unless he feels that way, and this law would not only apply to the governments of Alexander Vukic, but would also apply to governments that will come very quickly behind him and who will start acting as normal governments in which normal people can be health professionals in state authorities, which is the job of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4238	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – one, did not vote – 132 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4239	Thank you very much. The first proposal for this Convention, i.e. the resolution, was in front of parliament before April 2015. So, on April 24, 2015, it was 100 years since the great genocide that was committed over the Armenians. The resolution says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia recognises and condemns the genocide of Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915. In 1922, he urged other countries and international organisations to contribute to the prevention of similar crimes in the future through his recognition and condemnation. There are no or hardly any people in Europe besides us Serbs or perhaps several others who have so many rights to be sensitive to the issue of crime, to the issue of genocide. We have every right because in our history there are a lot of examples where our people were the victim of genocide, sometimes very successful various conquerors, criminals, criminals, or whatever we might call it. There is no doubt about it, all Serbian citizens know it. It's something that can't be forgotten. But we need to show our awareness that we were not the only victims and that by admitting other people's victims we can just make our own little contribution or our own great contribution, however anyone looks, that the crimes of genocide are never forgotten, as the best prevention of anything like that never happening again. I hope it's the 21st century that will be relieved of both such goals and ideas and their realization, but who knows. In order not to happen in the future to anyone on the territory of Europe, on the territory of our entire planet, anything similar to what happened to the Armenians 101 years ago or what happened to Serbs for a very long time, and to some other nations in our environment, I think that this Parliament is authorized and has a responsibility to one such resolution, which was otherwise brought and confirmed in more than 30 countries of the world, I have read several times that there are countries on both sides, both east and west, that this applies to the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, etc. And that we belong in this good gathering of countries that care for mankind's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4240	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – nine, it did not vote – 141 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4241	The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on planning and regulation of space is contained in Article 97 point 12. The Constitution of Serbia. This bill was first before the MPs last called more than a year and a half ago, to this day there is no reaction to the then government or this government of continuity. I am again sorry that the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, has escaped and is not hearing, as this concerns her portfolio, and the reasons for passing such a law are very simple. We have chaos today, chaos in the area of housing, in the area of construction as such. Neither the Law of Law, nor the previous laws, nor the laws which define this area have imposed order. We can almost say that it's fortunate that, with a catastrophic government, we've received a severe recession, and then we don't have a big building, because if we did, it would be even more illegal than it is today. Of course, we cannot be so happy, of course, that Serbia's future is developing, which means building, but building in a way that is based on good regulations. The law is an improved version of the law that was passed in 2003, when a serious government dealt with Serbia. It was then that a criminal offence was introduced for those who started construction without all the previous documents necessary for this, including the last one, which is a permit for the beginning of the works, but, as you know very quickly, that is, at the beginning of the application of that law, the next Government was from the place of the most responsible minister to enforce the law in the personal interest of that minister, and then that law, of course, was never implemented in the way it should be. So today we have dozens, hundreds of thousands of illegal objects, not only of this government, of course, not a problem that is 20.30.50 years old, that this problem is so big that even under the Law on the Law of Law of Local Self-Government, they are absolutely unable to get into the process of their legal process at the end of November of this year. It's another process that needs to go its own way and be accelerated in the best possible way. So we don't have that happening again, so that once we put an end to this disease, which isn't just a matter of space, height, aesthetic objects, it's a question of the highest level of crime, which, of course, is always connected to the top of the government. To prevent that, I suggest you put this law in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4242	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4243	Thank you very much. The essence of the amendment of this Law is to introduce an institution of academic honesty, which should be an obstacle to mass, obviously in some favorite way of gaining knowledge, under quotes, which is a question of counterfeits at all levels, vertically, horizontally, at all levels, not only of the current but especially of all levels of the current government. In addition to the famous examples -- the president of the state, interior minister, mayor of Belgrade, head of the Kosovo Office, and I don't know what it is, there are hundreds of such examples, thousands, even at the level of secondary schools, let alone colleges. There's not a single forgeries for primary school, but the investigation is ongoing, so maybe we'll come up with that. Many who are, even some here, look like they didn't even get past elementary school without talking about some other education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4244	Explain your proposal to the law, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4245	I'm just talking to you? If it's just you, okay, I'll only talk to you. Therefore, the amendment is that point 1a is added in Article 4 after point 1a, which is – academic congratulation, and Article 2 says - that after Article 5, the name of the member and Article 5a, which reads – academic integrity is added. The definition that academic honesty is based on the independent production of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. This is not just a matter of moral responsibility, of pure cheek, which is a very, unfortunately cheap commodity lately. This is a matter of crime, because respect for other people's copyrights is not a question of good will for someone to respect it or not, it's a question of raising the level of those who earn, but it's a question and implementing the law. You can't take someone else's, it's called stealing. When you take it massively, it calls it organized crime, especially when the highest representatives of the current government are involved, which is already being talked about. In its opinion of the law, Serbian Prime Minister says that the law is not being adopted in principle and that the government is preparing to amend the law, says certain weaknesses in the system and individual solutions have been observed, and the need to introduce new issues in line with the demands of modern practice has arisen. Very interesting, but dysfunctional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4246	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 131 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4247	In the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, the "Official Messenger" from 2011 and 2014, Article 23 deletes Article 3 and allows commercial advertising of political parties, i.e. spending a few political entities, parties, on commercial advertising during election campaigns. My proposal is that tens of millions of euros that are then used for, I repeat, aesthetically unacceptable, not to use any other expression, videos that have absolutely nothing to do with reason or morality or aesthetics, so that this money can be used by prohibiting commercial advertising of participants in the election, to focus that money on the treatment of Serbian citizens, primarily children whose domestic medicine cannot help. According to the research carried out, the amount of money to be spent on these ads and the amount of money needed for healthy, normal treatment and children is primarily identical. That's why Serbia needs to make a historic shift forward, to stop throwing people's money, not money from political parties, but money from citizens of Serbia, money from taxpayers of Serbia, to a commercial where someone tells us they're going to solve a crime problem, but they can't say against whom, because if he says who he means, he can't be convicted tomorrow, and he can't be charged for wrong parking, let alone something else, from here to Kosmay. So let's not waste money on these ads, on photoshopped party leaders from billboards and some of these short forms of video content, but to use that money to treat children. Today, a country that is in Europe, in the 21st century and is called Serbia, organizes the treatment of children from severe SMS disease. That's the bottom. It is the most advanced bottom of this government and it can be removed in a very simple way and it would apply to all parties, not only to this government, not only to the elections that come to us in a month, two, three, six months, a year, but to all future ones. Such solutions exist in the legislation of the countries with the longest democratic tradition in Europe, from the UK, through France, Denmark, Norway, etc. I urge you to vote, throw money at stupid commercials, focus on treating children.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4248	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote, for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4249	Well, nice, this is a compliance with the previous bill. In fact, this area is defined in several laws, including the Law on the Selection of MPs. The proposal is to prevent commercial advertising of political parties and tossing money for something that is completely pointless, and to help treat children seriously, it is proposed that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs after article 49a, which reads: "It is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit voting lists for the transfer of political meetings, political messages and advertisements." That means, there are no paid terms of magnificent conventions from not knowing which halls and halls in this country, there is no room for paid terms where political officials and candidates in the elections will deceive citizens with their false promises, nor will there be room for classic advertising that we see before each election is held. Of course, it will not reduce the ability of Serbian citizens, voters to define themselves politically. They can get acquainted with political parties' programmes in a lot of ways, but let's keep it on electronic media, so that electronic media, media that have national coverage, regional or local, public service, all other televisions, to enable them in adequate time, means, both in terms of broadcasting and the length of these shows, the possibility that ignorant citizens, citizens who may have no idea what's going on from election to election, will be informed, even if they can't understand it because of language barriers or lack of intelligence or anything, to be informed of what political party is offering and that these terms, of course, are free, and that every television has so many opportunities to separate one part of its media space for the purpose of having no harm. We are witnessing that all televisions are doing business with losses that in various ways, and above all, by courtship towards the ruling furniture in various criminal ways they collect money to stay alive, for one reason only, to lie to the people, to be the loud stations of the government that absolutely at all levels is an example of the world champion in the lies that are being broadcast daily. Vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4250	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, for – 16, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 130 out of the 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the town known as Savala, 25 April 2016, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 6 June 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4251	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, today exactly six months since the end of the elections and the night in which the Serbian state has ceased to exist in one part of its territory. Six months of Serbian citizens and we here as representatives of a part of Serbia are asking a question - who is responsible? Unfortunately, we can't get a single concrete answer for six months. What we as the SDS NPS parliamentary group asked for on June 6th, 2016, is for a survey committee to be formed in the Serbian Assembly to try to answer some questions about the case. Of course, the answer so far has been negative and it might not have been so bad that we have the activity of the authorities in this matter, that we have information whether the prosecution has finally received some response from the police who, as far as we can read from the media, has four times referred the request for assistance and for the operation so that the investigation can be opened. Meanwhile, the topic was occupied by the public, it was often the subject of the prime minister, and then the Prime Minister who said that complete idiots were responsible, and later he linked it to the top of the city government. But to this day, we haven't received any name that's a complete idiot from the top of the city government who ordered that at night the boggers be destroyed by objects that organised the detention and deprivement of freedom and the confiscation of things from the citizens of Serbia and the application of the physical force, for which, by the definition of the state, only the state authorities can apply. This question is particularly worrying if we don't get an answer to it, then we don't have any guarantee that it won't happen again, that it won't happen to anyone else, on another part of the territory, on another occasion, obviously all because of the interest of whether any high-ranking state official or any private, business, domestic or foreign person associated with it. That is why we insist and will insist that we receive these answers through this initiative to set up a polling committee in the Serbian Parliament. Please determine the quorum before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4252	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm setting a ten-minute break. We continue work at 12:45 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I ask the MPs, to determine the quorum, to insert their electronic cards. We're moving on with our work. I am voting on the proposal of MP Mark Djurisic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - two, 129 of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4254	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, I hope that after this brief break I will have your full attention to several laws that I would like to propose, first of all, out of the desire to show that politics in Serbia can be guided in a different way, that there are different ideas for leadership, cultural, social, economic and any other policy, than what the Serbian Government is propagating, which unfortunately Serbian citizens have no place to hear. This place and this moment in our work, when we propose bill proposals, it seems to me to be the only place and time where, through some electronic media, Serbian citizens can hear that there are other policies in relation to what the Serbian government is proposing, which dominates electronic and all other media in Serbia. So it is our idea to amend the Law on Culture, which was adopted at the end of the mandate of the previous term, at the beginning of this year, in the work relating to giving national recognitions to the most responsible cultural workers. At the time, it was originally the idea of luck, the former Minister of Tasovac, that national recognitions in the area of culture would be completely abolished. It's just amazing to know the importance of culture for a nation. I have found numerous quotes from our cultural workers, about the importance of culture, about how without culture there is no survival of a nation, how people without culture have no future or what someone said, that there is nothing without culture. Our bill is of course to remain national recognitions for cultural workers, but not as the law has now defined, that only in exceptional cases these recognitions are granted, but that, as in sport, national recognitions are awarded one time, in a very high amount that has been increased in the last year, and national pensions for athletes, that such a rule applies in culture. In order to win the highest domestic and international awards in the field of culture, those winners, are allowed the right to a national pension. We believe that there is no future for the Republic of Serbia without worry about culture, so I call on you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4255	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Seven voted in favour, 141 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4256	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, this is a very important law, and it is not on the list of laws that this authority has changed over the past five years of its term of office. Unfortunately, the consequences of the country’s carelessness toward future generations take on the tragic situation. We keep repeating here in various discussions, on various topics, the issue of white plague and the fact that 30 to 40,000 were more dead every year than those born in the Republic of Serbia. A particularly difficult condition is a family with three and more children. We talked about it last week when it came out on the Day of Combating Poverty, when the data came out that Serbia, unfortunately, is at first at the risk of poverty. That percentage is 25.4%. In cases of families with three or more children, that number is over 35.8%. And with families with single parents or more dependent children, that percentage is 35.4%. We ask the question when will this topic finally come to the agenda? Minister Vulin is constantly announcing – in a few months, in a few months, changes and additions to this law. Here, we have made a proposal, a proposal that, first of all, will increase the number of users of the child's supplement. Today, the number of children receiving child's allowance is only 25%. The basic measure of helping families with children, in our opinion, must also strengthen the number of children who use the right to a child's supplement of the sea and can, as soon as possible, increase by 100% to ensure that every other child in Serbia achieves this right. Secondly, the children's supplement is not, unfortunately, what the prime minister said last week, four, five or eleven thousand, the child's supplement is 2,658 dinars and is absolutely insufficient and therefore so many families with children are threatened by poverty. This law introduces numerous reliefs and helps many endangered families, and I ask you to find time and understanding to put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4257	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, it did not vote 140, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda to the point: the bill on the draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4258	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, here today, in this part of the session when we set out the agenda and put the agenda on the agenda of the draft law under emergency procedure, we had the case that the ruling majority accepted that three points of the draft law were placed on the agenda which were proposed under the urgent procedure. This continues with the bad practice of the previous term when ultimately, when the line was drawn, the percentage of the laws that entered the assembly debate by emergency procedure was 54%. So more than half. In this way, the debate in parliament could not have been sufficiently quality. Citizens, professional associations, other associations, interested parties, from the area where laws were passed, were not familiar with what the Assembly was doing and that was bad. As a consequence, we had that some laws of three, four, five times in just two years came before the MPs and that mistakes were corrected that had not been observed when the laws had been adopted before, i.e. when application and deadlines were seen, most often the deadlines set in these drafts of the law, amendments and addition of the law were not realistic. That's still the case today. And today, the laws that we have on the agenda are rescheduling some deadlines that are prescribed when the laws were passed the previous time, or we have what we will have today, or when this session comes on the agenda – a billion-dollar debt for a loan agreed and agreed and a bill sent to the National Assembly by emergency procedure. We think it's bad and that practice has to stop. Our bill clearly defines how and under what conditions a law can be considered by an emergency procedure. The norms that now exist in the Constitution and the Serbian Rules of Procedure that allow it are not clear enough and are said only to give some justification. I invite you to read only these laws which are on the agenda today by emergency procedure and to see how much there is absolutely no reason to consider these laws by emergency procedure. This is a way to break with this practice, not only in this assembly, but in every future and I call on you, for the sake of introducing law in the state of Serbia, to accept and put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4259	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, 140 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4260	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, this law was first proposed to the Assembly by the SDS-NPS Group more than a year ago. The essence of this law, which is short, which is small, is that baby food is taxed not by the basic tax rate on added 20%, but by 10%. We wanted to show this way that the Republic of Serbia is taking care of families with small children and that it wants in this small, perhaps symbolic way, relative to the material savings it will bring to these families, to show that it cares about future generations of Serbia. Unfortunately, we did not get a positive answer, nor did your support that this amendment is on the agenda, although when we discussed the amendments to the VAT Act a year ago and proposed this solution through the amendment then, the Minister of the Republic of Serbia for Finance, Mr Vujovic, said that there was nothing personal against this measure, but that this measure would require further engagement and additional work of the tax administration, which, behold, would have to prescribe a list of what would be meant by baby food products, which would then be taxed at this lower rate. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, for the reason that we have announcements that the only measure currently in place to help families with children, which is the return of the collected VAT, which is carried out once a year with the delivery of extensive documentation that parents, not the state, will have to obtain, that the measure will be abolished and that the state, allegedly in some other way, will help families with small children. I'm not sure there are any solutions. We're proposing this. We can talk, and if you put this on the agenda to come up with a solution that baby food is taxed at a zero VAT rate, which is a solution that knows the laws in several European countries, states that care about our future and how many we will be and whether we will be there by the end of the 21st century at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4261	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, 139 out of 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4262	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, wandering about seeking a solution to the financing of the Public Media Service and how to hide that one of the government's many promises to the Prime Minister was not met, and this is a promise to cancel the subscription to the Public Media Service, we made at the very end of last year the changes and additions that entered again not the electricity tax, which existed until 2014, but a fee for the Public Media Service, which, behold, is being charged again, with the bill for the electricity delivered again. Since, of course, this change has been done by an emergency procedure, quickly, without serious debate, we have come to the conclusion that the proposed changes have not been left with the possibility of freeing the owners of electric numbers, which have electric numbers on garages, auxiliary facilities, or, as stated by counterpart Miletic, asking a parliamentary question last week, on empty houses, inherited from deceased parents, numerous families throughout Serbia. He rightly pointed out that citizens on a number of grounds, just because they owned more electric numbers, that more water was counted in their name, paid more than one and the same load. Our change is very simple and I call on all my colleagues to support us in this initiative, which is that payment can only be made on one number, where the one to whom it has been counted and lived. I think that this will solve a number of problems that may not even be so financially significant today, since this abolished, and the tax reintroduced, we have often heard that there are no more 500 than 150 dinars, as a facilitating circumstance. I will remind you that this amount of 150 dinars is foreseen only for 2016. So, in just over two months, over the course of this year, this tax will be able to rise again and I have no doubt that the Public Media Service Management Board, calling for a difficult material situation, will suggest that this tax is at a maximum of 500 dinars, which is the legal maximum and, in order that some citizens do not come into a situation that two, three, four times pay a tax and now in a serious financial amount, I urge you to vote for this change to find a fairer solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4263	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4264	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not going to explain the bill on this occasion. I am quite discouraged by the fact that I cannot get the attention and support of fellow Members of Parliament on very important issues, but I will continue to fight for the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly to come up with topics concerning the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to explain this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4265	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 149, of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, the abstentioned, voted 150, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 149, of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2016. Do you want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4266	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, although today, in order to put forward a proposal for the extension of the agenda, my colleague Balša Bozovic, in front of the DS parliamentary group, has already proposed a solution to the suspension of the law on temporary retirement, I will try to get your attention and support for this existential issue for more than 700,000 pensioners who two years ago, when this law was adopted, were found in an even more difficult material position, given that their pensions, earned by work in 40, 45 years of life, were unfair and, in our opinion, were illegally reduced by 10, 20 and more. I would remind you that, when the law was passed, the first proposal sent by the government of the Republic of Serbia was that the law was valid for three years, that it was valid until the end of 2017, and then the amendment of the ruling majority, which received the support of the Prime Minister and the entire government, was adopted, to delete that three-year term, because it would come early. That's what we're told. It shouldn't be three years, it won't take us three years to deal with the financial crisis and other reasons why the law was then introduced and passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it will be sooner. It's been two years and a year since we've heard that the state of public finances is great, that there's a surplus, that no one is better than us, we're asking for a law to be passed on to end the validity of this law and to correct this great injustice that was done two years ago. The government, to my surprise, has sent an opinion on the proposal for our law, and in this opinion it has been said and again that in order to take urgent measures to overcome the situation, the law provides for the long-term financial sustainability of the pension insurance system which, without taking the prescribed measures, would no longer be able to pay off the Constitution of guaranteed pensions. I can no longer understand from this sentence whether this is a temporary measure or a lasting measure, a long-term measure. That is why I call on you to pass a law on the termination of the Pension Reduction Act and to see how we can improve the life of pensioners and all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4267	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4268	Thank you, Your Honor. With this bill, we want to show that there is a different economic policy, that of course the state can save, but not by taking from pensioners, from employees in the state administration or from the users of social assistance, but that the state will primarily be responsible for leading public enterprises and not trying to hide the fact that it is so-called. The foreign expert management at Zelezara Smederevo made a 145m-euro debt in just a year's management, and that the pension reduction measure needed to bring a 170m-euro savings to the budget. So, out of 700,000 pensioners, something was taken to make bad business and the question was whether it was bad business or bad business in favour of someone else, not the Republic of Serbia, that was spent a year in "Smederevo Irons". The law was reached in agreement with the IMF at the end of the term of office last year with the idea of starting to apply from January 1st next year, and I call on you to correct things that are bad for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, employed in the public sector. First of all, the fact and what we pointed out when the law was passed that it was bad and that it couldn't solve problems is that this law did not fall under public enterprises. So, this law does not deal with salaries in public enterprises which are the biggest problem of Serbia's public finances and is constantly talking about how the debt of public enterprises is huge and that it is the biggest threat to the budget and public finances of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we can see that these public enterprises do not respect pay cut decisions, no decision to ban rewards and additional incomes, so 13 salaries are paid, according to some 50, 60 thousand dinar supplements. It's all numbers and amounts that public administration employees can only dream of, which employees in education, in health care, can only dream of. This law makes a number of bad solutions that reduce employees' rights in the public sector, which is unfortunately, according to this law, practically public administration. We feel that there is a need to make a lot of changes so that this law can be applied at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4269	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, it did not vote – 139 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, here, for the third time in a row I am proposing this law on amendments to the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture for a very simple reason. This is because for years we haven't used all those potentials we have in agricultural production and the state doesn't recognize agriculture as a resource and as a chance, but farmers are left alone to fight and cope with the big world market and global competition. So, I suggest that milk premiums be increased to at least 10 dinars, then premiums on plant production of at least 8,000 dinars and regressants of also a minimum of 8,000 dinars for fuel, fertilizer and seed. Today, when we face the situation that countries in the environment are helping and investing in agriculture, we are still absolutely autistic at all the demands of our farmers and that is something that needs to be changed. While in Slovenia, the Ministry of Agriculture, or their government, approves up to 45,000 euros for every beginner who wants to deal with agriculture, each year 250 new farmers have, no one thinks about it in Serbia. Even 18,000 euros will give that agricultural landownership that will not be professionally engaged in agriculture, but will be their production at the same time, and therefore it is no wonder that their efficiency is higher than three times compared to the efficiency in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. So they also warn data that Serbia has started importing even paprika and tomatoes. Last year, 14.4m euros is the amount of funds we spent on imports of tomatoes, and for only 3.6m we exported it. I'm telling you this because Serbia has no strategy to help agriculture and how to help our peasant strengthen it. We're not going to help farmers with customs or levies, we're not going to help them with their investments. Investments in the budget, and that is why I urge you to take advantage of that export potential of a billion euros that we have in agriculture. In this way, to help and hire farmers and to hire Serbia, not only to talk about agriculture when the time of election campaigns comes, and this third government of yours has done absolutely nothing in a row, but in the fifth year of office, for our farmers. In the end, as far as the funds are concerned, whether they're there or not, I'm sure there's only that you don't direct them the right way. In the end, take part of Beograd on Water, invest in agriculture, and I am sure you will have far greater results from the economy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4271	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: 15 voted in favour, 143 of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4272	I thank the chairman. For the third time, I propose this law which I am sure most MPs from the government have a positive opinion and would be very happy to support it, but that they do not have a warrant to support it or have not heard the bells that you activate when to vote and therefore are not supported by this law. But I'm going to suggest it one more time, maybe that practice will change. Therefore, it is the additions of the Law on Local Self-Government in the work concerning the editing and provision of student scholarships. In the current legislation cities and municipalities in Serbia do not have the right to scholarship students and students even though this is provided for in the Law on Student and Student Standard. So there is a cohesion in laws, and I think that we should correct this mistake, give opportunity and facilitate local self-government that they can finance and scholarship students and students, especially in order to bring labour market needs into line with the needs of the economy in places where students and students are scholarshipd. So, in a situation where we are facing an unremembered outflow of labour and young people from Serbia, 58,000 left Serbia last year alone, this trend continues and unfortunately is on the rise, in a situation where we have the most negative rate of natural age in Europe, 38,000 fewer children were born last year than people died, it is necessary to think about ways to help young people stay in their places, but also to help families decide to give birth to children. So I asked the question last time -- what about the civil code, which means that a certain part of the funds, as a stimulant, pays mothers who produce three or more children and these women are not unemployed, as Prime Minister Vukic called them, but they are very valuable and work perhaps the most important job of all of us doing something else in Serbia? There is no more important job than having children and new lives in Serbia, because we need to fight for it, so everything else should come later. So, I suggest that the responsibility of local self-government be defined, that it can scholarship students and students in accordance with its needs and thus help, primarily parents who have students and students, but stimulate and motivate students themselves to return to their places of employment and continue to build their careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4273	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, voted 17, did not vote 142 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4274	Thank you. The bill concerns two amendments, i.e. the introduction of two new members concerning certain tax reliefs to those taxpayers who employ new workers in the current year and I therefore propose the introduction of a new member of 44a. and new Article 44b. in the law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. The idea of the bill is to support our businesses, to support our small and medium-sized enterprises, and ultimately, the Government of the Republic of Serbia swears to small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises. Strategies are being adopted, but all of this ends up being a dead letter on paper. We have a situation today that we have fewer employees in small and medium-sized enterprises than we had in 2002, and this should be a kind of alarm in which this country sees the economic development and recovery of Serbia. Instead of helping old investors from a half-empty budget with a few tens of thousands of euros per employee, we could help our small entrepreneurs and our businessmen to start and develop their business activities, thus returning their funds to the budget. Currently, about 300,000 small and medium-sized enterprises are operating in the Republic of Serbia, but they are participating, with only 30 per cent in creating the gross social product of the Republic of Serbia, which is more than half the situation in developed European countries. And what I have to say is, it's not because our businessmen, or entrepreneurs, have no entrepreneurial spirit, have no ideas, wait for the help of the state or for the unemployed, as we very often hear the prime minister calling them, but because they lack a good system with normal business conditions, as they exist in other developed countries so that they can perform their work uninterruptedly and create for themselves and for this country. So there are systemic problems, and these systemic problems lead to more companies being shut down annually, small ones than new ones are opening up. So we suggest that all those businessmen who employ new workers in their small and medium-sized enterprises, in the course of the year, be freed to reduce their tax base for the amount of earnings paid for new employees. And on the other hand, for all newly established persons, for all legal entities established, in underdeveloped municipalities, to virtually release income tax payments in the current year, in order to stimulate the opening of new firms in the underdeveloped economic environments of the Republic of Serbia. I think small and medium-sized enterprises should be the backbone of Serbia's economic development and I urge you and I urge you to put this bill on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4275	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, 145 of the 159 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4276	Thank you. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government refers to regulating how local communities function as the lowest organisational forms of government in the Republic of Serbia. In the existing legislation, there is firstly no obligation to form local communities in urban areas, but this applies only to rural environments and the bill of law is that in the areas of cities there must be a local community in which citizens will be able to exercise their rights. On the other hand, the law also refers to defining clearly and precisely how local communities will be financed. At the moment, they are fully devised if they are one of the additional forms of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. If we want to go down to the lowest level to every citizen, to every man, to the environment in which 100 or more citizens live, we need to ensure fiscal decentralisation and create conditions for these local communities to gain importance and weight. I propose, in this law, that part of the property tax established on the territory of a local self-government unit, and for a certain local community, that part of those funds or 80% of these funds be transferred directly to local communities to determine what their priorities are and what they should do. This makes it impossible for anyone who manages local self-government at some point to be able, by their own personal beliefs or intentions or by any other political motives, to direct funds to other similar or inadequate local communities, because all citizens must be the same and have absolutely the same treatment. It is therefore necessary to regulate the way in which local communities are managed, i.e. the financing of local communities. That way, with this greater independence, they gain greater importance. We'll have a situation that then in the local community elections, people who really want to do something in their place, whether they live in urban territory or rural territory, and today no one wants to take this job seriously for reasons that there is no orderly way to function. Please accept this proposal in accordance with the bill, to put it on the agenda. It is something that is the interest of all of us today living in the Republic of Serbia and I believe that this way we will primarily help RS citizens who will be able to exercise their rights at the lowest level of government in Serbia, in local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4277	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21 MPs, 140 of the 161 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Constantinovic under Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly 16. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4278	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again propose to amend the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament. The citizens of Serbia are aware that we do not have a good Law on the selection of MPs, that according to this law we have such a result that no MPs who are representatives of all municipalities do not come from all municipalities across Serbia are sitting in this room. Serbian citizens don't know who their MP is. Citizens don't know who to hold responsible for implementing politics in this country. So, Serbia as one electoral unit is the worst possible electoral system that exists today in the world. To make this right, we need to make a consensus of all political parties over the new electoral system. I ask you to discuss this before the time comes for new parliamentary elections. I have now proposed this law and the SDS parliamentary group proposes to change everything that we have all combined found wrong in this law, and we have witnessed this in the previous parliamentary elections. We all saw through television, in a direct transmission that there was electoral theft, that the election results were compromised, that the system had functioned illegally and that the election results were not legitimate. Why doesn't the SNS want to change in the law what can change very easily and come to me next time in line with the will of the citizens? Does that mean you're taking us six months before the election into a new election robbery? Will the presidential elections again be the fruit of electoral theft and result – the fruit of electoral theft? Anyone who does not want the election results to be determined on the basis of the polling stations minutes, he wants to manipulate the results of the elections in the RIK. You have the opportunity and a very clear and simple proposal that election results can only be determined on the basis of records from polling stations, not all of us to be witnesses again that there are sacks opening in the RIK cameras and some of the polling stations counting, and not to be counted, depending on the will of the majority in RIK, and most of them have the current ruling majority. Please put this proposal on the agenda, talk about it and change what is wrong with the electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4279	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 140 of the 162 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Constantinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4280	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I think we are sitting in this assembly to make solutions benefiting Serbian citizens. Please, I don't know by which way, that some of the 50 laws, and more than 50 laws have been proposed by the opposition, more than 20 laws have been proposed by the SDS parliamentary group, to put some of these laws on the agenda. The General Administrative Procedure Act aims to make more efficient and faster citizens come to the documents they need. Here we have proposed an amendment which aims to allow citizens to receive their documents as soon as possible. What does that mean? We are promoting the General Administrative Procedure Act in the sense that those deadlines which are not sufficiently precise are not sufficiently defined, such as – immediately or within the shortest time, we are going to bring the state authority down to a realistic extent, that within 24 hours, it must seek a particular document by electronic means from another authority, because it requires the law, that if the answer and the document to be provided by a state authority should be sent by mail, that it is sent within eight days, there is no reason to wait 15 days. You've all been able to get your IDs out. When you go out to get your ID card, it turns out it's faster for you to bring a copy of the birth certificate to the MUP yourself than to wait for the MUP to ask the competent parent service for a copy of the birth certificate. There's no reason to be like that. Therefore, within 24 hours, the MUP may request the document by electronic means and that document may be sent by the home service within 24 hours. So we want to improve and speed up the process, which is of interest to the citizens. You will agree that there is no difference between us and there is no difference between our political programmes when it comes to obtaining documents. Let the SNS say why it is against that document to remove the citizens quickly, rather than have to wait 15 days or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4281	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 141 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Constantinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4282	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs have already been told today that violence against women has been increased in Serbia, that there has been an increase in the number of domestic violence cases in Serbia. Every day or, let me say, every moment, we are shocked by some news of the rape of women in the Republic of Serbia. In 2013, Mary’s law was passed. That law is good, but not enough. We suggest amendments that will improve Mary's law. What the practice has shown is that Mary’s law is not in practice or is not applied in an adequate way. I really don't understand why you're preventing us from registering all rapists, whether those rapes are committed to women, to minors, or to persons who are distracted by development. What's that SNS against? Why is it bad for the police to keep records of rapists, to have that record on them, and when a case happens that we suspect, the police can react immediately? We suggest not to run the Department of Bureau Sanctions, because it doesn't lead in a good way, but to the police. We suggest that everyone be recorded. Otherwise, police keep different types of records when it comes to offenders, or perpetrators of criminal acts. If we were to enter this record and if it were to be comprehensive, we might be able to detect those persons who are considered returnees in the pursuit of these crimes much easier. As far as you've seen cases of someone committing a crime of that kind, after they've been punished, they've been released and then re-produced. I ask you to be responsible for this work that you are all doing here, which is the work of the MP in the National Assembly. These laws are aimed at the benefit of Serbian citizens, not political bickering between different political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4283	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Constantinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4284	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SDS parliamentary group proposes to introduce integrity plans for political parties, because it is important to fight corruption in a proper and systematic manner, because it is important to act against corruption. I think if we did the survey, and there are such polls, the citizens think political parties are the most corrupt in this society. We sitting here are looking for state authorities to introduce integrity plans, and you don't want political parties to introduce integrity plans. Why does it not answer the SNS to introduce integrity plans into political parties, to precisely indicate what the points of corruption are in one political party and how to remove the possibility of corruption from the political party? Most of you sitting in this room spent years in political parties and formed their views in these political parties. Well, I guess it's important that politicians who then take up various state functions are formed in a way that takes care of both ethics and morality, and that they be instilled in education that they should not be corrupt and subject to corruption. I ask you to act really systematically against corruption, not to have every day on television some false indictments and false investigations that never ultimately lead to criminal convictions against these alleged perpetrators. We had a cutter one, a cutter two, no one was charged, let alone convicted. So it's a false fight against corruption. Come on, let's start from ourselves and from the political parties where we all sit and create a mechanism that will help us fight corruption. Please put this on the agenda and we'll discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4285	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 141 MPs from the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4286	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not had more than three laws in this assembly since March of last year. Why doesn't the government of the Republic of Serbia propose anything for seven months? If you have nothing to suggest and if you think everything in this country is right and arranged, that's why you don't propose laws. Then why are you against discussing the laws proposed by the opposition? More than 50 laws you've heard and heard the reasons for reviewing these laws and you don't want to discuss anything. We discussed two members last week before last week about two members, and today the law enters into the emergency procedure, I guess we'd have something to do this week or we wouldn't have done anything in October, like we didn't do anything in September or before August of the month. I have proposed amendments to the property tax law, 300% of the property tax has been raised since 2013. Citizens can't pay for that. At the same time that 300% of the property tax was raised, electricity was increased, excised, salaries were cut for public sector employees, pensions were reduced, citizens could not pay the tax. Don't think they can sell their apartments and houses to move somewhere cheaper and where the tax is lower, because they can't. I can't because there's no one to buy their apartments and houses. Don't change the demographic structure in Serbia and Belgrade by raising someone 300% of the tax for two or three years, the tax has to be predictable. It can be up to 7% a year to increase so people can plan. By this law, I propose that no tax be paid up to 25 square meters per member of the family household. The constitutional right is that you can live in your apartment, it's not a luxury when a four-member family lives in a 70-square apartment and doesn't have to pay taxes. Someone who lives in a lot more squares, someone who lives alone in 100 squares, I agree that he should pay the property tax, he should pay the second apartment and the third apartment, but let's agree on up to 25 squares of property tax is not paid. You have more generations to live together, so it's not a luxury that both grandparents and grandparents and moms and dads and kids all in a three-bedroom apartment in a building in New Belgrade, these people are supposed to pay taxes and up to 100,000 dinars a year. Where are they gonna pay for that? Let's do something for the citizens all together. Why is SNS stopping it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4287	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 16, against – no one with abstention – voted 142 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4288	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Police Act is contained in the provision of Article 94(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary in view of the situation in which the MUP is located. The situation is such that the members of the MUP have been double cut by SNS's decision in the last two years, and then the SNS has also honored them by reducing the diaries to only 150 dinars. Those who risk their lives ensure the safety of our country and all of us work for a 150 dinar daily. For that diary, they can buy a muffin, empty and a glass of yogurt. Two key points of change are the addition of the Police Act. The first is that the provision of Article 172, point 2, destroys the presupervision of innocence and we propose to delete that member. It is not a practice in European, developed, modern countries to file criminal charges against police officers. The criminal charges can be filed unfounded by anyone and automatically by that member of the police to be away from work until the proceedings are completed. Unfortunately, we know how up-to-date our courts are. Unfortunately, we know how long court proceedings take, and this reveals abuse by the ministry's own members and simply some members who are intruding in some cases, such as the Savamala case, can, by one criminal complaint, be away from work. The second provision is that there simply must be compatibility between the need to employ the MUP and those students who enter the Police Academy. Today we have practice that students who are professional, educational, staff, in which the state invested their finances, do not have safe employment when they graduate from the Police Academy. This practice must change, first of all, which is a very specific profession, and then these people who do not have guaranteed work in the bodies of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, end up with a tycoon or do not give God in the service of a criminal like we had a case a few weeks ago. We are proposing and hoping that this law will come into force, given that police must reform into one generally accepted, in one European way, and not according to this system, say where SNS personnel are employed, and young women and young women who finish the Police Academy have no guaranteed job. Just one fact that since 2015, more than 30 members of the MUP have committed suicide because of the difficult material conditions in which they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4289	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The 21st Messenger voted against—no one, the abstentioned, had ever voted 138 of the people's messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradović, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint, principled, uniform search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters submitted by the Government on 13 October 2016; the proposal for a law on the approval of an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which was submitted by the Government on 13 September 2016. A joint, uniform, examination of the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for budgetary support, which was submitted by the Government on 13 October 2016; Proposal for a law confirming the framework agreement on the loan of LD 1830 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016; Proposal for a law confirming the financial agreement on the loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016 and a proposal for a framework agreement on the loan of LD 1768 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which submitteded on 29 September 2016. A unique search into the proposal for a law on the approval of a Western Balkan Fund agreement with the Western Balkan Fund statute, which was submitted by the government on 13 October 2016. Commonly unique on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016; the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016. A joint, unified search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia on 11 October 2016; the proposal for a decision to amend members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the parliamentary group LSV - the Green Party, 11 October 2016; the proposal for a decision to amend the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the parliamentary group of the DBJ, 11 October 2016. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4290	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, counting, of course, on the need to have the understanding of uniting certain points of the agenda into a common, principled single search when they are really dealing with similar topics, which is, in addition, foreseen by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I do not think that in this case there simply was any basis to be an extremely important topic, which is the Law on Confirming an Agreement establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans, which has serious geopolitical repercussions in the context of other topics concerning the areas of international lending and completely other topics. I believe that this topic of one and how important the government's proposed fund should be a practical, special item of the agenda and that we have a completely separate special time for discussion. Simply, if it is drowned in six other topics concerning various international loans, no parliamentary group will have enough time to explain its position on this extremely important issue. I mean, of course, both the parliamentary groups of authorities and the opposition's parliamentary groups, regardless of who thinks about forming a fund for the Western Balkans, it is time for his opinion to be heard. So I ask you and I urge you to pay attention that this point is in no way logical to be in the context of a joint single search with five other points concerning different contracts, agreements and, let me say, loans, which are completely different types of topics. It could even be said that all of these points of the agenda should have been special points of the agenda and that they should not have been combined in this way, but here we wanted to at least appeal to you, to adopt this proposal to make this extremely important point, which is also important for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia, and for the further geostrategic plans of the Serbian state separate and be special, in order to allow time to talk on the subject. I hope that the ruling majority will have an understanding of this proposal, because I think simply the Serbian Parliament deserves enough time to discuss such an important topic. If you are so confident that the establishment of a Western Balkan fund is the right thing for Serbia and you will have more time to explain and convince us of our opposition MPs and the public, which is why it is important to form a Western Balkan fund based in Tirana, etc. I think that all of us from the opposition that we strongly oppose, and we from the Dvora, are certainly strongly opposed to it, we also get time to explain to you and the general public, which is why such a law on the confirmation of a fund-building agreement for the Western Balkans should be rejected. Therefore, once again, I ask you to consider this proposal for a different agenda schedule than that proposed by the ruling majority MPs. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4291	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, 144 of the 162 MPs present did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted by the National Assembly. The People's MP Mr. Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint, principled, uniform search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, which was submitted by the Government on 13 October 2016; a proposal for a law on the approval of an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which was submitted by the Government on 30 September 2016. A joint, uniform, examination of the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for budgetary support, which was submitted by the Government on 13 October 2016; a proposal for a law confirming the framework agreement on the loan of LD 1830 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016; a proposal for a law confirming the financial agreement on the loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016; a proposal for a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016 and a proposal for a framework agreement on the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which was established by the Government on the 21 September 2016 on the 21st of the 21st. Commonly unique on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016; the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, which was submitted by the Government on 4 October 2016. A joint, unified search on the proposal for a decision amending the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group on 11 October 2016; a proposal for a decision to amend members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the MP group LSV - Green Party, 11 October 2016; a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DBJ parliamentary group on 11 October 2016. Does the MP, Mr Igor Becic, want a word? (No) (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (The MPs of the DJB group receive a vote: Rules of Procedure. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v - three, 27 of the 162 MPs present did not vote. (The MPs of the DJB group receive a vote: Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's MPs not to receive it. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and proposals for bringing the debate together under Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. (Branka Stamenković, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I beg your pardon. (Branka Stamenković, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: 29 of the 163 MPs did not vote for – 132 against – two. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 as a whole. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4292	Thank you, Chairman. A few of my colleagues and I, at the same time, were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you further violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103, because you did not give us the right to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What I wanted to talk to you about was a violation of Rule 92 and your inaction by this member of the Rules of Procedure. I will read - if the proposals set out in Rule 2 of this Article, and these are proposals for putting the agendas and unifying the debates, are not submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will not consider them, nor shall they be made known. This member of the Rules of Procedure gives you the right and the obligation to take care of what suggestions you make before the MPs for the plea. The proposal by fellow Members of Bečić to have a joint search as proposed by him does not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 157(2) which states that a debate on draft laws can only be brought together if these laws are interlinked, i.e. solutions to them are interlinked or conditioned. Mr. Becic suggested that we bring together the debate on five laws on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement, as well as the Agreement establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans, which is contrary to this Rules of Procedure, and you had to remove this proposal from the declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4293	Mr Đurisic, Article 92(6), says - if the proposals set out in Article 2 of this Article are not submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, the procedure for the submission of acts, the motion for a merger of proceedings, is done in the opposite of the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and not contrary to the discretionary law of the National Assembly, will decide how, when and what to bring together in its debate. And you know it very well. And I cannot break the Rules of Procedure because I have tabled a proposal from one of the MPs, from whatever group he was from, to vote for his proposal to be declared by the National Assembly. At the very least, it is the National Assembly that brought this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. She's the only one who has the right to give authentic interpretations. Well, if you think that I have violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Marko Djurisic, of course. ) It will come out. Next, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4294	Thank you. Article 157, paragraph 2, which says - The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or interlinked. I'd like you to explain to me how they were conditioned together and what is the connection between the Port and Navigation Act and the Air Traffic Act with the Republic of Korea? To explain how mutually conditioned and linked loan laws, for the Republic of Serbia's budget, for the Kragujevac prison, for the construction of apartments for those who lost apartments in the King's earthquake, for support for the reform of the state administration and for the law establishing the regional fund, whose headquarters should be in Tirana? So, this proposal should not have been presented or voted on, because the ruling majority could have thought of declaring the day by night and night for the day, and the assembly was not the power to decide. He makes it clear to you what the congregation can decide. This kind of thing just can't be decided. You violated, as counterpart Djurisic said, and Article 103 of attitude 1 because you allowed to vote on this before the breach of the Rules of Procedure was processed. And you have injured the Rules of Procedure in the very fact that you have put this motion against Article 157(2) to the vote. Breaking the law and the Rules of Procedure sends a terriblely bad message to the citizens that someone can break the laws. This also violates constitutional order and legality and in general the rule of law. Please reconsider this and withdraw this illegal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4295	Mr. Radulovic, the same thing I said to my colleague Đurisic, goes for you. I don't need to, I hope, repeat. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Should. I made myself perfectly clear. I won't tell you again. If you want to go back to first grade, you go, but the National Assembly decides what it will do and what kind of debates it will bring together. If you're going to tell me that I'm in violation of the Constitution because I'm not preventing the MPs who bear the sovereignty of citizens from pleading, you are in great error, Mr. Radulovic. Seeing as you're trying to keep Parliament from making a circus... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Now wait, there are other colleagues who have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me if you want this original violation of the Rules of Procedure to be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Of course. All right. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4296	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I appeal to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the reason that I think we've acted as an opposition, I'm talking about the Devere MP group, in an extremely correct way. Although I have argued that there was no reason for other points of the agenda to be combined in the way you suggested it, we are only one small correction to exclude one single point from a joint search and put into a special point looking through our proposal for a different agenda, so very correct, and it is not respected on your part. When you say, Mr. Arsic, that the National Assembly of course has the sovereignty to decide what it wants, you have to be a bit precise -- the ruling majority in the National Assembly. So we haven't decided what's just been decided. It's not a dispute, you have that right, there's a ruling majority. You just figure it out – the ruling majority has decided that and the ruling majority has the right to decide that too. That's why I'm calling for article 97. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, which says - the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, before the opening of the search, shall have the right to propose a longer search period for the parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1, the National Assembly shall, of course, continue to decide on the proposal. I would then like all the first three points of the agenda, and in particular the 2nd item of the agenda, which I have pointed out is that it is connected in one way that is absolutely inappropriate, it gets the possibility of extended search time and I ask you to make a statement about it and that, even so, even if we are correcting this which is really contrary to the Rules of Procedure and a little tense on the part of the ruling majority. The ruling majority has the opportunity to adopt whatever they want. The only question is whether or not it's the Rules of Procedure, and how correct it is to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4297	Mr. Obradich, I couldn't even break Article 97. It's the rules of procedure because I haven't even opened the debate yet. That part comes when a debate is opened on the principle of the bill itself. The fact that you claim whether or not the ruling majority voted in favour of a proposal, when the MPs declared themselves to supplement the agenda for proposals for decisions on working bodies, I did not notice that some ruling majority voted, but all MPs and all MPs participated in the work of the National Assembly. Do most have to exist or do you want a single-party system like it was 30 years ago? I don't, anyway. The word is made by MP Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. I ask you, Mr. Arsic, don't let Sasha Radulovic, the famous criminal who ruined the Serbian economy, ruin the dignity of the National Assembly, because what he does from session to session is nothing more than a continuation of the destruction of the reputation of the National Assembly. - It's a hell of a lot of applause. ) As you can see, Mr. Arsic, they are in poor shape, unable to applaud even 20 seconds. (Saša Radulović, from town: Shame on you! ) Here, you hear what Mr. Sasa Radulovic is saying. He throws insults. It is his struggle for Serbia's prosperity. It is his fight for European and democratic Serbia. So, insult, insult, and slander. As far as I'm concerned, I'm hoping you won't be counting on me to applaud this criminal group of MPs at the time for discussion after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I want...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4299	You've got another minute and a half, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4300	... to remind Mr Mark Đurisic, who, from session to session, gave us a lesson on what we should and should not bring together in the debate, that he, Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party, while in power from 2009 to 2011, joined 22 points, 50 points, 64 points, 5 May 2010, 94 agenda points, 18 October 2011 40 points of the agenda, 29 February 2011 28 points of the agenda, etc. They had a total of 18 sessions with 20 and more agenda points and now Marko Djurisic has found himself teaching us whether we can or can't connect to the debate. Just one more thing, Mr. Arsic, explain to Mr. Bosko Obradovic that there is no ruling majority and ruling minority. There's a majority and there's a minority. Bosko Obradovic's wish to be a ruling minority and that he, with five or six MPs, determines what will be done in the National Assembly, it simply cannot, can't, can't by the Rules of Procedure, can't by basic democratic principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4301	Each parliamentary group has the right to have its own political struggle, and some in the absence of a political programme, ideologies resort to such means, but there is nothing I can do about it. Now we have this, just so the MPs know. First, the injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic, Nemanja Sarovic, Marko Djurisic and Mr Ćirić, who has not yet asked for the word electronically. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm supposed to be getting two injuries from the Rules of Procedure, because as I pointed out to the first, a second happened, but I'm going to sabotage everything, as they usually say, into one. Art. 107, 108, 109. – offensive expressions, throw-offs, distractions, etc., pronunciation. The president of the National Assembly is taking care of the work at the National Assembly. Mr. Arsic, you dropped this session a little bit. This, to forgive my viewers, was just like the beast's sheep. So the behaviour of the MPs was out of control, but that's aside. By passing us their leader or their leader, and by the leader, the group knew each other, not that he was throwing people's MPs here, but he was cursing them. There are colleagues present here. Mr. Radulovic swore here. I don't think he's worth quoting, but there are colleagues who've heard that curse. So I'm not gonna fall for those branches and mention the curse he used. It's their right to tap, it's our right to make decisions. They dispute the right of the National Assembly and democracy is a way of making decisions. It's about to end with a voice count. Political truth is determined by the number of votes of members of the National Assembly and we are not to blame that in the same way Mr Radulovic was elected to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and when he was elected, he received this applause that he has now given us. (The National MP Nenad Konstantinovic casts. ) The Lord who casts himself, who offered to cross over to our side, has been prevented thanks to me. He certainly has a right to throw, but he can't interfere with that. I think, Mr. Chairman, it's either you seducing order or Mr. Rancic, who, by profession, is a neuropsychiatist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4303	As I said, in the absence of a political programme, he resorts to these excesses. If this continues, we'll have to resort to Article 109. Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4304	Mr. Arsic, I think that you, member of 109, should have already applied, and at the moment Mr. Martinovic called Mr. Radulovic a "known criminal" and when the whole group was called "the crime group". I don't mean anything good about this man or the politics of their MP group, but I don't think anyone in the National Assembly can talk about someone sitting in these benches and whom the people have chosen in such a way that they are “a known criminal. ” To me, Mr. Radulovic is best known for being Vučić's minister. So you answer the question – why did Alexander Vukic put known criminals in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Perhaps it would be good if you told Alexander Vukic who all criminals are known to you, so tell us in this current government who is all known criminals, and not to listen afterwards – well, you are a known criminal. You who are the government, you who are the regime, you who are almighty, who hold both judges and prosecutors, if a known criminal, arrest him, judge him according to the law, ask the National Assembly to take away his immunity. He doesn't even have to receive subpoenas, file charges, ask the National Assembly to abolish immunity if there are compelling reasons, then the representatives of the parliamentary group will vote for it. You, Mr. Arsic, were obliged to interrupt these speakers in accordance with Article 27, which establishes a commitment for you to stick to, even if this contrived Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. That he's nakaradan, in that I think we agree from the time you were a member of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4305	You're bringing the end of my colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4306	No, no, Mr. Arsic, well, Alexander Martinovic spoke for over four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4307	Yeah, and from that, the first two minutes he was distracted, and you were a witness. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4308	And they're distracting me, and they're getting me too, so you can't hear it. He's not distracted, he's applauded. It's part of the same political idea. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4309	But I understand, Mr. Sarovic, what you're trying to say... (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: treat everyone in the same way. Don't get into a situation where someone talks about you like that, because, as we heard, they thought in time that their power will last forever and that they are all-powerful and immeasurable, today you are often and worse than they are. I think you've gone a little too far with your colleague Sarovic. I would only about Article 109 because it is obvious that a group of MPs here want to stop, prevent, make it difficult for the National Assembly to work and pass laws, which is a legitimate political tool. In your statement, you said that Mr. Radulovic was Vučić's minister, he was never. Alexander Vukic never proposed him to be minister in the RS government. I am trying to maintain order at the National Assembly session and the application of Article 27, so I can tell you that if Mr Martinovic deserved a warning, he also deserved colleagues who disturbed him as he spoke. No one has received a warning, so I believe that no provision of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, Goran Ćirić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Is there a order? What does this look like? ) (Goran Đirić, from the post: You have violated the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you, Mr. Arsic, to bring this session into progress as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, because it is obvious that certain parliamentary groups do not want to work on the agenda. The SNS parliamentary group wants to work on the agenda, we want to move on to the debate and discuss proposals for legislation that are on the agenda. As for Sasa Radulovic, I am glad that after leaving the hall, he found his political lawyers to defend him, but for the public I want to say that Sasa Radulovic was never the Minister of Industry. He was Minister of Economy for the period, if I am not mistaken, from September to December 2013, when the Prime Minister was Ivica Dacic, of course, and I do not want to say that he was neither Dacic, nor Vucic's minister. He was a minister for three months. When people in the government realized what Sasa Radulovic was doing, Sasa Radulovic was shot down by the RS government because of the disastrous economic policy he led. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4311	Seeing that after nearly four and a half hours of continuous work, the work of the National Assembly begins to lose control, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 10-minute break until further session is established. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Veljko Kovacevic and Zoran Ilic, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Mirjan Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2) and Article 178(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? Yeah. ) The speech has the minister and vice-president of the government, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4313	The Honorable Chairman, dear MPs and MPs, there are two draft laws in front of you today. One is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports and another is the draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea. Before I start talking about both of these bill proposals, with the hope of course that we will have a good debate and that if there is a possibility of any constructive proposals that we will definitely include in these bill proposals, I want to inform you that in the past few years, so from the time of the previous government formed by Aleksandar Vukic and these new governments that we have formed, when we talk about the area of traffic we can freely say that every kind of traffic, therefore, from the water, road, air and rail traffic is indeed in one rise with the trend of increasing both passenger transport and the network itself. The transport policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia really results, and we can talk today about numbers, not just the number of miles of highways built, but we can also talk about the number of agreements we signed on air traffic or about what we did when we talk about water transport itself. Transport policy and even traffic policy are indeed a base of economic development of the country, and if we look at the previous period, over the past few years, the participation of general traffic and telecommunications in the social gross product has moved around 5.1%. Our goal is that in 2025, this participation must be 15%, 2030, 20% in the social gross product. We are also aware that everything done in transport policy, i.e. in transport, is directly reflected, not only on economic development, but on a balanced regional development, on the quality of living standards, or on the better life of citizens, and reflected on trade, is reflected in the increase of these so-called. the transit revenues Serbia can have and should have since Serbia's position is such that it allows it. What may be, I would say, the most important thing right now and not just this one, is that it increases the employment of our population. Serbia, therefore, has a great position. When we talk about every kind of transport, there are very important corridors going through Serbia, from Corridor 10, corridor to Montenegro, which we call Corridor 11, then Corridor 4, Corridor 7 which is very important, and that is the Rajna-Dunav waterway. They're corridors we want to make the most of. When I say we use it, it means we're an inevitable route from the east to the west, from the north to the south when we talk about transportation itself. Also, our goal is so-called. integrated, i.e. integrated type of traffic, which is that we have all kinds of traffic connected, and not only are we developing one kind of traffic or that we base ourselves on strategically developing only one kind of traffic. When we talk about, first of all, water transport, which is why we are here today in connection with this bill, I want to inform you that there are 1,600km of waterways through Serbia. It's the Danube River, the Sava, Tis and the Kanal Danube-Tisa-Dunav. In our strategy that has been processed, among other things, our action plan has clearly defined the goals we want to achieve. One of these goals is primarily to increase ship traffic. Currently, at least that's what they say, 8.3 million tonnes of waterways were transported in 2016. We expect it to be 9.6 million tonnes by the end of 2016. I particularly mention this information because in previous action plans of three or four years ago it was thought that 9.6 million tonnes would be transported by waterways only in 2020. We're in 2016 today, and we managed to get to that level. Then the next goal is to increase shipping revenues, then increase the number of landing ships, as well as, of course, increase exports and imports across our ports. Luke represented somehow, we'd say, along the waterways, the most important part of the shipping waterway, and it seems to us that in the previous period there wasn't enough investment and investment, but it wasn't enough when we were talking about the development of the ports themselves. I believe that the law that is in front of you, which we are going to talk about, can certainly help us to talk first of all about port action, about what the state wants to do when it comes to port, or port activity. The law in front of you needs to allow us to develop water transport much faster, to fight, that is, to be an instrument for us to reduce the gray economy that certainly exists in every kind of traffic, so unfortunately there is also water traffic. It will enable us to safely eliminate the monopoly we have when we talk about the technical maintenance of international flows, to ensure and create conditions that the private sector can also participate in technical maintenance. We don't do it by heart, we do it together, not together, but by the reputation of all those countries that have just managed to raise the port's activity as a activity of vital and strategic interest. It's both Germany and Austria and some other countries we can discuss. So, too, to be an instrument for us to be able to fight the gray economy, piracy, theft and all the illegal activities we face if we talk about water transport, we have come into a situation that through this law we can comply with another law that was passed in the previous period, and it's called the Private Security Act. The specific point to which we especially insist through this law is to create equal criteria and to regulate the operation of ports and equal criteria for all within the performance of port operations. What is particularly important when it comes to ports, ports, first of all, have the status of general good. Therefore, the port areas to be declared dependent on certain conditions that ports should meet, which are also infrastructure and land, are owned, therefore, by the public property of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very important and that this law was passed much, much earlier, then it wouldn't have happened if we had all sorts of privatisations of ports that didn't bring us what we actually need to bring, which is really someone's dealing with port operations and that we can talk today about huge quantities of goods that are being loaded or loaded through ports. Unfortunately, the situation was completely different. This law should enable us and enable us, if you adopt it, to establish a single order in what is called the performance of port operations. We will, of course, during today's day and when the amendment day is, we will discuss every part of this law. Please, anything you consider constructive, help if you have any suggestions for this law to be even better. As for the Air Traffic Act between the Republic of Serbia and Korea, I will only tell you that in the previous two years, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has signed more agreements than an air traffic agreement has been signed since 1990. So, out of the 90 air traffic agreements we have, 30 agreements have been signed over the past two and a half years. Air traffic results, at all times when we observe all kinds of traffic, we can freely say that air traffic is according to all European standards and that in some way air traffic is a member of the already European Union with all our institutions, from the Directorate of the “Nikola Tesla” Airport. Also, to inform you that we are expecting a five-million passenger this year, there were 2.2 million passengers at the "Nikola Tesla" airport three years ago. So thank you for listening and I expect the debate to be very constructive and, of course, all the questions you have regarding ports, port operations, maintenance of waterways, then air traffic and all the other types of traffic, here I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4314	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4315	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and respected representatives of the Ministry, unfortunately, we are starting a debate quite late and there is also fatigue present, but I hope that we will be able to assist in considering this law that is before us, which is in fact the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. This law is cited as an important reason why compliance with the provisions of the Private Security Act is cited as some key reason, then the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport and some other issues that have not been resolved and whose solution requires finding better legal solutions. In fact, it is the fact that this bill abolishes the competences of the existing Waterway Directorates to carry out certain technical maintenance operations of international and inter-state waterways, allegedly due to inefficient spending of funds for these purposes, and that these activities will be carried out by private-owned economic operators in the future. It is argued in the explanation that the funds used by the Directorate will be used to maintain the technical regularity of the vessel and to pay for the crew members to finance and carry out the work of technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways through public procurement procedures. To remind me, the Waterways Directorate is the authority of the administration in the works of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, responsible for maintaining and developing internal waterways in the Republic of Serbia, which are subject to international and interstate navigation regimes. These include the Danube, Sava and Tis rivers. It was founded in 1963, and it says on the site, saying – its employees work daily to establish safe conditions for internal navigation. Since the bill does not contain data after the operation of the Directorate in the previous period, I ask you to introduce us to the amount of funds that will be used to finance the implementation of technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways. Then, in the light of the bill's proposal, you failed to mention all the costs of reorganisation and rationalisation of operations of the Waterway Directorate in the coming period, and given the change in its competence, as well as the intended change in the purpose of the use of budgetary resources, i.e. funds used by the crew maintenance and salary Directorate, to be used for the financing of works. With that in mind, I'm asking you to give us that information, too, if you're able. Then, the bill does not contain the experience of other countries in the environment that have similar problems, and in order to assess the overallity of the changes you have proposed, can you present us with the experience of neighbouring EU member states, such as Hungary, Croatia or Romania, in accessing these issues. In response to the question of the cost of applying the law to citizens, businesses, the proponent of the Bill's proposal states that new solutions will cause additional costs for shipping companies and ports due to the obligation to hire entities licensed to carry out private security activities or to organise self-protective activities. In addition, it is said that most ports will have registered entities licensed to carry out private security activities, as well as that, in the period following the adoption of the Law proposal, an analysis will be carried out to date of measures taken, in order to possibly implement additional measures of physical protection in ports, such as security fences, cameras and the like. You failed to show and quantitatively express all the costs incurred by ports and shipping companies for the introduction of these new obligations, so I ask you to introduce us to the estimates of these costs. To remind me, there are 11 ports of international importance in Serbia's territory and I am interested in how many shipping companies this law will apply to. Eight Danube ports in Serbia are of international importance, most on the territory of Vojvodina. It's Apatino, Bogojevo, Baka Palanka, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Panchevo, Smederjevo and Prahovo. The largest ports on the Sava River are in Šapac and Sremska Mitrovica and the Tisa Luka River in Senta. All ports are privatized, except for Luke Novi Sad, who is in the privatisation process. Luka Novi Sad of all the ports in Serbia that exist today has dual significance – it has good development capacity, located at the intersection of Corridor 10 and Corridor 7. According to some data I managed to get to, in the summer of 2015 information appeared in the newspaper that Luka Novi Sad is the only profitable state-owned company in Novi Sad and that pays dividends of over six million dinars to the state as a majority owner. On 30 January 2016, the government concluded that the privatisation initiative and these only remaining unprivatised ports are being launched. The economy ministry was due to arrive by 30 March 2016 on the invitation to privatise Luke Novi Sad and then Minister of Business Mr Zeljko Sertic said at RTS that a strategic partner in Luci Novi Sad, as well as at other ports, could be an operator and could not be the owner of the country or infrastructure. I quote his statement at the time, which says: "It is defined by law and citizens can be calm. Whether and when we decide to agree with one of the potential interested companies, we will see it in some future period," said then Minister Sertic. However, Article 214 of this Law defines that the extremely infrastructure in ports, i.e. ports, may be owned by operators who have acquired this right in the privatisation process, i.e. property transformation, and that I am not now reading the other parts of this article. Otherwise, in the very call of the Ministry of Business, potential investors for the Port of Novi Sad are offered to propose themselves a privatisation model, i.e. whether they are for sale of capital, sale of assets, strategic partnership through recapitalisation or strategic partnership through the establishment of a new company. It is even allowed interested customers in the letter to indicate the indicative price of the investment programme, the business framework plan and the number of employees indefinitely. So, I'd like to know how far it's been, and I think that's what all the other citizens are interested in, as long as it comes with the privatisation of Luke Novi Sad? Meanwhile, the correspondence of small shareholders by Luke Novi Sad continues, and I have been asking questions about the fate of this port, on behalf of just a small shareholder. Namely, they are correspondence with the state, the state authorities, because the state owns 99.38% of the capital, you correct me if this information is incorrect, and minority owners are workers holding 0.62%. And these minority workers went to the Department of Commerce asking them to sign their actions without compensation to get into the process, but they got the answer that it wasn't legal. Then they came to the Prime Minister to help them, however, they didn't get an answer, so I guess that letter didn't even reach the prime minister. That letter was sent to me and asked me to make their application, literally tell Mr. Vukic, personally or through what reliable services say, I don't know exactly what it means, so he'd be familiar with the problem, because they say, otherwise it would be a tragedy for former and current workers of such a good company to remain deprived of their actions. And they're asking me to pass this application to our shareholders, or to the small shareholders of Luke Novi Sad, and I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Minister to transfer this application to the prime minister. The specificity of the port infrastructure is that the development of the port by definition must be planned for a longer period, it is known to all those involved and experts say that even more than 100 years is planned in advance, so there must always be a free area so-called. the development of territories around larger existing port infrastructures in which it could further develop. Coordination, remont, investment and planning of this development requires state-run management and rarely which port is fully privatised. Contracts with private undertakings or public-private partnerships are mostly applied only in one part of port activities such as loading and unloading and without the right of management over the port itself. In most countries, the US, Germany or France ports are in the hands of a state that makes infrastructure and then private capital comes and has its own assets within the port. The construction of infrastructure is extremely expensive, such as the construction of a 100m vertical key cost between two and threem euros. The officials say that this is one of the reasons for the poor use of river transport in Serbia, according to some data less than 5%. I will remind the minister that in February 2015, she said, as deputy prime minister and resolute minister, that 300m euros are necessary for the modernisation of Serbian ports, ports and fleets. Who's going to invest these funds? I also remind you that this assembly adopted the Sava Protocol in October 2015. Namely, the protocol on the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. In fact, Serbia has committed to building a fecal water dump from ships at two locations in Sapac and Sremska Mitrovica. When the debate on this document was held in the draft law on the confirmation of this Protocol, it was stated that its application would not require funds from the budget. Again, I ask - who will finance the construction of such objects within these designated ports? As far as the bill is concerned, it is prescribed that shipowners make their own emergency plans to assist victims and their families, including transport, accommodation and medical assistance to victims and their families in the event of inland water accidents. I believe that the above obligation is prescribed for the purpose of harmonising the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters with the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents. Who approves of these plans and will they be in line with the jobs now carried out by the Serbia MUP Emergency Sector? It seems to me that this provision of the law makes sense first of all in air traffic, and that it will not be used in this area and will in fact represent only an additional obligation to the shipowners that these plans must be made. Unlike many other laws that we have discussed and adopted here, where there is a obligation to set EU rules here, there is no such thing in this accompanying law document, no alignment with EU rules is called for. We are passing the law at our discretion, not complying with any EU regulation in this area, and just experience from the European countries and their large ports can help us not to make mistakes by putting everything into private hands. Finally, unfortunately, there was no public debate, but only the consultation was carried out, as it said in the accompanying document in the PKK on 7 September 2016, which lasted two and a half hours, which included representatives of shipping companies and groups for ports and ports within the PKK, which supported the solution given in the draft law that the Water Road Directorate practically shuts down. Were the representatives of the Directorate involved in these talks at all, were they present, were they consulted in view of their long-term experience, regardless of their intentions regarding the existence of the Directorate in the future? Where was the professional and interested public and did she participate in this debate? We have colleges and other institutions where we have water traffic experts? Who represented the interests of citizens, local self-government and ultimately employees in this area, bearing exactly the example of Luke Novi Sad and her employees? So it's no wonder these little shareholders of Luke Novi Now are sending desperate letters asking for someone to protect their minimum rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4316	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4317	Thank you. Dear MPs, a few clarifications, this law of course passed a public debate, and that was also discussed in the PKK with all the groups that supported the law, that's one thing. Second, of course you've talked to the Waterway Directorate as well. Far from confusing Serbia's citizens, the Waterways Directorate is not shutting down. The Waterway Directorate has long begun to do as you know and the river information system itself, which is also very important. On the other hand, the Waterway Directorate will continue to work on the area of design and surveillance, which is very important when we talk about technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways. Until now, the situation seemed different. So, the One House Directorate, the Waterway Directorate, was doing the design, doing the performance, and she was doing the surveillance. You'll admit that it's not quite normal to say, on the other hand, the Waterway Directorate didn't already have enough funding for a number of years to really be able to deal with technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways. This is one of the reasons why we have defined ourselves to abolish the monopoly and allow the private sector to deal with it, and that is precisely by the reputation of those countries that have been very developed. That's the system you have in Holland, Germany, Austria, I mean somewhere else in Belgium. So you'll admit that the Netherlands isn't exactly a country that doesn't have so much experience in water transport, they were kind of our rappers. The countries that have kept this system as it is with us, are, say, Romania, Bulgaria. We believe that this can still bring us better technical maintenance, and when we talk about the savings and the money the Waterway Directorate used, so if we adopt this law then we can say that around 250 000 euros will be spent less because it will go into some spent and some salaries. What will be dealt with further by the Directorate, I repeat once again, is the design, maintenance and is the supervision that will be carried out after the tenders, public calls where those who can conduct technical maintenance will be selected. So, the Waterways Directorate will then supervise plus the river information system it is already implementing in some part of it. Next, what I think is also important for everyone, and that's Luka Novi Sad. In general, in the previous period the ports privatised in various ways were obviously privatized in the largest part, in the largest number, not because of the port's activity, someone because they wanted to reach land or certain infrastructure, and above all to land. So, what we want to achieve and what we achieve, and just as the former Minister of Business Mr Sertic said, is that what is a public property, which is infrastructure and land, is a public property and cannot be owned by someone new, so who, through privatisation, will become, or perform, a port operator, or perform port activity. So, Luka Novi Sad, privatisation was announced, before that, October of this year, the Serbian government made a decision on the port area, so infrastructure and land that are now in public property. We are still waiting for various letters of intent and of course we will also inform the public of Serbia on the moment when the process itself comes to an end. What's the need, say, for Luke Novi Sad in the future is to invest in Port Novi Sad, at least 20 million euros, if we really want to take advantage of what you say the excellent position that the port has, and you must also admit that when someone shows a profit of just six million dinars in such a place, with such opportunities, it's very small. We want to help make this port work and make the port work and have a lot more work to do than it's ever been before. It's obvious that, or at least hopefully, by all estimates, we're going to succeed in this privatisation process. One part of the law you said about, assistance to victims, etc. in shipping, for that part there are precise European standards, namely the EU requirement that we have to comply with certain standards. So we did it in the best possible practice of all the countries involved. When we talk about the whole law, it is, of course, in line with EU standards. And all that is done in the Ministry of Transport, in the area of transport at all, we have not put any law before the MPs, in front of parliament, which is not in line with European standards. If I missed something by accident, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4318	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4319	Thank you. The Honorable Minister with Associates, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is today ahead of us two draft laws, and this, first of all, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ports of Internal Waters and, of course, the Second Law of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Air Traffic. Minister, I will immediately say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the aforementioned drafts of the law. My presentation at the very beginning will focus on the proposal for a law on inland ports and I must say, we will vote in favour of this bill, because it primarily allows water traffic to develop faster in the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, the fight against the grey economy. But here's what I'm going to do about this law. What does this bill essentially bring? Here, you've already talked a little bit about it, so first of all, the Waterway Directorate, is being abolished a kind of monopoly position to do certain jobs, technical maintenance on international and interstate waterways. So, the directorates are now the funds she received from the state budget, practically used to maintain the flora, then to pay crew members, as well as other jobs, and this law will use those financial resources for the jobs offered on the market under conditions, i.e. through public procurement. It is very important here to say that, in practice, the Republic of Serbia is fulfilling its international commitment, maintenance of waterways, so also to the aim of uninterrupted navigation. Also on the other hand, what else does that bring to the new law? A legal assumption is that in several port areas in Serbia, therefore, internal competition is created. So, some companies that have so far done business, I say, in accordance with the law that was until 2010, will be able to continue this activity uninterrupted by this law. On the other hand, the solution to this law will also affect certain companies that have, so far, been doing their work in a smooth manner by providing rental services, i.e. chartering yachts and recreational boats. They are not registered in any of the domestic registers of the vessel, but are registered abroad. On the other hand, I have to say the same thing here that when those boats were rented, they didn't use the crew. So, Minister, on the one hand, we have security at stake here if you rent such vessels without crew members, and on the other hand, we have to think about the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Such vessels did not pay taxes, and on the other hand, they did not pay contributions based on those people who were to carry out the work. I think this law clearly defines the conditions under which these companies can carry out the aforementioned work. But on this point, I would like to say another note that the request that vessels painted for entertainment or entertainment needs to wind up the flag of the state, know the legislation, we haven't heard that before, and countries like Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro. This isn't a lonely example. I would also like to point out that this law also increases the security of water traffic, and therefore, you said, it prevents the execution of certain crimes, so, theft, piracy, smuggling and the like. This will also affect the business of domestic shipping companies and ports that will be obliged to organise security protection, and this contracted engagement of licensed persons to carry out private security activities. Minister, we just heard there was no public debate. I think, although you were not obliged to do so, I must commend it, certainly, in the Chamber of Commerce, a consultation was carried out with, let me say, the shipbuilding group and the port and port group. What's important is I have to say it's good to hear the voice of the interested parties, because I think that's what we get, that the law gets weight, that we get better laws, and that's what we all get. At the very end, I want to say, about this law, that we will definitely support this legal solution in the voting day. I would now move on to the second draft law, namely the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea. It should be said that practically this agreement amends the 1990 Agreement, when it was signed or when it came into force in 1991 and allows airlines to improve commercial co-operation and expand their network of routes of code-sher arrangements. What is the practical meaning of this agreement? We'll be able to use direct lines to say, two or three times a week, we have a direct line between Belgrade and the capital of South Korea. For passengers, this means better connections and a greater choice of air traffic between the two countries. It should also be noted that the distance between Seoul and Belgrade is about 8,300km. So far, such a journey took about 20 hours. With this direct line that time travel will be reduced to 11 or 12 hours or so. You just said, and here I am to confirm, Serbia has these airmen, that's what it says about the government's work, of course, with 87 countries. On the other hand, there are 67 destinations from Belgrade Airport, if I'm not mistaken, and our airline is going from Belgrade to 40 destinations, which is really the information for every praise. On the other hand, there's something else I want to tell you. When we talk about agreements, I am sure that each agreement signed in one area provides a wide range of opportunities to sign agreements in other areas, for the benefit of Serbian citizens. I say it here primarily because South Korea is one of the most important countries, with a strong economy, on the Asian continent. It has a strong industry with highly educated personnel, with the most significant companies such as "Kie", "Hundai", "Samsung", "LG" and what is important, business co-operation i.e. The trade between Serbia and Koira from year to year is a constant rise. When I say that, I have data from last year that the trade between Serbia and South Korea is somewhere below 190 million dollars. This basically means that some $73m came from Korea to Serbia, we import the most cars and monitors, and from Serbia to South Korea, $115m, and it is the food industry. I'm saying there's really room for further cooperation here in other areas. Also, the value of investments by Korean companies operating today in Serbia has reached about $13m in value. That's all relevant data. Minister, I'm from Kragujevac, so I can confirm that. Near Kragujevac is Rač Kragujevačka and there is a successful factory "Jura". They are not only in Kragujevac, they are also in Nis, Leskovac, and it is not the only factory that operates in Serbia. Our goal is to have a lot more factories. Finally, the JS parliamentary group will support both the bill and the Air Traffic Act between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4320	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4321	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I would first of all like to welcome the arrival of Minister Mihajlovic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased that she has set aside her valuable time from a presidential campaign that has been in place for a long time and that she is here with us today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Chairman, what is this? What have I done now? It's no good when you thank the minister for coming, not even when you're criticizing the minister. Chairman, I don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4322	It's a good thing you felt the need to thank the minister, but please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4323	I understand that the ruling majority cannot stand the presence of the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but you gentlemen must get used to it. You're not used to it, but you'll get used to it in time, it's going slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4324	There's no reason for you to speak to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4325	So, I'd like to welcome the arrival of the minister who escaped last time to appear when her resolute theme of late Ljig-Preljina highway was on the agenda, just to be clear, but this time she didn't avoid showing up, and it's commendable. We here want to point out some of the controversial things that exist in this topic, because, in principle, the Devere parliamentary group thinks that not every privatisation and any abolition of state monopoly is a good thing. So that's the key topic that we've been arguing about with all the neoliberals since October 5, 2000 to this day. So the key idea of neoliberalism is that the state should not interfere with its business, that the state should be eliminated from all market, business and I don't know what other activities, that the market is actually a god, that the market is the best regulator of economic activity and that the countries should be as little in the economy and as little in the market as possible. It's a key mantra of neoliberalism that has ruined this country. Since 5 October 2000 until today, we have had such ideas, and a similar idea is found in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, practically to question the functioning of this country, we have abolished all customs duties on imports of foreign goods, we have privatised a number of state-owned enterprises, in every other way we favoured foreign capital, foreign investors, foreign businesses and killed the competition of domestic businessmen and even domestic companies. The state simply gave up its monopolies in many areas, thus allowing various types of abuse of state, economic and natural resources, therefore, of the country's strategic wealth. These days, it's usually culminating in this brilliant idea of selling medicinal spas, which is just a subject that's pointless. There's one such attempt here, so-called. demonopolization of the Waterway Directorate in Serbia. So it's a classic explanation, the state doesn't know it's doing its job, the State Waterway Directorate has no idea he's doing his job, it's going to be a much better private. No one asks the question – sorry that this Waterway Directorate is not doing its job, who was the director there, who was there for years in power and decades ago, who disabled this company to do its job? That is what the famous argument which is about – Telekom has poor management, so Telekom needs to be privatised, and no one asks the question – why do we not repair the management of Telekom, so that it remains ours, so that all the money may remain ours? That's pretty much the logic here in the Waterways Directorate. The management of the Waterway Directorate is not good, it did not do its job well, and that is why it is well said here in Article 2 of the Law – the possibility is that individual jobs from the Department of Waterways should be left to private companies on the market, and reportedly in order to reduce the costs and to perform these jobs more effectively. I ask you, Madam Minister, why isn't the Waterway Directorate able to cut costs and do these jobs more effectively? Have you agreed to give him these jobs with any privates? Is that the point of this story? To set up tenders for his party comrades? It never happens in Serbia, does it? Has Chume ever paved the roads, and now perhaps your friend Zvonko Veseinovic is paved? And that's the whole difference between DS and SNS, whether it's asphalting your man or their man. So that's the key question for this agenda point. What private companies are these? Who's going to have this new monopoly? Look, if you take the state monopoly, Madam Minister, who are you giving the monopoly to? Private enterprises. You're even giving up control of certain works. You can't see in your bill when you give supervision to a third party who will oversee that third party and how it carried out the task. So we're not little children and we know well that every loss of state monopoly in this country goes either into tycoon hands or goes into party hands or goes into the hands of foreign multinational companies. This practice has shown from 5 October 2000 to today. Never or almost never did your neoliberal economic dogma bring any profit to the Serbian market and to domestic companies. Either the money has been transferred to tycoons or the money has been transferred to your party companies or the monopoly for performing certain activities has been given to foreign companies, such as in trade, banking or in the case of private security, which you teach in your hands, by four companies that have a monopoly on private security in Serbia. Wait, is there anything left in Serbia Serbian? Is there anything left that this country will rule by selling Telekom when you sell the EPS, when you sell the medical spas, when you detach the Waterway Directorate? So the question arises – what is your explanation, why are you further dissipating the state of Serbia? There are monopolies of states that cannot be privatized. You've done similarly with water companies. We had a mess in the field. One of the main reasons for such floods is the unsettled area of coastal protection and the work of water companies that are now nowhere, nor are national obligations, i.e. the republican level of government, nor are the obligations of local self-government, nor are they privatised, so it's private responsibility. Will we now and in the case of the Waterway Directorate, or the Law on Navigation and the Ports of Internal Waters, receive similar chaos, so that jurisdiction, what is the jurisdiction of the State, what is the jurisdiction of the private and who controls and leads it? So, in time, we warn you that this demonolysing of state resources can lead either to chaos or corruption. So don't let the state of Serbia down again, don't let this country fall into the hands of tycoons, party buddies and foreign multinational firms. Get the state to deal with its resources. The management of the Waterway Directorate is not good, change it, bring in a capable management that will reduce costs and make it more efficient, train workers of the companies there to be able to perform a security function, not to hand over security into the hands of the monopoly of private security that are again in the function of foreigners. So we also have a commendation for the law, to see that we are very, so to speak constructively when we find something good in your proposals for legal solutions, and this is to prevent tax evasion from being avoided from Article 10, which prescribes the transportation of a person by a yacht, especially renting, where you have very precisely stated that only a yacht of domestic state belongings can be carried out in the possession of a domestic, natural or legal person. In this way, the bill prevents tax evasion for companies that rent yachts and recreational vessels registered abroad. This proposal requires that the vessel's domestic register be entered, making it mandatory for them to pay yacht taxes. We commend, because only a small circle of the richest has the opportunity to buy, register, rent a yacht and earn income from it. That's why he needs to pay taxes on the use of a motor-powered yacht and the cost of a checkup. Well done. So nothing's disputed. When something is right, no matter what we are the opposition and that fierce opposition to your authority, we will commend it, we do not have that problem. But we have a problem when you continue the continuity of bad government on October 5th, DS or I don't know who else has been in power so far. So, the key question - what is your logic to disenfranchise another state monopoly? And explain to me why the Waterway Directorate is incapable of doing this job? That's the key question. So you're explaining the privatisation of these resources by not doing her job. Why isn't he doing his job well? Because there's no good management, because there's no machinery, because there's not enough workers, because there's not enough budget? You, Madam Minister, are no expert on the ministry you run, you don't have those qualifications, you're not an engineer, I understand you're an economist. What's the key question here right now, can you explain to me from that economic angle what was the problem with state-owned Waterway Directorate, or its monopoly in this sphere? These are strategic resources, land, water, spas, other natural resources, river flows, forests, ore, this is not sold, it is used in the function of domestic economic development. And it does not function as private party, tycoon and foreign interests. So we need as much as we can to place every state resource of economic and natural wealth in the role of domestic economic development. Here, if you don't believe me, you can look up to a country that's related to the second item of the agenda, or this joint search, it's South Korea. Here's South Korea is exactly the model of what I'm talking about. South Korea developed by closing its market with customs and non-tariff protection measures, by raising domestic economy and protecting the state interest in all of this by replacing imports with domestic production. Here's an example, so look at yourself, look at a little example of the economic development of South Korea. You'll see that people have done everything the opposite of what they've been doing since October 5, 2000 to this day. When I say you, I mean directly to you, Madam Minister, because you came from Councillor Miroljub Labus to Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. So there's no difference between G17 plus SNS, you're a symbol of continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4326	Mr. Beard, I'll make it up to you. I let you have one broader context of looking at the current agenda points. I think you've gone a little bit off the subject. I don't see what's in common between what's just been said, membership in political parties and what's the subject and the point of the agenda. Please return to your agenda. Of course I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4327	Thank you. I don't have a problem, Mr. Chairman, if you'd like to call me as a national MP, so be my guest if you don't agree with my exposure. So there's continuity. The point here is this isn't a new law, it's not a law that came up with something creative and came up well. This is the continuity of the decommissioning state from 5 October 2000 to today. We also have the continuity of personnel from G17 plus personnel to SNS personnel. I don't understand why the SNS is ashamed of Dinkic. If he is your partner, tell us – we love Dinkic, he is a real man, well done, we took his best staff, we took Zorana Mihajlović, we took Ivica Kotic. What's so problematic about them being good guys? Say good for me. So, the key question here and I'm going to point and finish, should we leave state monopoly to the private sector? Explain to me, I repeat for the third time the question – why does the state monopoly not work well, is the mismanagement of the Directorate? Change management. What's the reason the state can't do it right, and the strategic question is? And who are you planning on handing over these monopolies to? Because if you pull out a monopoly, someone else takes over that monopoly. Who's that? The tycoons, your party companies that are going to win in a set-up tender or by a multinational company that you're dealing with? There's no fourth. If anyone in Serbia believes in fair tenders, then he lives in fairy tales. It is clear that most of the tenders here are set up either for tycoons that finance you or for foreign companies that you are dealing with or for your own private party companies that you are setting up tenders with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4328	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him, MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4329	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is carried out. I'm sorry that the previous speaker talked 2/3 of the time about the good or bad things that the DS did, and only 1/3 has dedicated it to a bad law that wants to implement in this SNS room. Whether it's fear of Zvonko Veseinovic or the SNS tycoon, I don't know, but to remind him that DS has not been in power in the Republic of Serbia for five years. The question is who would have said that DS did not defend the right to free elections after 24 April. We do not complain, the DS will always defend freedom of choice, freedom of speech and will be against anyone taking votes in a radical way, no matter how much we disagree with those parties at all. So it would've been nice if someone had considered it when they were talking here in this room, if it wasn't for the DS question, would anyone have a pay phone to talk to her here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4330	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4331	Mr. Chairman and Member of 107 regarding the direct dignity of the National Assembly, you did react once, but there were brighter opportunities in which you, I think, were obliged to react more vigorously when it came to what we just heard from one of the authorized representatives. From a man who still seems fantasticly fascinated by the SNS and this government, mostly, individuals in it, a man who is able to talk only about it day and night. Among other things, because he probably doesn't even know what the content of that bill is to be discussed, but it's no excuse. So it directly disrupts the integrity of this high home. And that man keeps doing it in a completely unworthy way, repeating in the manner of a solid yet corrupt reproductive device the same thing over and over again. If someone misses to notice some things change in this society, not only does technology advance, but even broken phonographs necessarily end up at waste, the political times of the ladies and gentlemen change, but also the one who deals with such lows and indifferences in the high home of the National Assembly, and it ends without doubt and without any reservation, in the waste. This time politically, be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4332	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, not once, I have tried repeatedly to point out to Mr. Obradovic that it is important that we all respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It's an obligation for all of us. And go back to what is the current topic and agenda point. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr. Milojic, I didn't ask you, do you want to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4333	I thank the chairman. Article 103 and Article 104 have been injured. Article 103, paragraph 7, where it states that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions laid down in Article 1, 2, 4, and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way, the abuse of the rights provided for in this Article shall impose the measures provided for in Article 108. Now I ask - on what basis did you give Mr. Milojic to replicate the speaker before him? As far as I know, he's not the head of his party's parliamentary group, and that's exactly what he was doing, so he's replicating. I remind you that you are required by the same article to take away his time from the overall duration of the parliamentary group and I urge you to do so. The previous speaker, Mr. Milojic, I would like to remind you that he is not in Smederjevska Palanca, that he is no longer the president of the municipality and that he cannot boast here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4334	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. ) Mr. Milojičić, I did not give my word, and it was not the basis of the reporting that was the replica of the moment, I am talking about the situation of the past. The basis for the infringement of the Rules of Procedure was Article 106. You can't get a replica of a specified breach of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4335	So, a few things I'd like to explain to Mr. Obradovic, I'd even say for moments a funny MP. First of all, I can't race Mr. Obradovic. He is also the official presidential candidate Dveri since 30 September 2016. Congratulations on that. But what's very important about this law, where I think and it seems that you may not have understood it well, which I can also understand, because as a graduate philologist, you may not be standing well with some concepts, so I want to explain. We're not talking about giving or selling waterways here, we're talking about maintenance. So there's a big difference between what's called maintaining international and interstate waterways and any kind of ownership over it. The directorate you're talking about is an excellent directorate. It is part of the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure. The directorate keeps working. It will not be extinguished at any moment, nor will anyone in the management and management of the Directorate itself be changed. For some time now, it has been dealing with river information systems that are very important, which are used by several institutions in our country, which are customs and police and only the Ministry. So, every moment, every ship that's on Danube or Sava, every moment we know where it's going, where it's going, how many people are on that ship, what that ship is carrying, and it's really very important when we're even talking about water transport. One part of the job, which we think has never had enough money, which is self-preservation, technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways, will deal with it after a public call, a tender, which I believe, although you say that anyone in this country believes in it, I believe in the laws we make, and I believe that the laws are being laid down and there is no more transparent and transparent way for me to choose the best that can be handled, which is through a tender. Designing what needs to be done and monitoring after that when someone does this will do this Directorate. So we can only get to the quality of technical maintenance of waterways and waterways, and I think that's important, and at speed, not to mention one fact, which is that the Directorate was unable to do because of the age of its equipment, and I'm going to tell you that the age between 35 and 40 years of ships that it has is, that it really does it in the most qualitative way possible. When you talk about the possibility of it going somewhere, I don't know in other hands, as you mention it, I'll tell you that the best specialized company that might be able to do that is a PIM. She's state-owned. So you're wrong about that part where you're saying that someone with intent through this law wants to take something from the state, so someone else is, so someone's gonna make money, and we're not gonna get anything. If we think about whether or not we're going to market, yes, we want a market where it can help us have a more efficient and quality service. It is certain that there are other parts that are always natural monopolies and will always remain the property of the state. So you have it both in energy and in infrastructure, both in gas pipelines and in transport, etc. We're only talking about maintenance here, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4336	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4337	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, after this exchange of arguments and a lot of conflict today, firstly I would like to express one great satisfaction on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group by making Serbia much better ranked on the World Bank's "duing business" list by all parameters and in line with what Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said today, which, of course, puts us on the map as a favourable investment destination, as one of the main economic economies of hab and hav for investment in this part of Europe, and I think that this is the most important news today and for the next few days. Of course, I have to look back on the debate from before. I did not expect to have a debate in 2016 on monopolies and antimonopolies, and is it good for this country to have a market economy, to have competition and, of course, a better service for the economy and citizens of RS. What is our position today, and in which we agree on Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, that we will defend the values of the market economy in a very good way and that we will fight to make our country the stronger, the more competition in all segments of economic life, but also of course social life, because it can in any case delegate new values, the competitiveness of our country, our business societies, business entities, but, of course, in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and help to better position our country on the economic map of Europe, and the world. Of course, I will only comment on this agreement with the Republic of Korea. He's very important. Not only do we have an air traffic agreement, I must point out that during this year in parliament, we have verified the agreement on avoidance of double taxation, we have also verified the Agreement on the Protection of Investments, and I hope so, and this agreement will be accepted, and that is precisely what it says about us being very interested and ready to work with the Republic of Korea on joint co-operation, not only political, but what is most important for our country when it comes to economic co-operation. It is also very important to note that this year, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Korea has moved its headquarters from Zagreb to Belgrade, and it is precisely those signals that say that Serbia is becoming a very favourable destination with a good business environment for investment, not only from the EU, not only from our partner countries with which we have the best trade exchange such as Germany, Italy, BiH, the countries in the environment, but also from countries from around the world, and we must agree that the Republic of Korea is one of the countries from which investments are very welcome in any case and which can contribute to that so-called. Flowing over the character of these investments that can contribute to these investments bringing new technologies, new knowledge, new management models, that is, governance in our country create new jobs, but also create new jobs for those who are the most educated, who have skills and thus create a multiplier result by attracting such investments and the best investors in our country, working with the best to contribute to those who are young, who have finished the best universities and universities remain here. We just need companies like "Jura" and such as "Samsung", and such as, of course, "LG", but we also have to make an effort to get into a situation in which one of Slovakia or Poland is located. I will note that in Slovakia and "Kia" and "Hundai" there are factories, that Slovakia generates about $15 billion in exports only from the automotive industry, that the Samsung factory in Poland, so that we hope that we will contribute to the joint forces, with the policy implemented by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, but also by the whole team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the majority in parliament, to the opening of production plants in Serbia and thus create thousands of jobs that we need, therefore, with the presence of the best and most powerful companies in the world. Of course, one suggestion, i.e. the Deputy Prime Minister's proposal, to make its own contribution as much as possible with the Republic of Korea in the next period, to make the next step the signing of the Free Trade Agreement and simply to turn Serbia towards co-operation with the most economically powerful countries, countries that can help us develop ourselves, and, of course, to make the most of our own potentials, which we definitely have. Someone just mentioned the potentials of South Korea. When it comes to natural resources, southern Korea cannot be measured with Serbia. Serbia has a lot of natural resources, we have material resources and, of course, we need to invest a lot more, learn from others, learn from Koreans who had 87 dollars of GDP in 1967, now have 25,000, invest in education, learn and cooperate with the best and, most importantly, open our country, open our market, but for good competition, strong competition, and then we will have the best results in the economy, the best goods and services that we will export, not only in Europe but throughout the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4338	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4339	Thank you. Dear Minister, we have before us the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law that you amended last year, 2015, twice and I understand the objective and idea of improving that law. I've read it carefully several times with my associates, and on the one hand, you're liberalizing it, and you're putting it as the main attribute of this law to play competition in some areas, and on the other hand, you're centralizing and monopoly, on the other hand of this law, I'm going to try to go through it and discuss hopefully with you about it. Of course, someone who has been involved in the water industry, I am against the introduction of private operators in the area concerning the maintenance of waterways, and especially from the point of view of such an explanation which stands, where in the explanation that has come to us here it says that in the past four years there has not been enough steam and we have not been able to deal with the work that is very important, not only for the maintenance of waterways, to remind you, there is also the maintenance of coastal fortifications, naperes, panal buildings on the tarves, bulkheads, bulkheads, transducers, etc., which are not only in the service of transport on the roads, but also what is called public security, especially in urban areas, such as Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, etc. If we don't have the money to finance it through our Directorate, I don't understand you very well, how do we get the money to let private operators go? I really didn't understand. Did you mention the concession? I didn't understand it was a concession, nor do I know anyone interested in the question of concessions. Such action, above all, is of paramount importance to remain in public hands and public interest. We have an example of Hungary that privatised public water companies and a complete devastation of their water industry. By the way, you mentioned to Holland a little while ago, if I remember correctly, and I remember well, 22 regional public enterprises maintain water streams in the Netherlands. They have about 11,000 employees somewhere at 13,000 kilometers long, and they're completely public, not private, and it's an exact piece of information. We've decided here, or you've decided to leave for a few reasons. You say, we'll save money, which we don't normally have in the budget, we'll save it by calling a tender, or you've called the Public Procurement Act, and introducing private firms that will get a license in the next year. You don't tell me what's gonna happen in the next year until they get a license, who's gonna do these jobs or we're not gonna do them like we've done before. Then those money that doesn't exist will be able to be spent on jobs we've never done before, because there was no money. A completely unclear reason why we're letting a private operator go, unless we have any idea what we're going to do with PIM and Ivan Milutinovic if we might know who's going to buy it, so we're going to give him a concession as a private tomorrow and that's the reason we're going to sell it and sell Ivan Milutinović better. Then that's what you have to say. Yeah, the equipment's old. Otherwise, equipment in water companies across Europe is not some latest, because there is no overly new technology, and I don't see how if we save money on the maintenance of waterbags, or one of the serious ones we have, it seems to me that Mlave and a few boaters, to save for capital investments, what is ahead of us, and what is our obligation. First of all, I think we need to talk here about the serious assets we need to invest in the jobs we're talking about today, and then we need to see how we're going to spend them. If you ask me, yes, it must be public enterprises in special status, such as water companies. They can't go to privatisation, and that job has to work exclusively for the state. What are the effects of those savings you're talking about? Is there anything we can do with that money? We can't do anything. Another problematic point, which I think has objections and those involved in shipping, is the introduction of a physical and technical security obligation, where you are calling for the FTO Act, which was adopted in the Republic of Serbia and which clearly states that the Private Security Act defines which are mandatory security facilities. These are objects of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, as well as objects of special importance, whose damage and destruction could have serious consequences for the lives and health of people or who are of interest to defend the Republic of Serbia. You have never defined that these objects are from the water industry, we have never defined the obligation, or that it goes to the Port Navigation Act on the internal waters of the port operator. The Water Directorates aren't much of a strategic interest. I don't see why we're obliging and costing operators to have physical-technical security unless there's some hidden intention, so we want to open up the market for the FTO where it doesn't belong. Otherwise, we have an obligation in the existing law that both ships and ports must have a security plan that binds them, and when they are tied up and not tied up, they must have a security plan and have people who do so, and that is certainly not physical and technical security, but people who have finished shipping schools. So that's what we already have today in the existing law. You're changing this bill of law and making a plan of security. I agree, but I think you should supplement that. In fact, I think by derogating the Directorate, you've just explained that the Directorate will be tasked with overseeing, absolutely agreeing that he's doing surveillance, he should be involved in building projects, he shouldn't have the exclusive right to create projects, I don't know if he has personnel capacity right now, but what is important, security plans, where you locate government decisions. It'll be the government's document, if I understand the bill well. It does not say who proposes this law, whether it works in the future of the Directorate, and why we take this security plan to the most competent people in the Republic of Serbia and give incompetent people sitting in government, who are politicians, that plan to do, and you have not defined how this proposal comes before the government itself. Further problems ahead of us are a formal problem. You mentioned a privatization of the New Zealand port. You have negotiations by the Prime Minister, people involved in these negotiations. I'm not sure that the operator, or anyone interested in getting into this business, and that he's aware that when he buys that new legal entity, he's going to lose his approval to do the port's work. You do a strange thing in the law, and if the ownership structure changes, on the one hand, you take away his approval and refer it back to you. It reminds me of the situation, somewhere, from the beginning of 2000, when we started to attract investors and convince some foreign companies to come to Serbia, and then explain to him once "Henkel" that he should invest in a trafo station of 50, 60 or 100,000 euros, and then explain to him in the next minute that when he invests that it is no longer his. So then, you remember that well, we had to change the law and let low-voltage investors become owners of it and explain simply to come in common with those people who invest and don't realize if they're investing that it's not theirs. You want to sell the Port of Novi Sad, under the circumstances that you only know, and you want to tell that operator that at that time he buys, he has no license, or license, approval, but that he will come to you and you will give him approval by automated means. In the very comment on the property, which you have given an explanation, is an argument which, in my opinion, is very, very contradictory. You are saying in the reasoning of the member, that the provision of this law requiring a new authorisation to carry out port operations in all of the preceding cases, the change in management capital, is important for at least a few reasons, so you explain, and then you explain to us that first if someone buys actions or otherwise takes over an existing port operator, to continue to carry out port operations, it is not clear why he would refuse the domestic market to obtain a new authorisation in the administrative procedure. What is the reason, if the ownership structure of a company is changed, there is no existing approval, except, and here I am going back to this second part of the law, in the first part of the law you wanted to liberalize, like letting some private operators go, and here that every future investor or random shareholder that is enrolled in a part of the action, one of these existing legal entities, must come right to your feet and ask you for a new consent, that you tell them – mothers we, we will quickly issue you that consent. I don't see any reason why you're bound by a legal destiny, or ownership capital, or the kind of activity that you're dealing with. In the end, you have defined by special laws that this activity cannot be changed and that you can take away the action. Yeah, I understand some ports have been turned, or they'll be turned, or maybe they're turned into something that wasn't theirs, at the beginning of the purpose. I don't understand why you're bound by the law in 2003 and the privatisation of that day. You've changed your fees, too. I absolutely support you in precise, clear data that something written from - to cannot stand in law. It can't be a private finding of an officer, a directorate, whether one legal person will charge a tax, a reduction of 2%, and one out of 30%. It absolutely opens the door to corruption. You haven't told us how many such reductions and reductions in taxis, port taxis, I talk about them, and I absolutely support them, where I see again your liberal gene that we want to create a competition for NIS and reduce 30% for TNG transport and create a competition that will benefit Serbian citizens. On the other hand, I'm worried that you've abolished the possibility of reducing to 50% of the port tax, which is no longer possible, as I understand by this law to abolish the products of steel and ore necessary for their production. I ask you for an answer whether it means that neither the Chinese partner in Smederev will have the right to cut taxes, port fees, or that means that we will re-engage him with some phantom interstate agreement, to free the fees, and the TIS club, JEEP commercials and other business entities to charge with the port tax. Who's going to guarantee us that you won't release the Chinese partner in Smedereva again and put everyone else in a worse position. We're going back to a completely vague definition of this law. If so, what will those who do the monitoring of this law tell us and why are we changing this law? What will the EU say if we put a Chinese partner in a different status and, for example, The biggest company in the world of the TIS club? And the TIS club has to pay a full charge for loading steel and a Chinese partner doesn't have to pay. Is that even the market we treat to be fair? To the end, a temporary overload site. It's a particularly important thing, because it's infinitely strange in this law. You say, while taking away the right of local self-government, businesses, etc. etc. there is also a member of the law, and then you say that the commercial overload site is the place where only the overload activity is carried out in relation to the extravagant goods, which is perfectly clear, and in the second part of the rule, you say in the temporary overloaded places that carry out cargo activities for the purpose of delivering gravel and sand for the purpose of building infrastructure facilities in the immediate vicinity of the waterway. What does that mean? That could mean two things. That you and I report to the tender, that I work and wait for you to set a date for me to buy sand, and that, in the meantime, by a special request issued by your ministry to a privileged tender, allow him to have a temporary loading position in the immediate vicinity, in case that infrastructure facility is there. Or that means we're going to tie him up, the investor, and I don't see what our corridors are exactly on Corridor 7, where we have the most and the most loans that we can and whether we make them work from there are temporary loading places or not, but we're still referring to all the investors exclusively to you. Every reference in procedures to only one institution that is unnecessary is an open door to corruption. There is no need for us to have everything in Serbia, whoever deals with this activity is asking only the ministry, and on the other hand, we derrogate the agency, or the Directorate, which should carry most of the work. You mentioned waterways in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Danube-Sava-Tisa and DTD, I expected a few sentences here to hear and what we're going to do with these waterways, especially the part of Sava and the DTD. You know that there are mixed responsibilities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina between the Republic of Serbia and the Voda of Vojvodina, that the waterways are excluded from maintenance. I'm very interested in when we're going to deal with it, where there's the greatest potential of scattered goods, and that's in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, I mean, first of all, in cereals, I mean, because of sugar. When we're going to deal with the solution to the biggest problem, the biggest black dots and absolutely not the DTD's waterway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4340	Thank you, Mr. Jesic. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4341	I've listened very carefully to you and I think a few things are very important that I should answer to you and, of course, to the citizens so that they don't get different wrong, first of all, impressions. When you were talking about only the Directorate, about maintenance, you were saying, you mentioned floods, I think you have to make a difference. You have entered one part completely into the water economy and all those dealing with what is called flood defense, and the whole other segment, of course, is close and related, but the other segment is the Directorate itself and the maintenance of international and interstate waterways. So defending against the flood is not the work of the Directorate we mentioned. It's very important that it's so-called. what do you call derogating the department's affairs. Absolutely not. The Directorate's working today, I'd say, even more serious business. The third important thing when we're talking about the director's business at all, when you mention it, and that the tender will get private companies, I don't understand it. So there's no private and state in the tender. In a tender or a public call, everyone who can do this job, whether it's a state or private company, is less important to me than what the conditions of the tender are and what these companies are supposed to offer and get when we talk first of all about maintenance itself. What we will gain from this is safe and faster and better quality and more efficient technical maintenance of waterways, interstate and international. Furthermore, even when thinking about what we want to do in the country when we're talking about water traffic and waterways at all, it's to see exactly what anyone in these activities is doing, what is a carrier, what can be better and more efficient, not thinking about when we're going to tender whether it's going to get a private or state company. I mentioned a state that's also very good. When you talk about it, I don't understand one thing. When you talk about physical security, and in general security, first of all, I think you should read the Private Security Act carefully, because it says exactly - ships and ports. We have aligned this law, among other things, with that law. Don't you think it's normal for security to exist when we talk about both ports and ships? It would be like living in an apartment and having your door completely open, never locking that door. You must be locking them up. It's important that it exists, because we have various situations that have been happening to us and that have happened to us in the past, when we're talking about security at all. Secondly, the Danube Commission has ordered, among other things, a recommendation, a pardon, to all states that they are obliged to deal with security, or to write down security and ships and ports themselves. Secondly, when you mention money at all, you say – there is no money so the Directorate will not deal with it. No, we just think it's very important to do both projecting and monitoring, and that we can do this better and more effectively in this way. But there are also certain critical points, when we talk about waterways, there are only in one part of Belgrade towards Bezdan 12 or 15, etc., that is, for example. is co-organising with EU funds. Some 15m euros will be invested in what's been called meeting critical points that have been critical for a long time. It is a very important part of Luke Novi Sad, or important area that you mention, and it seems to me that there are some misunderstandings there, too. I think we've shown that we're not doing anything-- us moms. And it just seems to me that you will, when we talk about the port of action itself, that you want us to carry from knee to knee the right to perform port's work. So, when someone gets the right to perform port's work, they have to meet certain obligations and criteria. He's not coming to the Ministry, he's coming to the Port Agency, which you've established, an independent body, which is required to give everything that's necessary in order for anyone to ever get the opportunity to perform port's activity according to the conditions that exist at the moment. When we talk about privatising Luke Novi Sad, a contract on how infrastructure will be used, how much will be invested, in what period, etc. If there is a later change in ownership, or change, then there must be a new right to carry out port's activity, because conditions, first of all, can be completely different. And it's natural that every time we have to check, and exactly what's been happening to us over the past 10 and over, when we talk about port privatisations, it's because he did what he wanted and he didn't know the system at all, and we've gotten many letters from the EU, a lot of criticism, just because we haven't arranged the port's work. When you mention Chinese Hestil, yes, he won't be able to cut his fee. It won't be possible, because it would, and no deal will be able to reduce the fee. The fee is as prescribed and will remain, because that would mean directly so-called. State aid. This would also mean that we are destroying our Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you know for sure that we will not, because we are defined towards European standards and towards EU accession. What is the essence of this law is not whether the Directorate is going to do this part of the job or that part of the job, but what is the essence of this law is that it helps to arrange for the port of action and that we finally know who the holders of each area are. It seems a shame that this law has not been passed long before, because some of the things that you are now mentioning look like a period when certain ports like Luke Belgrade have been privatized, so when it was up to my mother, I will perform the port's work, and no port activity has ever been done there. Here you will know exactly what the port area is owned, the public property of the state is, therefore, infrastructure and land, on which basis the state is the one, as one of the MPs said, who will strategically define what we do with ports. But why shouldn't operators show up that can allow us to have more overloads, more unloadings, and that this country earns and employs people? That's the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4342	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4343	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished Madam Ministers with Associates, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support these two laws in the voting day, as we believe both of these laws are extremely important for the country's continued better management towards the natural resources that the Republic of Serbia has. I'm not going to say something I've come up with, but apparently many have not heard one wise thought, which says that the state is not a solution to the problem, but in itself it can be a problem. The state is something that needs to find a way to solve the problem. We support any changes in the law, even if it happens every year, two years, because the moment something is found missing, that something is needed, it should go into corrections and repairs when possible, when it isn't, then maybe change all the laws. The important thing about these amendments and the addition of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters is that it defines more clearly through its Articles 28, 29 and 30, Articles 214a, (b) and (v). and practically fully protects the property of the Republic of Serbia, but without question, not producing the retroactiveness of a law which is not allowed on those entities who, through privatisation procedures, during a period of time when the law allowed it until 2003, or from 2003, acquired property rights on something that cannot be acquired under the new law. This was obviously necessary, because in practice it produced problems and this clearly defines itself and creates a single cross-section in the ports themselves, in all infrastructure facilities relating to inland navigation. It is very important that we understand how many rivers we have to work on. Luke is a great perspective of the Republic of Serbia and needs to create conditions, and this law improves this, to make ports as efficient and functional as possible and to get more people jobs in ports. We have seen that the condition of the rivers themselves is such that the Sava River is almost unmanned during the summer period in one of its principal parts. We expect that these things will also be regulated, with the possibility that, through the engagement of business entities, any private, state-owned, and this part of the regulation area will be resolved. It is a good thing with these legal changes a special accent is placed in the field of ecological and water-flow protection. Let us not forget that many large cities, including Belgrade, are supplied with water in the immediate vicinity and environment, if not directly from the water streams themselves. I think these precisions that were made in this law create the possibility that our rivers that have become far cleaner than they used to get that beautiful green color that we all like to see, and that there's an economic activity in full capacity. The relations between the authorities of the republican rank, autonomous province and local self-government have also been clearly defined, since in practice it has created certain problems when it comes to temporary locations where a specific action could be carried out or carried out. It is good that conditions are created in terms of environmental protection, but also in general, not just a river, to give certain discounts when it comes to energy loads that we consider eco-like energies. I am not someone who is for liberal capitalism, never was, nor will I be. In this law, I don't even see the space that opens and creates it, but I see a space that wants to define in a clear way, to use the jargon expression, the rules of the game in such a way that they are exclusively and in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, in the interest of the economy that we have to raise to a certain level. Those who do not believe in fair tenders have to look in the mirror to ask why they do not believe in fair tenders, do they not believe it because they take all the fees they receive from their committees and do not pay them even at the expense of the party, but rather keep them in their own pockets, and I see that some are sorry that they did not have the opportunity to privatise the PIM and other state institutions or state enterprises, as many shipping companies no longer exist have privatised. I am particularly pleased with this second law, which confirms the agreement, namely which should confirm the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, because air traffic is stupid and it is important to talk about its importance, is very important for co-operation with the Republic of Korea, and this shows in fact that we are going really serious and stable steps forward, because the Republic of Korea would never achieve its economic successes that it has concluded agreements that did not go in favour of it, for which there was no legitimate economic interest. This interest, in this agreement, is of mutual interest to both Serbia and Korea. It is obvious that investments in Serbia will continue. It is very important that the more citizens in Serbia get the chance to live from their work and gradually stabilise the economy, and thus raise the overall level of life. I underline, in the day of voting, we will support this law and we will also support any necessary changes that are important and necessary in order to speed up its fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4344	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4345	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, representatives of the ministry, representatives of the proposings, the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters has already been changed once last year, 2015. I guess you couldn't or couldn't predict all the provisions that change today. Some 180 members were then changed, and today about 50 members of this law are changing. On the other hand, if this change is the result of something that has been found in practice not to be good and needs to be changed, I certainly support such a way of working, that everything you find in practice is not right now and you try to amend it by law. That is why I cannot accept the fact that since March of the month the Assembly has done nothing and has not passed any laws. This is the criticism I'm giving you as Deputy Prime Minister. We had only two laws on the agenda, in one we changed one member, in the other four members, now this is the third law with 50 members of March of the month, in seven, eight months. So, if I believe that the government's job is to lead the country to the EU, the way to the EU means to comply with the EU's legal system, which is a huge job and it implies the adoption of a series of laws and new laws, amendments and additions to existing laws. Also, I don't think it's in the works that this law that we have on the agenda today is addressed to the Assembly by an urgent procedure. Be careful, the law is referred to as an emergency procedure, and the last article says that the port operator, shipowners and directors are obliged to comply with their operations with the provisions of this law by 31 December 2018. There is plenty of time until 31 December 2018. You sent the law on October 13th. If he were a regular procedure, and had not been misused by an emergency procedure, I would say, because there are no adequate reasons, or the reasons for the urgent procedure, are not the ones prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this law would have been on the agenda of this Assembly in seven days. What's going to happen in these seven days? Is the health and safety of people threatened, people's lives? That's usually the reason for an emergency procedure. Is the state at risk, if we were to discuss this law for seven today? They would also allow MPs to adequately prepare and analyse a law that treats a rather narrow area of expertise. We did something else in the Assembly last week, today we have this law on the agenda. I don't think that's correct and that there's no need in such a way to refer the laws to the National Assembly. What's good is that the area of water traffic is being arranged. I think it was a good law in 2015 that regulated commercial shipping and that made some good rules and introduced, to say, the order and obligations of drivers, brokers and agents and treated that area at all. Also, in this law, I have to say that there are good and bad solutions. Those solutions that we consider to be the SDS parliamentary group, that they are bad we tried to fix with amendments, so please look at these amendments and adopt those amendments. Of course, our support for this law will depend on whether you adopt some of the key amendments we have submitted. I think it's a good thing this law removes discretionary powers from the Agency. I don't think the Agency should have the possibility of arbitating whether to give someone up to 30% or less reduction, but to make it as precise as it is. In any case, the abolition of discretionary powers reduces the possibility of corruption, and that's done well. In principle, I agree that the Waterways Directorate should not have a monopoly position in technical maintenance of waterways. I think private specialized companies can do it in a better and better way, but in order to be able to make a decision on whether it's better how it has been so far or possible to engage in a tender of private enterprises or state enterprises, however, we should have some information about this analysis. We don't have enough data to explain, and we don't have enough clear analysis, especially economic. You claim that the funds that are now allocated to the Directorate, i.e. for the salaries of crew members, will practically be for those who serve the fleet, the Waterway Directorates, the costs of maintenance of the fleet and other costs will be sufficient to be chosen in the tender of a company that will handle the business of technical maintenance of waterways. I can't know if it's true or not, because you didn't give any evidence of such a claim. We don't even know what the money fund is, what the budget for this Directorate is, or how much on the market you didn't write, cost such services. You were supposed to say at the annual level it's going to take so much and so much, and now we have so much in the budget that we can estimate it. On the other hand, it remains unclear what happens to employees in the Waterways Directorate. You said she wouldn't be suspended, she'd be doing other jobs. We can't have crews and people, ship workers doing other jobs. They know they're doing the jobs they've been doing so far. I ask the question – how many will lose their jobs, or what will they do, and do you have any programs and suggestions on how to hire these people? How many people are out of work when the monopoly position of the Waterway Directorate is lifted? There is no way we can agree with the obligation imposed on shipowners in Article 21. I believe that the ship's costs will increase dramatically if this law is passed and they are forced to engage in private physical security. So this law imposes on every ship's ship to have private security or other means of self-defense. That it organises self-defense, means that crew members should go to training from aikidai karate and they will be able to use martial arts to protect themselves from pirates and from stealing from barges, or their ships, and the target is definitely cargo and equipment on board ships. I think you should know that these pirate attacks that happen relatively often in one black spot, which is Smederevo, that these attacks are mostly in the season overloads and that these attacks involve up to 30 armed persons who attack the ship in several boats. People are armed, attack the ship, enter the ship, and steal everything from that ship. This aikide and karate cannot be prevented, so the self-protection that you have proposed in the law is pointless. As far as security is concerned, when you say security is being introduced to the ship, I assume you're imagining that people with long pipes are standing on board and defending the ship from those who attack them with guns. It's a lot more common in movies, I don't think it's possible in reality. I just can't imagine this situation where they're being attacked, and they're being shot, private security from ships, and they're killing pirates. So, you suggest private security be introduced to all ships passing through Serbia. So, a foreign ship under a foreign flag that is transiting through Serbia, comes to Serbia, then stops, must hire private security, lets private Serbian security onto its ship, especially has confidence in them and they protect it as it passes through Serbia. I think we're gonna be funny. Simply Serbia has one great tradition in shipping in general, we are signatories of various agreements that regulate the rules of navigation in the Danube. I think it's extremely irresponsible to force ships, or shipmen to do something like that. That's why I've submitted an amendment that would simply free the shipowners of such a ridiculous obligation. The only one who can prevent pirates and steal is the police, who have the right to use force in this country and it is known that the crew is locked on board their cabin and calling the police on that occasion. So the way to fix this problem we certainly have, to prevent theft is to apply the law and to determine all port areas in Serbia that you have not set. When certain port areas are set to be designated port operators, I mean the part where ships anchor, simply when the barges come to the cargo, one enters the cargo port, the others are waiting somewhere on that road, and that's up to five kilometers away from the port. They simply now bind themselves without any arrangement, or anchors without respect for the rules. It is necessary to determine the port area to know where to anchor and where to anchor them while waiting for the cargo to be provided by the port operator who is to arrange the full work of bringing or pushing those barges to the loading site. So, the port operator has the ability to engage and security and in coordination with the police to protect those ships. Don't impose an obligation on the boaters if they can't meet and have no money to fulfill. Also, I can't accept one of the changes you've suggested, and that's the possibility that ships are supplied with fuel, so I guess some kind of pump, except for ports in the territory of a local self-government unit where the border crossing area for international river traffic is determined. This means for those living in Belgrade that the pump will be at the concrete hall at the dock where there are at least 20 restaurants, where the promenade, where "Beograda on water" ends or starts and both Arabs and foreigners and tourists come. Well, right there, because otherwise there's a border crossing for passenger traffic, and now there can be a pump. I think it's an ecological disaster to have a pump in that place. I've proposed an amendment on how to change it, it doesn't have to be just in the ports, but it can be somewhere where the regulatory plan determines that the pump can be. This looks to me like it's written, just to predict a pump in that place in downtown Belgrade. I think the Ministry should also be dealing with the topic, why there are ships of domestic companies that are under foreign flags. It means that they have some benefits from being under a foreign flag and seeing what would be the affirmative measures that the government could suggest so that they would understand and that they would be better off being all under the national flag and seeing what kind of subsidies could be given to shipowners, or people who deal with this activity, who live on these ships and perform their work. Of course, it is of interest that the cargo is much larger, or that the trade in ships is much greater. I also think the government should tell us what's going to happen to JRB, it used to be a huge firm. It is now in a major crisis, in which the problem will be solved which is of great importance. So, I repeat, if we could adopt some of these amendments that we have proposed in that case, our parliamentary group could support the other provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4346	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4347	Thank you for your opinion, above all, on the law and on certain suggestions. Any amendment that can really improve the quality of the law will be accepted, though from experience with your MP group in your country is all or nothing, so we'll see. A few things you said, I think we should explain, especially when we're talking about ship's safety obligations. I said a little while ago that the Danube Commission itself recommended that there must be a ship security system. That doesn't mean this aikid or judo story, it sounds cute, but it's completely incorrect. This means that you are going to train at the MUP to get licenses and that you know how to plan security and security at all. It's about the concept of self-preservation. It's very important, you mentioned a specific site, it's not just an anchor, it's a port, if there's fences, no fences, etc. So everything has to be guarded. What it really wants to achieve and what it is is also a recommendation from the Danube Commission and what we see from real life is this coordination between river police, between security on board, between captains. So that's what we have to have to say in free language bound and, of course, that security on the ship itself, like I said. So I'm sure we'll stay with this member of the ship's obligation to have security, I think it's in the ship's best interest. That's why we put it amongst other things. It's not just us, that's what fourteen countries of the Danube Commission think. Secondly, you mentioned the law itself and the passing of laws by emergency procedure, and you mentioned one date. This date of 31.12.2018 applies only to security protection. So it doesn't apply to other parts of the law. In this regard, it is also very important for us to adopt this law and apply it as soon as possible. What I think you also mentioned, and these are employees of the Directorate itself, I mention once again that one part of them is already working on the river information system, but from specific employees working on these jobs, some of them retire, four of them, two of them are probably coming to the ministry, and there's a possibility that two people can be excess. But we'll just talk about it. In any case, the interest of this law, as I said, is to regulate action, to help certain performances be more effective and that is why this law was found again in front of you. One more thing, when you mentioned a ship entering our territory, etc., whether it should have security or not, whether there will be an obligation for shipowners to have security, so let's say when a Ukrainian ship enters our territory there will be no obligation for Serbia to have security, but Ukraine will ask its shipowner to have that security. As I said, these are certain recommendations already in all other countries, including in our country. As for the fuel part and this example that you have set for Belgrade, there will be a ship on board, so there will be no pump and it is governed by the MUP regulation. As regards various aids, subsidies, etc. There are two things that matter to our shipmen. One is why our ship owners, when I talk about economic operators, deal with business and go under other people's flags or under the flags of other countries, that's primarily because there's a much bigger market than we do, and when we talk about helping boaters in the sense that they're developing this activity, that's something I think we should do, that we should work on, and I'm not sure that we've made a lot of progress in the previous period, and I totally agree with you there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4348	The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4349	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, fellow MPs, I would like to remind at the very beginning that the Republic of Serbia has started implementing a modern standard in the field of water transport from 2010, by adopting the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, which was adopted in 2010, then the Law on Maritime Navigation in 2011 and the Law on State Belonging and the registration of vessels in 2013, and thus we regulated the area of water traffic in accordance with international conventions and other international documents. On the basis of the proposed amending and supplementing laws on navigation and ports on internal waters and reviewing the provisions that are being amended, or supplementing them, we can conclude that these changes are in order to further improve water traffic in the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has favourable economic and geographical characteristics for domestic and water transport and also has interests in stimulating transport on internal waterways. The main waterways in Serbia are the Danube, Sava and Tis rivers with a total of 960km and water system networks within the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem of about 600km, which allows the total waterway area in the Republic of Serbia to be 1,680km, and therefore this type of traffic is as important as all other traffic types, especially from the aspect of the transport of goods and transport of passengers, the development of the economy and tourism. The last amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation were adopted in February 2015, which continued the process of further harmonising our legislation with the practice and transport policy of the EU, which is much more economically and efficiently and environmentally acceptable. After the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, we also adopted the Private Security Act and a brand new law in our legislation, which is the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents. This certainly required some harmonisation when it comes to the Law of Navigation. The adoption of the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents also established the Centre for the Research of Accidents, an independent institution that should carry out investigations in a professional way. This is very important in terms of human security and property because every investigative process can give us an analysis, a clear picture of what they are, and what are possible reactions to certain unforeseen or foreseeable situations, and this further provides an opportunity to improve the protection measures, certainly complement the rules if there is a need for an increase in general security. It is one of the amendments and additions to the applicable Law on navigation that concerns security and Article 13. Proposal for a shipping law supplementing Article 70 of the applicable law by imposing an obligation for domestic shipmen to adopt emergency measures to assist victims and families in the event of inland water accidents. This is certainly in line with this law, but with the provisions of the Government Regulation, you bring in accordance with the Law on the Research of Accidents. The second alignment, that's a lot of words today, is compliance with the Private Security Act. It is proposed that shipowners, port operators and directors should organise security protection by hiring entities licensed to carry out this private security activity. The same provision obliges them to adopt security plans. As far as the SPS is concerned, this solution is acceptable to us. You've made it very clear before and why this is important. One of the newspapers is a different arrangement of technical maintenance of waterways. The fact is that the Directorate had a monopoly when it comes to maintenance and not just maintenance, but planning and self-monitoring of this activity. This method of technical maintenance that is in the bill is by the reputation of the Paradise Sliv, where the organ determines standards and the maintenance of the waterway leaves the economy. This has produced good results and we certainly welcome the fact that the Directorate will remain in charge of these affairs. We believe that budgets will be used more effectively, and businesses will also benefit from some new workers through engagement. Port reform has been launched since 2010. counterpart Nada Lazic listed all the ports in Serbia, and I will only mention the most important ones, which are Belgrade, Panchevo, Smederevo and Prahovo, because they are in the largest proportion connected to the main road and rail traffic hubs, which facilitates the transport of goods and passengers in domestic international traffic. I'm going back to changes and additions from 2015. I want to remind the public, and also colleagues that we then adopted a new classification of ports, prescribed stricter infrastructure conditions for ports of international importance, we introduced port concessions and for the first time introduced a procedure on so-called. transparency of port operations. This has contributed greatly to the development of port operations, but also to the arrangement of the overall transport system in Serbia. Now the bill gives the possibility to introduce more companies, which is rounding up this port reform process, if I may say so, and that is very acceptable from the SPS aspect. The particular question in this law concerns a member of the 47th Law, which refers to the arrangement of chartering yachts. We also had opportunities at the Committee's session today to hear how the rental of a car for recreation is done and to what extent this is actually a black area of business. The vessel owners shall issue their yachts without State control, whether they are domestic State-owned vessels or whether they are vessels on which the flag is situated. The need to edit this area is indisputable because this problem has two aspects, both economic and security. According to data, a large number of recreational vessels that are issued work under the flag of foreign states. The belonging of a vessel to another State implies the tax policy of that State. In translation, this means that, without any compensation on our waterways, action is carried out by those who are not even registered for this activity. On the other hand, an extremely small number of recreational vessels are registered at the Agency for Economic Registers for the performance of this activity, as specific conditions for the registration of vessels are required and certainly vessels require specific checks. We believe that this should be particularly done because the growing number of those who own the vessel in the Republic of Serbia has also increased, and thus the number of those who betray and operate illegally. The owners of the vessel, if I say so, are doing illegal business and unfortunately this raises a number of questions. First, are the owners of their vessels registered as recreational vessels secured and do these owners require clients to have a management permit? Whether to provide all navigation requirements regarding the number of crew members and guaranteeing the tenants, i.e. to their clients that they have met all the conditions for safe navigation. The ministry as a promoter should receive support for this solution because it is indeed time that in this area who can issue vessels we believe that this provision will be a step in solving this problem and certainly contribute to the budget, as well as to citizens. Finally, I would like to conclude that the SPS believes that any change and supplement has come from good intentions and professional people in the country, but also from interested entities, that they represent the need for further harmonisation with communal law and that the product is subject to certain provisions in practice. We will also support this bill and the bill to confirm the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which is on the agenda today, which my colleague will later discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4350	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4351	We are considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The basic text or, to be precise, this law was passed as early as 2010 by "Official Messenger" number 73/10. The first amendment was made in 2012 and was published in Official Messenger number 121/12. The second amendment was made in 2015, it was published in Official Messenger number 18/15, which was in February 2015. It must be said that in the "Official Messenger" number 96/15, the Law on Commercial Broding has also been published, which has been put out of force. 41, 43 and 44. Laws on sailing and ports on inland waters. Today's bill has a total of 55 members, of which 49 members refer to amendments and additions to the existing text of the law, and six members are so-called. Transient or final, explaining. Within these 49 members there are 17 that change for the first time, 27 that have already been changed once and six that have already been changed twice. It is interesting that there are as many as 29 members who were changed in February 2015. These data prove that there is no program in this area, but that changes and additions occur almost machinally or according to current interests. Just to remind you, the rule is that amendments and amendments to the law are approached if, in the meantime, there has been some changes in the legal system, or changes in policy, or it is necessary to approach adaptation to real needs. Since the proposer and this law are the same as in 2012, the reason is not a policy change in this area. The bill states as a reason for the need to bring things into line and the real need, but I must say that this is actually not the real reason why this bill was approached. The explanation clarifies the need to comply with the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents. Just to remind myself, the law was passed on July 23, 2015 and was published in Official Messenger No 66/15 and in terms of, very precisely, the assistance to victims of the accident and their family members of the 14th law was prescribed an emergency aid plan, including transport, accommodation, medical assistance to victims and their families in the event of an accident, brought by the Government. The same law in Article 54(2) requires that the Government adopts a sublegal act within six months, and that deadline expires in January 2016. On July 15th, this year, the government adopted an emergency plan regulation to assist victims and their families in the event of accidents in traffic and published it in Official Messenger No 63/16. By way of derogation from Article 5(3), In the event of an accident in the case of an emergency aid plan, the Government has practically inserted that provision into Article 13. A bill that's on the agenda today. I must remind you that it is entirely unacceptable for the code of sublaw to rise to the level of legal norm in some other law. It's usually a different rule, that a legal norm is the basis for a sublegal norm and a copy of those norms is not necessary. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The situation is similar with Article 19. A bill amending due to the alleged obligation to comply with the Law on Research, and unnecessary reference to the law is being made. So, the whole provision of article 19. The bill is a reference to a special accident research law. That really raises the question, as if the safety inspectors of the voyage had never questioned shipping accidents before. Their primary mission, in the end, was until this Law of Research was passed. In the light of the bill's proposal, there is a reason for amendments and additions, and I say intervention, in Articles 21, 22, 23, 24. The bill cites the need to comply with the Private Security Act. Again to remind ourselves, this law was passed and published in Official Messenger Number 104 as early as 2013, and the law in Article 5 prescribed that the Government lays down closer to the criteria for determining the facilities that are necessarily provided and how to do the job of protection of necessarily secured objects. So, if there was this obligation, it had to be carried out during the amendments and addition of the Law on Navigation and Ports as early as February 2015. But obviously it didn't happen, but there's one more thing. The government has not adopted the regulation yet in accordance with Article 5 of that law. It must also be borne in mind that the amendments to the Private Security Act, which was published in 2015, have changed nothing regarding the security of the facilities, but only with regard to the licensing, jurisdiction and training of persons providing protection. So it's really not clear what's changing and why this law insists on these changes. The third reason for the changes and additions is the rental of foreign yachts, and this change is made in a member who has only one position and which regulates the obligation of a foreign ship to hold two flags on it. Legally and technically, it is totally unacceptable to involve two or even three areas in one member that have no touch point at all. If both interventions on this article had been made as a special, new member, it would have made some sense. It doesn't make any sense like this, and I'm just surprised that it could have gone through a legal-technical draft at the government. I have to draw attention to the motion that it seems incredible to me, if the purpose of this change is to introduce order on EU vessels, then it had to be done starting with Article 4. The law, in turn, to skip members 41 and 43, but certainly 87, 92, 104, 133, 184, 281, and even those members of several laws that say it has been applied since Serbia joined the EU. We also have such members in our bill of law regarding navigation and this matter that is subject to this law. As the fourth reason for the changes and additions, the need to specify the meaning of "statusal changes in port operators" is cited and I must conclude that this is done in a way that practically extends situations in relation to the Business Society Act. I must draw attention to the fact that one law cannot change the essence and contents of another law. You can intervene with one law with several provisions on another regulation or other law, but in the sense of putting out of force a proper provision, but to change the essence and importance of the Business Society Act through amendments to the Law on Navigation and Ports, it is extremely unacceptable. This introduces entirely new criteria concerning the status of companies, it is totally unacceptable and it is simply impossible for this law to do so. On the basis of the status of port operators, the provisions of the Commercial Society Act must be adopted, and any precision of the Law on Navigation and Ports cannot mean an amendment to the rules on companies, in particular it is prohibited to introduce an extension by introducing provisions on changes in ownership, changes in capital, bankruptcy and the like. For these areas, there are completely different regulations. Port operators are not in the ranks of banks, insurance companies, so that the agency or ministry must have insight or give consent or think about capital owners. It's in the jurisdiction, first of all, of companies and it's registered at the Business Society Agency. The fifth reason for the changes and additions are attempts to extend bankruptcy rights, so they wrote in their explanation. The bankruptcy rights, basically, are to replace the conclusion of the privatisation contract after 4 June 2003 by starting the privatisation process. Please, starting the privatisation process is something objective that happens in relation to the one who conducts the privatisation process and does not start at the request of the party. The acquired rights exist at the request of the party. There's no such thing here, and it's completely incomprehensible why it goes into these areas, obviously in 2015, that business isn't done properly. I guess acquired rights are being used, and here acquired rights are being used as an excuse to obtain an extension of the number of exceptions and rights acquired, and quite unnecessaryly in the same basket with privatisation is also the right to property based on investments that have never been disputed. Please, the most protected right of property is the most protected right of investment. Whoever invested in something can count on having property rights over these things. That fate is also port infrastructure. If there's evidence that someone built a port infrastructure, then of course they have property on the basis of the investment. I think it is unnecessary for this law to enter into something that regulates the Law on Planning and Construction, that it is unnecessary to enter into something that regulates the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Laws. Obviously, there is some reason why this intervention is taking place, and I get the impression that 2015 did not finish a quality task that had to be completed. For this proposal, it also reportedly contains provisions on amendments and additions that are essentially not necessary. In fact, we need a whole new law, because if we look at this law in our entire package, then we have five proposals, or five members in the draft law, where technical mistakes are corrected, and in some places technical errors are corrected against the basic principle, who can do more and less. It's just incomprehensible what's going on. It is interesting that the fees paid by shipowners are also intruded by a fully clear State aid control law applicable since 2010, and in the meantime there is no need to change anything, especially when it comes to ports and ports. It is imposed on the Agency to treat all reductions, fees as state aid of small value. That's illusory. By reducing the compensation as a public income, shipowners and do not obtain a more favourable position on the market, and thus distorts competition on the market, the fee paid is public income, in appropriate cases they have the right to an adequate fee. Until now, this has not been reported, within the meaning of the State Aid Control Act, had no treatment of small aid, and here even the obligation to run it is completely unnecessary, it all stemmed from a completely poor interpretation of the law and regulation that regulates this matter, the State Aid Rules Regulation. It is totally incomprehensible to a 50% reduction in the fee that is recognised for the unloading of ore and steel, it is no longer valid. Well, how come right now when the Chinese bought this one of our ironworks, that discount that existed so far is no longer valid. Of course, we've filed 30 amendments to this bill. We will try to explain each of these amendments in the debate. We find it completely unnecessary what has been done, but we have managed to locate where the problems are and why we have problems in shipping, that is, in the application of this Law on Navigation and Ports. I have to say that everything indicates that the problem is at the Department of Traffic. It is primarily in the regional and administrative organizations that exist there and I need to correct those who spoke before me, the Waterway Directorate is a administrative organisation not a business society. So that the possibility of these technical maintenance jobs being subject to a legally prescribed procedure for other legal persons who have been trained and licensed and have the possibility to do so is not a novelty, this has been done so far. However, it is completely incomprehensible for us to get control jobs thrown out of the Waterways Directorate. It's about us completely unacceptable. I must draw your attention to the fact that a large number of persons working in the Ministry of Navigation and the like, because this system within the Ministry of the Port Captain's Office is also there, as well, the Administration for the Determination of the Capability of Ships for Navigation, the Water Roads Directorate, the Port Management Agency, and also authorised legal persons to maintain state waterways, etc. I have to draw attention to you, that there is a negative staff selection as regards the SRS, starting with Zoran Gvozdenovic, and that Kovacevic, and even there are jeeps with double tanks, there is a whole list of names of people who have maximum privatised. I do not dispute that every minister has the right to form a cabinet, to form a team that will satisfy the minister's assessment of the need, to organise the job best, but here we also have Leposava Sojic, and by Lucija Devic, not to tell you these personal biographys, what everyone does there, how it works, how it works. That's what the paper said, where the registers are falsified, where some of the certificates are awarded, the boat's diplomas, etc. It's a subject of police research long ago and it's become a public matter long ago, and it's been written and you'll be sure to keep writing what's going on in certain sectors within this ministry. I think the main problem of a bad bill and a bad condition is the staff incapacitation of the ministry with all regional and administrative organisations to meet and to prepare the law as best possible and to respect the provisions of the law as best possible and to take care of this area. I need to draw attention to the fact that in the existing regulations that regulate this matter we have some kind of discrimination. Here they stretch, let's say, all that has the EU flag, and others that participate in this business or that sail across the Danube and Sava are kind of being discriminated against. There are several such members. There are still many members who are not covered by the amendment proposal, so we couldn't intervene with the amendment, but they are certainly the subject of our interest, and they also had to come under the influence of these changes and changes. I say we've submitted 30 amendments. All amendments have been submitted with a basic objective of improving this text. The text of the bill is very bad according to our criteria. The real needs are not touched by this proposal for changes and additions. We also have the fact that certain regional authorities and individual organisations have not essentially lived in the way prescribed by law, and above all I mean this agency that takes care of ports. I am simply afraid of this kind of confusion that has arisen in this law, not only these changes and additions, but practically since 2015 where property problems and onion ownership can occur. This can also produce problems with port performance, it can produce other problems, and the public is already aware of all the appetites there are when it comes to ports. Luke is not a private matter, that we understand and the ports are well of public importance and with the right of the state there should be maximum input and maximum regulation, because there everything and everything can happen, besides, seafaring and shipping always follow some bad phenomena and a really constant struggle between state and port operators and shipowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4352	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4353	I'll be very brief, since you mentioned two things that aren't true several times. One is that there are members of the laws that have delayed application until they join the EU, that is not true. The second is that the work of supervision is given to another, certainly the work of overseeing the directorship. What we definitely want is the performance of maintenance to be more efficient and better. Since you have mentioned several times that you have given very many amendments very constructively, as you have said, to fix the law, simply, to meet the MPs that these are amendments from article 1 to the last -- deleted, deleted, deleted, and I am very sorry that I couldn't and that I don't have the opportunity to see that constructiveity in action. As for the Ministry of Transport, Construction, Infrastructure, it's open, you can come in, look for any information about anyone in this ministry, you'll get everything. You can come and see. After all, you know very well, you probably know, how cabinets are formed, you were also Minister of Trade at another time. I hope that time doesn't happen again. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4354	Based on what, Mr. Krassic? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: She incorrectly interpreted you. Is she incorrectly interpreting you? All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4355	Well, I was very precise at first saying that this law has 55 members, and that we have submitted only 30 amendments, so we are not from first to last, what you said. Secondly, for each amendment, there is an explanation of what we have proposed, but when you see the amendments, you will see that there is an amendment that we are correcting some other things that you are not, as a proposer, not you, but who is the Proposer, has not included the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements. So not of the 55 amendments, not all amendments are "expunged", but only 30 amendments, and there are those that are not "wipes" within the 30 amendments, but are changing something in your proposal. So, when you see it, then you'll see how wrong you are in this finding that you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4356	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4357	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, vice-president of the Republic of Serbia with associates, is the fact that today we are discussing the Law on Navigation and Ports, which was adopted in 2010, and the amendments and additions for the third time, is one irrefutable proof for me that the state of Serbia is harmonising its legislation with the EU, and that the current law shows problems and things to be addressed. The fact that for this law and for most of the other laws that we are discussing here in this high house, when you are the legislator, I appreciate that you have recently made sublaws, because you have realized that the application of every law is important and depends on sublegal acts, as well as the fact that this law has passed a public debate is very important. In the debate on changes and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports in 2015, you said that Serbia has only an uptake of 4.7% of water traffic, that our traffic is several times smaller than developed European countries and that, among other things, it is one of the causes and reasons why our infrastructure is outdated for more than 30 years. I therefore use this debate to ask you what the debate on the laws in this area from February last year to today has been done, although I believe that the period of some year and a half is relatively short for some major changes. The two basic objectives of this law, among other things, which I would single out, is to specify the jurisdiction of the Waterway Directorate and the Management Agency, as well as the fight against the gray economy. The fact that, in the proposal for this law, companies providing today's yacht rental services and recreational vessels will have to be taxpayers is certainly one significant contribution to the proposal for this law in the fight against the gray economy. I cannot take the opportunity not to present some of the following information in my debate, that there are between 150 and 180 restaurants and rafts in Belgrade, about 2,000 water houses officially reported as being 1,000. The number of vessels is moving between seven and eight thousand, and four thousand of these vessels have been reported. My question to you is, how do we get the exact data in this area? I wish we could take advantage of some of the next debate and get some very precise data out. I think one of the good indicators is electronic administration, or electronic data, but I'd like to hear, of course, your opinion as well. Also, Article 11 of this law defines mobile storage facilities related to all types of pollution for ships, and I think it is extremely important for them to urgently define places that would represent reception stations for ship's waste in accordance with international regulations, above all, in line with the latest recommendations of the Danube Commission. Of course, ports are ideal points of integration of three modes of traffic - road, rail and water and that modern times dictate a completely new way of operating the ports. The provision of this law requiring the granting of a new authorisation for the performance of port operations is extremely important. In this way, it is ensured that ports are no longer bought for land, but primarily for their activity. At the very end, I would also have a few questions about this law, or what about the plan to build an international port near the “Michilo Pupun” bridge on the left bank of the Danube, as well as the international port in Zemun and in Grocko? Also, over the next ten years, Serbia plans to invest 290m euros when it comes to Corridor 7, and over the next few years, the EU plans to invest 26 billion euros in nine water corridors. My question for you is - how much will we be able to compete with projects in this area? I see the harmonisation of legislation in this area as a significant contribution. New Serbia's MPs will support changes and additions to this law, as they introduce order, improve citizens' environmental awareness. The amendments and additions of this law bring us closer to the regulated countries in this area and create conditions for the use of the potential we also have in this area. As far as the draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea is concerned, I believe that this agreement is in fact the continuation of the already signed 1990 Agreement, but it was an agreement signed between a previous state and the Republic of Korea, and today it is a modern agreement that is in line with modern trends in international civil aviation. I think this agreement is a solid foundation for future successful co-operation between the two countries, but for air carriers of the Contracting States, so, for other entities in the overall economic movements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Korea. The agreement also presents an additional chance for Er Serbia, as well as the possibility of increased interest of Korean businessmen in traffic with our business entities. So, in the voting day, we will also support this agreement and amendments to the Law on navigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4358	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4359	Dear Members, thank you for your comments. Answer a few questions you asked, one concerns a new port in Belgrade. We are in the process, in 2017 project technical documentation will be done. The construction of the port cannot be expected before the end of 2018, since we will be dealing with the choice of concessionaires first. When we talk about EU funds that are important to us for these critical sectors that I mentioned, 15m euros, plus three, 18m euros for the ship's translator is expected about 40% of the value, therefore, another 10m euros. On the question of the Zemun passenger port, you probably know that in 2015 there was a tender for the selection of operators. That tender didn't work. Now a new tender is being prepared, or prepared by the Agency, and we expect to see that tender within a month. What is important is this very investment related to Luka Belgrade, which is very important precisely because of the connection and other types of traffic. I think that's enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4360	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4361	Mr. Chairman, MPs, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome the Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure with its associates and also to declare my regret that it has been announced and is not the present director of the Civil Traffic Directorate, Mrs. Mirjana Chisarov. This Internal Waters Act was adopted in February 2015 and these amendments and additions relate to the law. The February 2015 law is a very large law and has 291 members and is done on 120 pages. In order to fully understand these changes and the additions offered now for our adoption, this law had first to be studied well. He developed major parts related to internal waters, domestic water traffic and consisted of several key continents. Conditions and means of safe sailing on internal waters were processed, waterways and navigation were then processed, all about vessels and their navigation skills, as well as members of crew law, search, rescue, ports and ports, surveillance and other issues. This law is given on 40 pages a total of additions and amendments to this new proposal that is before us. It also needs to be added that, together with this proposal for complementarity and amendment, a strategy for the development of the water transport of the Republic of Serbia adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in August 2014 and which is reliant and derived from the 2016 Law and will be an integral part of the strategy following the adoption of amendments and additions. The implementation of this law by the Ministry will be entrusted to the Waterways Directorate, the Port Management Agency, the Navigation Ships Authority, which, by the way, has 30 employees and the Navigation Safety Inspectorate, the normal inspection is that important factor. The key things that have changed since 2015, at least as we have managed to look at them, are that these changes, which have been made in 2012, 2015, and even now, are conditioned by our approximation and compliance with European standards, and that is, on the other hand, very extensively processed and quite detailed. The basic things that change in relation to the 2015 Law are about to change the role of the Waterway Directorate, which is quite explained in the earlier discussion. I, as a man who deals with a similar activity, can only add that I understand, and that is quite technically normal, that investment building and supervision of investment building cannot be under the same roof and must be organisationally independent of each other, and that is quite fine, and that change I welcome, because design, investment construction and supervision should not go together, because it creates any other problems that people who deal with technology quite well understand. Also, it has already been said, changes allow for increased levels of safety on waterways and an increase in safety levels, that licensed persons can be hired further for security protection and, too, an effort has been made to regulate the chartering of vessels a little more legally in order to avoid the abuses that are taking place. That's about, with everything that's been said so far, the main thing that consists of these amendments that are proposed in the law. Also, it has already been said that the Directorate will play a more concrete role, a slightly different role. That's a lot to talk about. I'm having a discussion, but I'm gonna skip it so we don't waste much time. It's about a little bit lower than what's contained in these applications. What's very important, too? The law and this Strategy are now the main documents on which the Water Traffic Development Strategy should be developed in the Republic of Serbia. What's the state of water traffic? What kind of traffic are the waterways? What's the state of the ports with the infrastructure? What is the condition of the water facilities, or ships? The situation in the Republic of Serbia is in very poor condition. In 2012, 2013 the previous government quite precisely defined the situation that characterized the situation in this area, so it was estimated that it was necessary to bring into some normal state of investment of 300m euros to bring these three key elements to a state of waterway, in ports and with ships into some normal state. It is even foreseen that most of these investment funds are invested in the Danube, then a lot of it in projects for the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, then on the Sava and Tis. Normally, there's a little talk here about the state of the Dunav-Tisa-Dunav system. I'll just say that it is in the worst state of all these water resources Serbia has. Also, it was estimated that the investment ratio in this water economy was extremely low and that its ratio of $10 investment dollars, for example, was only one dollar invested in this part of traffic. At that time, it was registered to have about 900 waterways, and only 1/3 of which can meet the standards so that it can sail normally through waterways. The age of the fleet has been estimated at over 40 years, not to use the term, that the grate of the fleet is old iron, but it's roughly in that state. So he's looking for an extremely high level of investment and a high speed. Also, the alarming state of the port infrastructure is, and I can now count a lot. I pulled out of that assessment the government made that year 2012, and she did it well. I say hello, because normally every time you get to work, you first have to get a good diagnosis of things so you can prescribe good therapy afterwards. After that, I say, in August 2014, a strategy was made to re-enact in 2015 the amendments to this 2012 law, which shows that our approach to Europe has raised regulation requirements in this area where the Danube, like Corridor Seven, is so called the "Div. " The Danube Corridor has received an exceptional importance for Serbia. After that, we have what is now said before us of these amendments to the law, which will be adopted in October 2016, which again shows that the effort appears to be to find a way to provide the resources needed to regulate this. It's about one short feature of the condition. So we have a law, a strategy, we have a waterway condition that needs to be solved anyway. Now there's a little bit to say about potential. The potential of these Serbian waterways, Serbia's waterways, is remarkable. If we see what's going on in the surrounding countries, we must regret to note that all these potentials have been used much more than we have. I have to say here, and that's why I've given this retrospective of what we have, one big skeptic that we're in a situation where we need to realize such significant infrastructure projects that simply, it seems to me, this government doesn't have the capacity to implement them. Why do I say that? Because since 2012, last week, Mr. Finance Minister Vujovic told us that the growth of public debt was $9.3 billion from 2012 to today. In a few days, we're going to adopt our duties, increase by about two million and 800, respectively, a million and $286 million. That'll go up to over $10.5 billion. A simple question, and so highly expressed in investment requirements, not only in water traffic, we talk about air traffic, and travel infrastructure, that I'm not talking about economics, with so many demands, it's very difficult to provide funds. In other words, that amount of debt to me is not properly directed at vital infrastructure facilities. What's your current condition? If we look at the facilities of the economy, we had a discussion last week about Smederev where we said that in just two years the losses in Smederev were made at $286 million. I said in this assembly that the losses in RTB Bor were made out of $230 million. That's $506 million in these two key businesses alone. We can't destroy the economy and borrow and raise our duties. That's absolutely impossible. The only real source of funding recovery, debt is economics. So, I welcome the effort, the water industry, the infrastructure, the ports, to rise, but I'm expressing the skepticism that it won't be possible to do so, because the simple strategy applied by this government regarding the spending of the funds we owe me seems to me not to be the best done. To conclude this part, this government in my opinion did not have the capacity to successfully manage the vital economy and infrastructure projects. Such projects do not serve their purpose but are the basis for high-level corruption, driving the country into uncontrolled public debt growth and bankruptcy. They lead into a debt slavery where there is no way out. That's why I'm skeptical. To move to another law regarding the Air Traffic Agreement Confirmation Act between Serbia and Korea. There is not much discussion, Serbia's very clear goals are that Serbia's need to introduce itself to South Korea, that more in South Korea, which is a far-reaching country, knows more to attract potential investors and normal tourists. As it is important to recognize the interest of Korea, which is a strong business country, that it can here, as it has begun, make investments, not only sell its products here, but also have its own business facilities. That's about the key to this agreement. I don't want much about it. Again, as with the previous law, I am now asking the question – who will take care of the application of this agreement? Who cares about applying all the other agreements? What part of the ministry does this do? Normally, it is the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I've been doing some research on the Civil Aviation Directorate, and I'm saying I'm sorry Mrs. Mirjana Chismarov isn't here. I've seen the number of workers working at the Civil Air Force rise a lot. In last year's report, we had 135 employees. By my criteria, by looking at the structure, I have it here, but I don't have time, what's going on in that directorate, with all due respect to the importance of the Directorate, I'd say it's a little too large. I will not speak on purpose and criticise the amount of expenditure that goes towards employee earnings and income fees, which are not small and are not against profit, but rather against the fact that there is no party employment in the Civil Aviation Directorate and in all other directorates, agencies, administrations and other government offices, so to speak. We personally believe that a very significant reduction of funds can be made. I know that I will answer that the Directorate does not receive salaries from the budget but from some other funds, but I know that absolutely in one Serbia it is not appropriate for one director to have 450,000 salaries. God forbid there are a million, it's not a problem, but it should be ensured that air traffic is exceptional, that "Er Serbia" does not make losses, as the minister said in her opening statement, that air traffic in Serbia rises to the level of rationalisation of the number, because we know that nearly 800m euros per year go to these administrations, agencies and everything else. We are absolutely certain that this can be reduced and that these funds go into the budget. We can't have on one side a constant growth of our duties, a collapse of our economy, a terrible problem we're talking about, a water economy, and agencies that aren't visible, because on our boards we've had an analysis of the work by the agencies and we see that around there the wages are good, I'm saying I'm not against it, but I'm against there being a copy-paisy in the reports from year to year, that party staffs are being pushed and spending funds are not being controlled. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4362	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4363	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have been exhaustingly debated today. There were interesting remarks, suggestions, suggestions, and that's what's good. That's what's good. What's not very good is that you slowly get the habit of simply making the loudest noises coming from those who obviously didn't even read or didn't understand it very well, so one of them was yelling here about some categories that aren't even the subject of this law, although he's doing better when he's off the balcony, by the way, but good. The second again criticised some segments of the economy that had nothing to do with this law, the water industry, etc. But, well, that's something that speaks of them. It's something that belongs to their political style and I basically have nothing against it, I wouldn't waste my time on it. So, today, very important legislation proposals, in particular the Bill on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, and simply, this Bill, in the words of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants to achieve several very important, clearly set objectives that are necessary to allow for the rapid development of water traffic. About this importance, the Minister said in the opening statement, and I would say again, that 9.6 million tonnes of the carrying burden is on the issue at the annual level, and I think it says enough about the importance of water transport at all. As I said, the rapid development of water traffic, the increased involvement of the private sector in this branch of traffic, as well as the taking of organised and synchronised measures against both the gray economy and the anti-piracy, theft and other illegal activities that take place on rivers. Finally, this bill completes the legislative reform of the port management system launched in 2010 and continues with last year's adoption, amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. In relation to the first goal, we are actually achieving a solution to the draft law which mentions the Waterway Directorate today in a debate which is currently the only one authorised in Serbia to carry out the tasks of technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways, i.e. prescribed waterway gauges, so we are abolishing this kind of monopoly, let me say, position. This solution is the result of careful analysis of the results of the work of this Directorate in its domain. Then, the comparative analyses of systems that are applied in relation to this area in other countries, but also the need to open up the possibility of private sector engagement in all segments, provided that this does not affect the fulfilment of our country's international obligations. In this connection, it should be pointed out that the Waterway Directorate has not had enough financial resources for more than a decade to carry out these operations, to bag the waterway, and that the fleet of ships, which has the directorate, is extremely old. We heard here that it was almost 40 years of age of ships, as well as that as a result of the projects achieved, such as the introduction of river information systems, i.e. services, whose directorship is a provider, will in the next period insist on changing the structure and number of employees in the directorship itself. In particular, it should be pointed out here that similar problems have arisen in this area, i.e. other countries in Europe, for example. Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium and many other countries. Better transparency of the list of transactions covered by the concept of technical maintenance of waterways, regulation of the possibility of certain operations from the Department of Waterways to leave to business companies, more detailed arrangements on how to finance operations, technical maintenance and conditions that must be met by these companies, the reduction of the number, therefore, of sublegal acts that are adopted under this law and as a very important regulation, that the transport of persons by yachts, or by boat for recreation in internal waters, may be carried out on the basis of rental with compensation only if the vessel is a domestic state belonging, i.e. in the possession of the domestic, both natural, so-called persons registered for that activity, i.e. So-called chartering, then regulation that the directorate, or port operator, or shipowner must organise safety protection in order to protect the property of the person, the business of the facility itself, etc. This will be done by contracting entities that have a license to act in private security, so these are some of the objectives that this law has to achieve and that will be the positive effects that this law will achieve. When it comes to the second objective, and I think it's one of the most important segments and perhaps most important, and as the minister said, I think it's the key question she asked in the opening part, which is what the state wants with ports, what we want from port operations, in what way to develop port activity in Serbia. Compared to ports, we are ahead of perhaps the last but decisive step towards completing the legislative reform of the port aimed at equating the legal position of all those companies already operating on the market and which, on different grounds, began to carry out port's work by 2010 and the entry into force of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The first phase of the reform of national legislation focused on large international ports, i.e. port operators, who through the process of property transformation and privatisation acquired the right to carry out this work. The adoption of the 2010 Law on Navigation and Ports began the process of correcting all the failures of implemented port privatisations, with the satisfaction of today to realize that the port land in all ports is preserved and that this is what is very important and remains in the public ownership of RS, and that all major port operators have entered the public port management system, which was also one of the EU's requirements. Following compliance with all the conditions laid down by law, these operators have been granted port operations, with procedures for declaring port areas, e.g. in a significant number of ports and ports. New Sad, Prahovo, Smederevo, Kostolac, Lower Miholjac, Zemun etc. By the end of the year, port areas are expected to be declared in the ports of Sainta, Apatin and Bačka Palanca, while the process of declaring the remaining port areas will be completed by the end of 2017. This is an important result if there are discrepancies and obsolescence of spatial documents of a number of local self-governments with which port areas must be harmonised. Significant newspapers that have been introduced into the port management system through the latest amendments and additions of the 2015 law today show the first results. So today we have the interest of large world and European port operators in awarding port concessions or other public-private partnership models. for a new port in Belgrade or port in Apatino. Also, the privatisation process for the port operators of Novi Sad is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and laws of this country to our satisfaction, so the port land and port infrastructure will remain in public property, while the subject of privatisation will be only the port business. After carrying out the privatisation, the new owner will be required to obtain a new authorisation for the performance of port operations, which will define the conditions for the use of port land and port infrastructure, so that we will also have full application in this port, to say the Land Lordship port management system introduced by the Law on Navigation and Ports, which today is dominant in the world and in Europe. If I can be free to say it's a model that we and this bill tend to. I wouldn't repeat everything that's already been pointed out and said several times today. I wouldn't try to paraphrase the minister. I would now not personally deal with the situation in Serbia's ports, but rather end my discussion in this place, and if there is any further need in the course of the discussion as well as in the debate in particular, we would be happy to touch these topics, with a note, of course, that the SNS will support all these proposed solutions. I call on us to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4364	Thank you. Since no more of the authorised representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work on the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4365	The Honored Chairman, a respected lady minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, we are talking today about two draft laws in the context of the first joint single search. The first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland Navigation, which our authorised representative, i.e. colleague Stefana Miladanovic, spoke very closely. The second law is the Law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which I will talk about a little bit. As the Republic of Korea and Serbia successfully co-operate in many fields, including politics, economy, culture, I would take this opportunity to remind myself of the history, above all, of Serbia's diplomatic relations with the Republic of Korea and of the current forms of co-operation of our two countries. Official diplomatic relations between the Republic of Korea and Serbia, i.e. at the time they started, were established at the end of 1989, and the country's embassies were established in February 1990. In 2014, Serbia and Korea celebrated 25 years since establishing diplomatic relations. The country's extremely good co-operation is also saying that during the recent migrant crisis, Korea actively helped Serbia, which was one of the most burdened countries on the Western-Balkan route, with a large inflow of migrants, who have been with us for longer because of the inability to move on. The Korean Embassy then supported Serbia's significant million-dollar financial assistance, as well as the donation of a number of ambulances. Diplomatic relations between Korea and Serbia are constantly strengthening through mutual visits by senior high-level officials. This form of co-operation was intense in the past and this year, when more visits were made by representatives of both the executive and other countries. When it comes to the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of air traffic, it should be recalled that it was first signed between the Federal Executive Council of the then-SFRJ and the Government of the Republic of Korea in late 1990 and ratified in mid- 1991. So the agreement we are talking about today practically replaces the first agreement, i.e. it represents the continuity of co-operation between the two countries. Otherwise, the agreement that we need to ratify at this time is the fifth in line with the Republic of Korea, which confirms that this co-operation is both necessary and fruitful. The signing of an air traffic agreement for both countries is very important. It should monitor the country's growing economic, or economic co-operation. According to the Korean International Trade Association, in 2015 the Republic of Korea exported to the Republic of Serbia $73m worth of goods, when I say goods, then I primarily think of cars, monitors and other items, while the Republic of Korea imported from Serbia $115m worth of goods and, above all, about food products and car parts. The trade between our two countries has increased over the past few years, with Serbia in particular being a larger exporter. That the Republic of Korea is very interested in economic co-operation with Serbia, also confirms that the Korean Agency for the Promotion of Trade and Investments, Kotra, has achieved its representation in Belgrade with the aim of intensifying trade co-operation between Serbian and Korean companies. Korean companies started investing in Serbia according to data from the Korean side, and investments amounted to $12.6m in 2015, and Korean companies operating in Serbia are "Jura" and "Cegrem" at the moment. There is also talk of a tourist exchange between Korea and Serbia, and it is gaining importance, with several more Korean tourists visiting Serbia. A visa-free regime contributes to this, under which no visa is required for citizens of the two countries for 90 days. Serbia and Korea's cultural co-operation is not negligible, with the most involved embassies and diplomatic representatives in this form. In particular, as a form of co-operation between the two countries, it would highlight the co-operation of parliamentary groups of friendships, which were formed in parliaments, both Serbia and Korea. The delegations of the Korean-Serbian parliamentary group of friendships visited our parliament twice in 2009 and 2014, and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Parliamentary Friendship Group with Korea was formed in 2013. In Serbia, there is also a company of Korean-Serbian friendship, which is based in Cačka, at the moment. All these facts are in favour of establishing even better links between the two countries in the area of air traffic, which is due to the distance of our two countries as a dominant form of transport of people and goods. The air traffic agreement between the RS government and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Korea was signed on 24 February 2016 by Professor Zoran Mihalovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea in the Republic of Serbia Lido Hun. Parliament should ratify this agreement, i.e. confirm. It is essentially a long-term legal basis for further improving the two countries' overall relations in all areas of co-operation. As we can conclude from the elements of this agreement, a modern agreement is in line with modern standards and trends in international civil aviation. This agreement very precisely and in detail regulates relations in the area of air traffic between RS and the RC, with respect and compliance with high international air standards, above all. A little more on the content of the agreement will be spoken by my colleague, Dr Danica Bukvic, and I would like to say in the end that, for all of the above reasons, the SPS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4366	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4367	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought a little with my colleague, the farmer in an attempt to debate on this subject, but since he's not here, and I know that after the privatisation of DIN and DIV, and I know that after the privatisation of DIN and DIV, as our people say, he clung $12 million and he had a serious intention to buy a yacht, I know from whom, I thought that I was seriously discussing this subject, believing, in accordance with Article 10, it seems to me, the minister is there, she knows that we are talking about these domestic yachts, because I believe that he was a patriot and that, unlike the other tycoons he was working with, with whom he took the money, so that he would register the yacht that our country and thus pay some tax here. However, this is problematic, given that, according to the tax administration's documentation, only over the last two years, as the president of the Empress company, has silenced 23m dinars, with interest rates of over 30m. Since it is not there, it would be wrong to spread the subject and talk about breach of tax regulations, i.e. evasion, which, behold, these others, which is a little bit more, and as of that group, have never been enough. This has always been a little bit, and they've never had enough, so this is what I'm closing this discussion with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4368	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4369	First of all, I am sorry that just those who have criticized during the previous session are not talking about anything more precisely what I'm talking about today. But here, before I move on to the essence of my presentation, I must say that this is exactly what the prime minister was talking about, which is that Serbia on the "Ding Business" list of the World Bank from 54 places went to 47 places, and that is one fantastic piece of information that I can happily say at this point, because it is presented as the latest news, so the pleasure is really common. As far as the law is concerned, first of all, the bill and amendments to the Law on Navigation, ports on internal waters, I see above all as the idea of a resolution ministry that this law, therefore, complies with the Law on Planning and Construction on the one hand, on the other hand with the Law on Private Security, and also with the Law on the investigation of accidents in air and water transport, and not only to bring it into line, but I would say that the tendency is that all those legal solutions which were insufficiently good documents and that those legal solutions that in certain situations really did not exist, be found and placed and presented by this law. So, let's get to it. I believe that the proposed amendment of Article 21, or 199, of the existing law, regulates the protection of property by internal water traffic. I really don't know what this is about, today we've been listening to literally criticism without any argument and without any basis based on the truth, but we've been presenting some flat-rate sentences and statements, I'd say half-truths and misinformation, about this particular article that I'm talking about. In this way, I personally believe that shipping companies and ports, not only will they be obliged to organise this security protection, but in this way, primarily by hiring licensed entities to carry out private security activities, will primarily prevent theft and prevent trafficking of people, as well as piracy and crime. That's who's gonna be on those public calls, so of course all those who are licensed in this country will be here. So anyone who meets the requirements of private security, of course, can and should do the job. Today, a significant problem regarding boat rental has been recorded. Today, it is possible to rent a vessel that is not registered in any of the domestic registers of the vessel, but is registered abroad. What's the big deal? Well, get lost first of all. Therefore, no tax is collected, no income, not only on the basis of payment of taxes directly, but no income is made on the basis of contributions to the earnings of the persons to work, so to be employed by this activity. In this regard, these companies will be obliged to pay taxes on the use of a motor-powered yacht whose amount, as far as I know, and I have asked myself, ranges from 62,670 dinars to 250,730 dinars, which, you will agree, is not a small sum. The proposed amendments to the law, therefore, this part is changing and I think for the first time there is order in this area in this way. What particularly intrigued me is how countries in the environment solved this problem. Well, the surrounding countries have solved it exactly this way, protecting their shipmen. What's so controversial about that? Unless you literally want to search for hair in an egg or look for a problem without a problem. The essence of the amendment of this article is the practical regulation of shipowners' activity, i.e. renting motor yachts, and in addition as one effect of amending the law, I see only increased revenue in the budget. Article 27. Article 27, first of all, I see as the wish of the motionary, so the restoring ministry to bring this law into line with the Law on Planning and Construction. Namely, what it's about. Here in Article 213, the existing law, paragraphs 2 and 3, where the law in the sense of prescribing that the ports for boarding and landing passengers are elements of the port infrastructure, therefore, differs because the law so far recognized as a port counterstructure. The differences are, above all, in people who understand this problem, more than evident. In fact, the superstructure is used for the landing of cargo, not passengers, and therefore the change and change of this term is more than justifiable. Thus, not only does it comply with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, but the port elements are described in a more precise way, because the term, therefore, is used for buildings rather than for passengers to board and board. In line with the European solution in this area, the proposal is to supplement Article 70 with Article 13 of the bill. Here is the essence of effective implementation of search and rescue and namely, domestic shipmen will have to bring their own emergency aid plans to victims, their families, including transport, accommodation and medical assistance, etc. I think these plans are a necessary act to have, not just because of the law, but because of a valid shipowner organisation in these emergency situations, circumstances that we don't want to happen first, but definitely will be on our waters. In general, I believe that amendments to the law not only make sense, but that it will improve traffic and improve activity in this area definitely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4370	The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4371	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, the topic for Serbia's economic development is very important, because one of my reasons for real and real very low levels of economic development and the inability of all of us in Serbia to find an adequate model of economic development is the lack of development of river traffic. There are almost no serious and large economies in Europe, nor those that are not so developed, and on an extremely high level there is no traffic on river waterways or inland waters. We have great potential all the time and we can't find a good way to develop that potential. I have an understanding of the legal solutions that are still valid, which have centralized the full function that the Port Management Agency normally has under this law, the function of the port administration, but I think it's time for a serious step in decentralisation. These large and developed systems and large and developed economies, which are, among other things, based on them, are decentralised. I think it's time for you to come out with a proposal for a new law, if not for you, I think you'll meet with our new law very soon. As in many other areas of not only economic but overall public life, I am deeply convinced, the party in which I am, together for Serbia, that unless we have a clear concept of decentralisation, if we do not have the political will to implement it, and in fact decentralisation is essentially an opening opportunity for people to take decisions in public life, we will not be able to get enough energy for economic overall social development. In particular here, I am sure that the establishment of local port management units, which has the function of local port administrations, would greatly improve the system and open up the possibility that we could have stronger instruments to develop this extraordinary potential. I know this, because in the city where I live, in Šapec, there are very serious plans to develop both cargo and passenger traffic. There are very serious investors who have appeared in the last two years, both from the Czech Republic, both from Canada, China and of course that the Port Management Agency is not a circumvention point which is the one that has to open the space for these investors to find a way to invest their money and how to get better infrastructure, traffic and better opportunities for anyone who deals with business in Serbia because reducing costs through this kind of transport is actually one of the ways that we can come up with strong economic development. I'd like to do a little dyspression. One of the major companies or very significant companies has now applied for the construction of a highway between Ruma and Šapco and with a clear proposal and the idea of concession. Of course, it's not about this part of the agenda, but the minister is here to take advantage of the opportunity. And you have Mrs. Mihajlovic standing in your ministry for a long time. I hear you've sent it to the Prime Minister, so you can't give an answer, are you interested in someone doing the highway or not? The same thing will be with the ports. So at least three investors at this point we have who are interested in using the instruments that this law has and will receive, invest their capital to build a port in Šapco. This thing is also important for Serbia's regional policy. The Glinica mine in Zvornik is one of the most important economic resources, not only in Republika Srpska and BiH, but also in the Balkans as well. Unless there is a possibility for strong water transport, and I don't see how in any other place it can be done except at the Sabbath port with the adequate resolution of the railway link between Zvornik and Sapac, I think we are taking ourselves away from the possibility of a very large and strong economic development in this part of Serbia, Republika Srpska, BiH and the whole of our region. What I think is the thing that we're going to talk about when the debate comes here in particular, but I'm holding it important for a principle debate at this point, is that the deadline for drawing up a proposal for a concession act on the one hand, on the other hand, the deadline for the government to decide on a proposal for this concession act, as far as I can see, is not defined by this legal solution. As those who are referred to this question and know, and it is good that the general public has a clear idea of all this, this kind of business requires very big money. Those with tens of millions of euros or sums that are bigger than that come to Serbia with the intention of investing that money in this job must have a clear idea of what awaits them in the procedure in which they enter, in which the state decides. That's why I think you need to correct these shortcomings. At the very end, I'll repeat what I think is essential. It's important that we step out as a state of decentralisation in this area. I have no objection to this government coming out with a proposal for such solutions, if not, we will file them in this House. It is important that we all have a clear idea together of how much we lose as a nation, as a state, as a national economy, because we are not more effective at attracting investors into this kind of work and how necessary it is to have strong economic growth, not 2%, 2.5% or 3% a year, but I am sure that with some other important infrastructure things, the development of ports and the development of river traffic is a necessary prerequisite for us to enter growth rates that are over 5% and are approaching 10%, and I believe that Serbia is capable of that. It's necessary for the government to do its part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4372	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4373	Your Honor, you're absolutely right that we should know who's doing what, but we should also have an idea of what investors are waiting for when they come to Serbia. What was announced half an hour ago is that Serbia in the top ten countries of the world is on a duking business list by the number of reforms, the speed of reforms it has implemented. This means – Serbia ranks 47th in the overall ranking, but bears the mark of the top ten countries in the world, seen 190 countries. In two years, Serbia has crossed 150 countries into issuing construction permits, paying taxes and registering property. But let's go back to the Shabbac now and the topics that you specifically raised. I'll start centralised first, or decentralisation. I will only tell you, first of all, because of the public, which is that in 2010, the existence of the Port Agency and the adviser of the town of Šapca is a man who participated in the definition of members of that law. And he stood up for that kind of centralization. So maybe first you can make a deal with him, ask him what the reason was. The second thing, when you talk about Capco, first of all, is that we've predicted, among other things, that Shabac is an international port, that means far from this country having no concept and doesn't know where he's going, especially when it comes to port operations. Secondly, the private investor you mention was in the ministry, along with the mayor of Sapca, and it would be very good if a private investor from the Czech Republic offered something other than a cargo of dangerous goods. The big question is whether it is possible to carry out such a load of dangerous goods at all. This is what the Czech investor from the Czech Republic proposes, since we also have certain laws on environmental protection. It was, of course, transferred to a private investor from the Czech Republic and the Mayor of Sapca. In addition, we are required to be supplied with cadastar plots and all the way the city of Sabac sees it so that they can implement it. Until today, we haven't received an absolute single sentence. But it sounds good when the newspaper comes out and talks in the media that the state won't do anything either, and here, the town of Sabac is full of ideas and information about new investors. So let us be a little synchronised in that part, because everything that is done in Sapac or any other city in Serbia is good for all of Serbia and no one makes any difference. Secondly, when you mention a story about a concession, there's a lot of detail when one concession is actually created and arranged. The Ministry's door was always open. As we talked about the harbor, we talk about everything else. You mentioned several times and I'm going to go back to that, that the investors who come here have a problem with any licenses, either with the state not doing its job. The state today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in situations where local self-government have difficulties with documentation, and beyond, it is the state that co-finances and helps and works. So our interest is that investments exist, that people come, that they invest and work here, so please, if we don't get along well, let's re-innovate the meetings on the subject. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4374	On what basis, Mr. Petrovic? Because the minister answered you? (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: It is not true. ) The condition of a replica or a basis, however you wish, is that someone offends you. You can't. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4375	A respected minister, respected members of the government, respected chairman, respected MPs, respected Serbian citizens, has been in practice during the period of application of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, certain shortcomings have been observed. In addition, it was necessary to bring this law into line with other applicable laws. Basic changes refer to the following. First of all, the application of the amended law will abolish the dominant position of the Waterway Directorate under the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, to carry out certain tasks of technical maintenance of waterways, and for the first time the possibility is opened to market conditions and to conduct the procedure, in particular public procurement, of course specialised companies similarly regulate their business activities in advance, but always under the professional supervision of the Directorate. For the construction of hydrotechnical facilities, other hydrotechnical works, packaging and the like, today there are specialised companies that are more efficient and able to carry out these tasks more effectively and faster. This achieves two effects. On the one hand, the costs will certainly fall significantly, and on the other hand this will have an impact on the private sector where we expect to create new operators on the market, create new jobs and market competition. The application of the amended law will, of course, increase the level of security in water traffic, and thus prevent the execution of crimes such as theft, piracy, smuggling and the like. These legal provisions are also adopted in order to comply with the provisions of the Private Security Act and will allow the application of part of the law governing internal water security. For the first time, domestic shipping companies and ports will have to engage security, licensed persons to carry out private security activities, and the time has come for this area to be arranged, as we have witnessed years ago cases of theft, smuggling and other illicit activities, piracy on rivers. The persons hired as security guards are obliged to undergo certain training under the Private Security Act. Also, the solution provided by this law will affect certain companies that provide, above all, a chartering service, i.e. chartering yachts and recreational vessels that are not included in any of the domestic registers of vessels, are already registered abroad, without crew members, which is particularly risky. In this way, other than tax avoidance, the budget has not made any revenue on the basis of contributions from crew members who are obliged to engage in the security of performance. Today, we have a situation that on rivers in Serbia, which has received certain conditions, yachts and vessels that rent and wind the flags of foreign states, which are subject to the laws, of course, of the states whose flag is bigger, do not pay taxes because it is regulatory in these countries. The amendments to the law will now prevent such cases and future ones, as the transportation of persons with a yacht, i.e. with a boat for recreation on the domestic waters of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of rental, will be carried out only by yacht, or by boat for recreation of domestic, state-owned persons or legal persons registered to carry out the work of renting a yacht, or by a recreational vessel, so those who have vessels registered abroad will have to, if they want to rent them and benefit from them, to pay taxes and to contribute to the employment of the crew on those vessels. This legal solution is common for legislation in countries in the environment. Also, the draft law requires that shipowners make their own emergency plans to help victims and their families, including transport, accommodation and medical assistance to victims and their families in the event of inland water accidents. This is prescribed for the purpose of harmonising the Law on accident research. Also, the provisions provided for in this law relating to port services are primarily designed to specify certain provisions for which the need arises during the implementation of the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. In 2010, to date, the emphasis was on regulating the status of large international ports. One part of the provisions specified in this law aim to identify and introduce in designated port areas the system and other smaller companies that started working before 2010. The second part of the provisions refers to companies that built ports by their own means between 2003 and 2010. These laws will allow them to recognise their status, but provided that they have built in accordance with the laws governing the area of planning and construction, as well as provided that they are located on the territory of the local self-government in which the port area is declared. Such solutions aim to introduce large operators into the area of port services, but also to create a legal assumption that several port areas in the Republic of Serbia are being established within the port of competition. These solutions circle a comprehensive reform process and regulate the area related to port operations. The adoption of this law expects a large and significant area of water transport to be rounded up in accordance with EU directives, as well as the needs of domestic economy and strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, what burned my ears off from the previous speaker is a critical attitude towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry. By the way, my previous speaker, during his reign, in 16 years, no details of the port structure, no designed segment was made in the town of Šapcu. The cleaning of Sava's water work at Šapac has not been done for more than 15 years, and the funds have come regularly every year, so the question arises where did these funds go and whether they were not purposefully spent. The port of Sabac almost does not exist, and the city did at a certain time the recapitalisation of the port, the property it had brought into the city did not bring in a single dinar of income and the question arises as to what kind of property relations were in that port. I am even more concerned, the same is said by the previous speaker, also from Šapca, who was the first to enter the Assembly, of course, not today, but October 5th. He was the president of the Sabac Municipality, when it came to the biggest privatisation malversions in Šapec. He was the Minister of Justice. We listened a few days ago to what was going on in the judiciary at the level of the Republic, when 800 judges were out of jobs. He was a minister of agriculture, he didn't have time to be a minister of the economy, and that's where he proved himself in a certain way. He just failed to agree with Boris Tadic whether he would be the first or second man of the state. I think it is degutant that after 12 years of the republican government and 16 years of government in Sapac, where nothing has been done, where the city is in great dubiosis, he criticises the minister for something he has failed to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4376	The word is made by MP Dusan Petrovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4377	Not to pay attention to all this, that's all nonsense, so there's nothing there. What I didn't get an answer for, and all of us together, I asked the minister very politely, I don't know why there's a problem with that, what's going on with the request of the Canadian company Emta to get a concession for making the highway between Ruma and Sapco? As far as the law is concerned, you're absolutely right, this is the law that centralized the system because it was necessary to centralize it, given the opportunities before that. I think now is the time to step forward and make decentralisation, because that's what makes the system more efficient. There's no dilemma at all. As for Sapca, the largest investment in Serbia is coming to Sabac, Japan's Jasaki, 25m euros in investment. Mayor Zapca managed to finish the big deal in the negotiations. Sabac is the city that has the largest industrial zone in the Balkans, not in Serbia, of 600 hectares. There are 15 other investors currently negotiating with the mayor of Sapca. Anyone who doesn't see it sees it sees the citizens of Zapca and therefore the mayor wins the election and now has the mandate to carry out all the big plans for the next four years. It's very important, Madam Minister, that together this big job around the port, step by step, we do. It has nothing to do with political games or bickering. You know, we know this is a serious matter, and as far as your local colleagues are concerned, it's not worth wasting their words on. They're being ridiculed by the whole of Serbia, so it's not worth this tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4378	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4379	I think he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure because Mr Dusan Petrovic was supposed to replicate to Mr Blaži Knezevic, not to enter the debate with what Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic had previously said. By the way, everything Mr. Blaža Knezevic said is true, and what Mr. Dusan Petrovic said has nothing to do with the truth because the Japanese company, truth, is coming to Shabac, but not thanks to him and Mayor Zelenovic, but thanks to the government of Serbia and Aleksandr Vukic. I think all citizens of Zapca would like to see what is the largest industrial zone in the Balkans built by Mr Dusan Petrovic. I didn't see her. All I know is that Shabac was the scene of unprecedented robbery privatisations and that no healthy firm in Šapac, after the power of Mr Dusan Petrovic, has remained, and every company, every company that will be coming to Sabac in the future, will come, not because of Mr Dusan Petrovic, not because of Mr Zelenovic, but because they have had a good reception in the government of the Republic of Serbia and exactly what Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic said, because Serbia has grown significantly on the debt list, because investors see in Serbia a country where they can safely invest their capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4380	First, right on the line, MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4381	So, since I was talking nonsense, and you are Mr. Dusan Petrovic, if you were in the Assembly at all, you were sitting on your ears probably when the prime minister spoke about Shabac and said three key things: that the government of the Republic of Serbia would work on the highway of Novi Sad-Ruma and Ruma-Sabac, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would bring the "Jazaki" firm to Shabac and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would finance the expansion of the free zone in Sapac. That's true. You're incapable of anything. Sixteen years you haven't made any investments. Before each election, you brought in "Veskovini", "Danijeli" without any preparation of the terrain and everything. And in that industrial zone you're talking about, there's no energy power, or there's no transformer right now that would lead to an investment. And now you've found after 15 years... You had 12 years of both republican and local authorities. You could've done whatever you wanted. (Chairman: Only, please, without any personal address. You were the first or second man of the state, you didn't say it before, tell us - it was me, Boris Tadic was a figure, say it honestly. You didn't do anything in Shupco, and you were a minister twice. So you don't have any results, but you're great media manipulations and you're doing great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4382	Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4383	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 109. Directly the previous colleague addressed Mr Dusan Petrovic, although you warned him he continued to do so. You did not warn him the second time, and I think it is very important that the discussion is back on the agenda and that we finally get answers from Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here is the third question of what happens to the highway – we have no answer to it, and on the other hand we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have Martinović's exposure and political exposure and abuse of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm just asking you to take these things under your control and really take care of the order in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4384	I'll answer to you, Mr. Bozovic. As you say, a colleague... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What plays this walking? As you pray... Mr. Bozovicu.. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: He throws it to me.) Well, you're not that naive. Well, you're throwing, too. I'm a witness to it all the time. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: But I'm not walking around the hall. He's walking in front of his MP group. Yes, it is. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can we walk around? Can you tell me who was defending you? (Balsa Bozovic, from the town: In front of the ranks? Walk. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: We can walk around you? Not here, but where are the MPs, of course, you can. As you ask from other parliamentary groups to adhere to agenda topics, I would just like to remind you that the question your colleague from your parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic, as regards concessions for highway construction, has nothing to do with the agenda. (Dusan Petrovic throws out of town. ) Now, seeing as Mr Petrovic throws it away, which I personally don't mind, until he was an MP but while he was a minister, this Rules of Procedure was brought in which you can ask a parliamentary question in writing. In that written form, your parliamentary question will be given to all MPs, all of them. And the answer you get from the government will also be given to all MPs. Now right to the replica, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4385	Thank you very much. You know, sir, this guy who spoke before me, he's not even capable of signing up, sinful. So he went to the hospital after he ruined the party in the election, but it doesn't matter now. So it's complete nonsense to even lead the controversy about this thing, about whether Jazaki brought the prime minister or the mayor. What investors themselves said had not made a good deal with the mayor and had not received good conditions, they would have left Serbia. Having received an offer to go to Kruševac, they were offered an offer to go to the Kingdom, and they were offered an offer to go to Nis. In Krusevec, two years ago, the city took a loan, and now the Germans have come, by buying a 1m-euro parcel. In Šapac, the Japanese bought seven acres of land, will spend 25 million dollars of their money to build a 30,000-square hall. Their initial request was for the City of Sabac to take a 15m-euro loan and make a hall for its money, as Novi Sad took credit, to make such a hall. So Mayor Zelenovic fought in negotiations to make a factory for his money. Of course the RAS as a competent institution has run the agreements and here, I think agreements will finally be signed this week. It's not bad for you to learn how to collect signatures, and it's bad for you to lose the election, so what do we do? Next time more fortunate, the citizens of Shupca know who they voted for and why they did it. So in the long term, I'm not going to participate in this thing anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4386	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. (Goran Ciric, from the post: The Rules of Procedure raised. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4387	I don't know why the DS MPs are so nervous. I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is the 107th dignity of the National Assembly, because Mr. Dusan Petrovic does not have the right to call anyone because at one point he had to go to the hospital and has no right to insult anyone because he had to seek medical attention. So, I think it's something that absolutely doesn't seem like a debate in the National Assembly. As for the town of Sapac, how capable you are of Mr Petrovic, had it not been for the Serbian government, Sabac would have been submerged in 2014. You didn't have shovels. You didn't have shovels, let alone sandbags. Your local self-government is one of the worst examples of how a city is managed in a non-domestic way. So, in 2014, the Serbian government saved you from floods, i.e. the citizens of Sapca, because it was a timely intervention of both the Resord Ministry and the "Serbian" ministry, without their help, the Sabac would have been submerged. Sava has already reached Zorka, you know that very well. Your mayor was sitting in the office. He didn't have any men ready, he didn't have the equipment ready, although he was carefully warned about how much rainfall we were expected and how much the Sava River water supply was. So, as the Government did in 2014 everything possible and impossible to save the City of Sabac from the floods, so the Government did everything in 2015 and 2016 to get the Japanese company you're talking about to Shabac, because the Serbian government wants to show that all citizens are equal and equal, including the City of Sabac in which SNS was not in power. And when you were in power, you were doing everything the opposite, not a single municipality in which the DS was not in power could get absolutely no single investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I see this debate going the wrong way, we can't go back to work on the agenda any time soon, I'm setting a break for an hour and 15 minutes. We'll continue work at 2.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The People's MP Sonja Pavlovic has the word, and let the MP Marjana Maraš be prepared. Sonja Pavlovic is not here. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4390	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today's assembly debate concerns two traffic laws. I will refer to this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. The Law on Inland Navigation and Ports regulates the conditions and way of safe sailing on the inner waters of the Republic of Serbia, regulates waterways and navigation, conditions for vessels and navigation, conditions for crewing, search and rescue, defines ports and ports, regulates supervision and other issues related to inland water navigation. These amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today represent further harmonisation of our legislation with EU water traffic practice not only because of the obligation we have, but mainly because of the need for further development of water traffic in Serbia is taking place in line with international standards and principles. The fact is that the Republic of Serbia, through which the Danube flows, one of the longest European rivers, has favourable economic and geographical characteristics for both international and internal water traffic considered to be one of the cheapest and most profitable aspects of passenger and goods transport. The total length of the waterway in Serbia is 1,680km and therefore this type of traffic is extremely important. Water transport also has special significance because it represents the cleanest type of traffic that provides a high degree of environmental protection and does not endanger the ecological balance of the plant and animal world, as unfortunately fuel used in road transport does. Starting right from natural resources, the Republic of Serbia has also brought a water traffic development strategy aimed at optimal use of these water potentials both in the area of transport and tourism, as well as overall development of all local areas located on the coast of these large rivers. The basis of the strategy consists of three main waterways in the length of 960km, which are three large international rivers, primarily the Danube, then Tisa and Sava. Also, we must not ignore the importance of the single network of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal, whose airworthiness is about 600 kilometers and which connects the streams of the Danube River, Tisa and about 80 settlements in Vojvodina. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal represents a good hydrotechnical potential not only for irrigation and draining of internal waters to defend against floods, but also for sailing, i.e. for river transport of passengers and goods. In the municipality of Vrbas, from which I am, there are three canals of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem and Vrbas-Nosdan with 80.9 kilometers, Becej 90 kilometers and Novi Sad-Savino village and it is a total of 31.5 kilometers and it has one seven kilometers that is not sailed, which passes through the very center of the town of Vrbasa. There are several cargo ports in the Danube and three passenger ports in Novi Sad, Belgrade and Donji Milanovac. The most important ports in the Republic of Serbia are in the highest volume linked to the main road and rail transport hubs, which facilitates the transport of goods, especially dangerous materials. For now, only Luka Belgrade and Luka Panchevo are equipped with container terminals. Three passenger ports in Novi Sad, Belgrade and Donji Milanovac are certainly not enough for the development of passenger traffic, but as far as I know, development documents predict the construction of passenger ports on all three waterways and 16 other municipalities. These ports will make it possible, above all, to increase tourism traffic, i.e. to enable all local communities lying on our water rivers to streamline their tourism potentials and economic resources faster, which is in the end line and the goal of developing water traffic in Serbia. Serbia is one of the most agile countries in the realisation of a major interstate project The Danube Strategy, which means a great effort to make maximum use of the Danube potential given the high percentage of the share in the use of waterways in the total volume of traffic carried out daily in Europe. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that the municipality of Apatin, whose head was now former president, Dr Živorad Smiljanic, has made an idea solution to the construction of the international public port of Apatin and with a study of the economic justification of construction within the logistics centre. The study was conducted by the Faculty of Technical Sciences and the Faculty of Traffic from Belgrade. The Apatin Stock Transport Centre would then go to the Danube and that would be the first port in the duty-free zone in Europe. The total investment for the construction of the port and logistics centre was estimated at 34.6m euros. There are interested investors. A dynamic assessment of the economic justification of the construction project was carried out following the assessment of the expected revenues of the Apatin port with the inter-model terminal. The assessment showed profitability because the internal profitability rate was 6.42 and indicates a safe and rapid recovery of the funds invested. However, this important project of building an international port in Apatin has not yet passed all the procedures necessary for the start of the realization, but I hope it will be realised soon, and I would ask you, Madam Minister, that in accordance with your capabilities, since I have some knowledge that the Port Agency has not opened an international tender, and there are interested investors who would invest precisely in the realization of this project. For all of these reasons, which our authorised representative Stefan Miladinovic has cited, which will also be stated by fellow MPs from the SPS parliamentary group in their presentations, we will support both draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4391	The People's Messenger Bozidar Delic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4392	I thank the chairman. Madam Minister, honourable MPs, we are talking today about a law that was passed in this Assembly in 2010, and then several times repaired through additions. When I analyzed this law, I looked at your ministry's scheme. I believe that the economic activities that your ministry regulates are among the most important actions, so your ministry is certainly one of the most important ministries of this government of the Republic of Serbia. In order to carry out these activities, it has a highly developed organisational structure, which primarily includes nine sectors, two administrations and one directorate. From the analysis of this organisational structure, it can be concluded that if this ministry has expert personnel, I do not have such knowledge of these particulars, it can be very successful in carrying out activities in all these economic branches for which it is responsible. True, this law was passed by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic in 2010, and in 2011, the same government made a decision on the establishment of the Port Management Agency. The agency did not practically live until last year, or even this year you breathed her life into it. I remember that in 2010 and 2011, when the rule of law was passed by that ruling majority, which is here in the opposition assembly today, and today's ruling majority was absolutely against not only that agency, but most of the agencies formed by the Serbian government and which we do not know today how much. For what? Well, because according to various data, the agency spends 6-8% of Serbia's budget somewhere. Not directly, some directly, some indirectly, because if you go on a government website and you look for these government agencies or agencies, only one number of directors and agencies will appear, and the other you will only get when you state their full name, as is the case with this. These agencies are from different ministries. For example, this Port Management Agency has been given some jurisdiction from your ministry. What she took from port captains, then from directorates, management, that's another thing, but her founding act says she's independent in her work, and it's also said that for the start of her work the funds will be provided by the government, meaning from the budget. I have always thought that your ministry must and has so much power that this agency is unnecessary, as is the position of the SRS that from 100 and more agencies maybe up to 10 agencies are needed by the Republic of Serbia, and that everyone else, in one way or another, are practically users of the budget and that agencies are spending it, even the two military budgets of the Republic of Serbia are said somewhere. When you take a further look at the responsibilities given to the Agency and what were practically responsibilities outside your ministry, what particularly falls into your eyes? Through these changes and in this last amendment, we have that the Agency gives port concessions. This is something, even if we, radicals, think it belongs to the Government, that it should do so on your proposal, that it determines the height of these port concessions and those port concessions precisely, that part which is charged on that basis, is also part of the funds of those agencies, just as it charges the port fees and publishes those port tariffs. Our opinion is that this agency, as well as most others, should never have, and that all this that has been mentioned for this Agency is the work of your ministry and that according to this very crazy and strong, scheme and organization of your ministry, you could have done it, just as many ministries could have done before you. Now, if you say it is in line with European recommendations, attitudes, you know what our party's position is and about joining the EU. There are 12 port captains attached to your sector. Just as you have as a special institution and Waterway Directorate, in the inspection sector you also have one section dealing with these issues, and in the two administrations that have your ministry, one administration deals directly with these issues, and within this Department of Transport of Dangerous Freights, one part of it is also dedicated to the burdens carried by waterways. When this is all seen, our position is, for which we will not vote for these amendments, that the Agency mentioned from Article 205 to Article 214, which it practically has in these changes, is not directly mentioned to us, but is changing 14 members in which it is mentioned in a broader or narrow form. That's why, I say, our position is that we won't vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4393	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4394	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of Prof. Mihajlovic, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig Municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I will now speak and, normally, support the proposal for an air traffic agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Korea and for all other laws proposed by our Government, headed by Mr. Vukic. We are all witnessing that the development of traffic in the previous period was very bad, I think for the period until 2012, but back in the year, two, traffic development is very big, active and especially now air traffic development. We have heard and heard from our minister in charge of this portfolio that the ER Serbia had previously had over five million passengers. It is extremely good, excellent, but I will look more at the town of Nis, at the Nis Airport, at the Konstantin Veli Airport, because our pearl in southeastern Serbia is very well done in the previous period thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and especially Minister Mihajlovic because it, backwards, year, year and half invested over four million euros. Witnesses only witness that from 2010 to 2013, Nis Airport was in very poor shape, down to over 4,500m euros. So the period that was before, I won't repeat it, but we'll talk about the future now and then. We are witnessing that much has been done at the airport thanks to the enthusiasm of the people who led the airport, thanks to the people who gave the vision, it is the director of the South Development Agency, Mr. Bojan Avramovic, who, along with the director, and normally with the help of the ministry managed to increase the capacity of the airport from 20,000, and now it is 100,000 passengers for November, the month will be safe. So, a year ago, a year and a half ago, the airport really contributed to the development of tourism in Nis, Srlig, Gajina Han, how tourism development, rural, hunting, and other types of tourism. That is why by the arrival of a large number of people from all over Europe, from all over Nis, we see the result of the development of tourism. For example, people from Basel, from Malme, come to Nis for a very small amount of money, which is said to be small money, because these are very favourable flights for our people, to Nis, to the airport, to Srlig, to go hunting, to visit the Old Mountain. I expect that in 2017, too, I am sure that the competent Ministry of Transport will end up part of the road from Srlig towards the Old Mountain, because it is something that is most important for that part of our Serbia, for the east of Serbia, for the development of tourism. Once again, I know that for the period to come, the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will separate more than sixm euros to boost the airport's capacity, to allow up to 700,000 passengers to receive and to serve up to 700,000 passengers. It is something that is really important for the entire part of Southeast Serbia and I am sure that in the coming period we will now increase the number of flights to a large number of countries. For example, we have a large number of countries, we have flights from Basel, Munich, Dortmund, Malmer it is "Viser", a Hungarian company, "Reaner", an Irish company, for Berlin, Bratislava, Milan and other flights. Now we have something new, it's a plane flight from Nis – Istanbul, a kargo flight, where our Nis businessmen will be able to transport their goods and that's the most important thing for Constantin the Great Airport. Once again, I am sure that by the development of air traffic, I will place a special accent on the Konstantine Great Airport, because we have witnessed that in the previous period of 2014, the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, which is stationed in Nis, has helped all parts of our Serbia, where there have been large floods, and we know that several weeks back from the airport, has gone to help people who need it. Once again, Prime Minister, I am sure we will be able to provide funds for the implementation of this project, to increase the capacity of the airport to 700,000 passengers, as this will enable us to ensure the development of the southeast of Serbia. I'm talking about different types of tourism. There is another kind of tourism that is very important to all of us. It is dental tourism, where many people from foreign countries come to Serbia, to our experts to fix their teeth. It is another species and opportunity to work on the development of tourism. Therefore, I am sure that you, a respected minister, that the Prime Minister, that our government, in the coming period, will allocate much more funds for south-east Serbia, for the development of infrastructure, both air and road infrastructure. The corridors are being made, the road to Piroth, Bulgaria, Macedonia, will be being routed to Pristina, something that will mean a lot to southeastern Serbia. With the development of the southeast, Serbia will develop both agriculture and other branches that are important for the development of our country of Serbia. Once again, I will support this law and all the laws proposed by the government, headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, as an MP of the United Peasant Party, but elected from the SNS list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4395	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4396	Mr. Arsic, I'm really surprised that you haven't responded, with all the sympathy I have for the previous speaker, a member of the 106s who says the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. You, as chairman, know the points of the agenda that we are considering, and I have not seen among these two the item of the agenda called – praises about the work of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. This is about everything, about Nis being a beautiful city. Nis is a beautiful city, here it is, it is nice, but the problem is that it is more done at the Nis than it was three years ago when it marked the 1700 years of the Milan Edict. It seems that the arrival of Alexander Vukic is incomparably more important. To you, Mr. Arsic, it wasn't enough that you gave a little hour's break for an hour and 15 minutes. That's how you humiliated parliament, because when you want to work, then you accelerate in every way you can. When you don't want to, when the minister is due to go on TV, then a break is given at 15 to seven. If by any chance the minister were visiting the Pirot, then you'd probably be taking a break by two in the morning. So don't play. Try to have the same arches as the chairman. You cannot warn the opposition's MPs if they come out of the topic, or if in a broader way they explain what they want, while allowing MPs of the ruling coalition to talk about anything, about what they think at that point, on one condition that the more often in the course of their presentation they say, "Living Prime Minister, thank you Prime Minister, there would be no Istanbul, there would be no airport, there would be nothing."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4397	Here, my colleague Sarovic had the same criterion as his colleague Milija, who spoke shortly before you advertised the Rules of Procedure and colleagues to Bozidar Delic, who spoke only about the Agency which is certainly not a topic. How the Agency's job should return to the ministry's jurisdiction. I allowed it, I didn't interrupt the speaker. This is your programming goal and I understand it and that is why I let Mr Delic state his political position and political goal which he has and for which he is fighting and for which he truly believes. A colleague named Millie also made a comparison of the importance of roadways and waterways. I don't see what I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: No, this is an explanation so well that I do not want to. We're moving on. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic, and let the MP Nikola Jolovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4398	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another law before us, which we are adopting according to an emergency procedure. So, the practice of the previous assembly of parliament continues, when almost half of the laws were passed by emergency procedure, and on the other hand, each third of these laws was reinstated in the process of supplementing or correcting, especially when there is no adequate explanation, as is now the case, why we adopt the law by emergency procedure. As for the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, the authorised representative of the SDS and NPS parliamentary group, Mr Konstantinovic explained this today and said that our support for this law will depend on whether you accept our amendments, which are five. Of those five, there are notes that certain things are deleted, the rest are very seriously prepared and I would ask you to look at these amendments. I am pleased to hear today that there is a certain increase in revenues through waterways and port operations in the Republic of Serbia. Also, you said important corridors were passing through Serbia. I would have corrected you, a respected minister, that certain parts of Serbia are right to go through very important corridors, but you have parts of Serbia that are completely neglected in this regard. Since I come from central Serbia, I am an MP from Triestenik, in that part of Serbia from Cicicec via Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjakbanja, Kraljev do Cačka, you do not have those corridors, nor if we are watching the waterways, nor if we are watching the highway Pojate – Preljina, for which I have not received a reply from the prime minister why it is not in the government's programme for the next four years. I'll take the opportunity to ask you now - what about the sea corridor, which is announced? But in line with the agenda, I'm going to ask you something else, which is, since we don't have a highway, what about the announced Danube channel – Morava – Vardar? We have been listening to epochal announcements from your first government member, Mr Bacevic, from the President of the Republic of Mr Nikolic, that this is the project that Serbia has not had since its beginning and the greatest developmental chance, that the study has been assessed positively, that this project will bring thousands of new projects, that the project will classify Serbia in the EU, as a force. So it's a project that the government of the Republic of Serbia represented. There has been a lot of talk about it, and in the end, Mr Bacevic, whom you have replaced at one point, said that all the documentation relating to the Danube channel – Morava – Vardar, handed it to you for further aging, so I ask you in the interest of the citizens of central Serbia, to get at least one important corridor, which would give us equal chances, as well as other parts of Serbia. As for the second item of the agenda, relating to the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, in Article 2, I will ask you about the granting of rights. For me personally, there is one major illogicality in paragraph 2 where certain air carriers are foreign Contracting States during the performance of the contracted traffic on designated lines have the following rights, and among other things - to land on the territory of the other side of the Contracting Party in the places set out in the Annex to this Agreement. The annex to the agreement states that the places that are scheduled for landing, any place, are several times listed. I'm asking a question - what kind of annex if it's any place and could be listed as a member? But speaking of any place that could land, I have to ask another question about airports in the Republic of Serbia, which are scheduled for civilian flights, such as the Morava airport in the King, namely the Ships, or the Ponikva airport in Uzica. As for the Morava airport in Kralje, since 2012, ministers have been racing, starting with Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, through Minister Ilic, through Minister Ljajic, and up to you, a respected minister, who will sooner announce civilian flights from Morava airport in Brodjevci. So from year to year, from month to month, it was announced that soon civilian flights from Morava, that a co-operation on the construction of Morava was agreed with the President of Turkey, that the company from the United Arab Emirates was investing in Morava, Morava airport. Well, you said on February 11th that the flights from Morava started in 2015, and then you also said on November 6th, that the Shipmen were becoming a military-civil airport by the end of 2015, and then you said on July 29th 2015 that flights were starting from mid-2016 and that the Brodjevci airport had huge potential and that you expect regular flights to begin in the first half of 2016. So, I'm asking you now -- do we even have a development strategy and do we know what we're going to do in air traffic and airports, or are we going to open up a little bit to Morava, and we're going to open the Poniks a little bit, as to who, at which point more like it, especially from the point of view that both airports are very important for Serbia's even development. In the end, the prime minister himself said before the April 18th elections that the Ponikve airport would open in late August so as not to open it in the campaign. Today is October, the end of October. August was a long time ago. We don't have any information on whether the airport of the Ponykva or the airport of the Shipmen will be open.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4399	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4400	Mr. Ambassador, just a few clarifications. When you're talking, even though that's not exactly the topic of the agenda, but let's take that as part of the traffic, and yet consider it as being a topic of the agenda, then it might be more like – and what was it about Triestenik and the environment when we talk about investing in local roads? As far as I know, most of the financing of these routes was done by the state through JP "Serbia's Ways". Secondly, when you talk about corridors, the Moravian corridor will be at stake. You know it's an investment of half a billion euros. But I should also remind you that practically by 2012 and 2013 there were construction of approximately highways between 15 and 30 kilometers annually. You can comment on something that's half-way, to open up a little bit of this, a little bit of what you say, but the results say something quite different, and the people who travel, if anything, can see that way. And every time we've done and done, and 270 bridges we've done for the past two and a half years and 100 kilometers of highways and 192 kilometers of rehabilitated road just last year and an additional 100 kilometers and this time so much talk about Ljig-Preljina, which we'll soon open. I invite you all to come see what it looks like. So that's all this government does. So everything that hasn't been done in the past 20, 30 years, where various politicians have raced in the story, people above all that you've worked with, today is another time. Today, politicians are racing, you're absolutely right, and we're racing who's going to finish the job sooner and who's going to open, say, a airport, so that out of a thousand passengers, as many as there were at the airport two and a half years ago, we're recording 76,000 passengers today, by the end of the year 100,000 passengers, next year 200,000 passengers. You're absolutely right. I totally agree with you. The truth is, we race to be faster, to be more efficient. We are racing to complete all corridors that some have not finished before us, because it is good for Serbia, because it is good for the citizens of Serbia. I don't have to tell anyone who didn't finish it. Everyone here knows. But we'll do it all and finish it. When you mention airports, that's very interesting to me, that's great. I told you about Nis. You're talking about the Poniks. The government of the Republic of Serbia invested money in Ponikve and finished the jobs, what was left to be done, part is tied to the fence itself. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, has not invested one single dinar before this government, e.g. So we'll open up the Ponyks as well. When we talk about the Boats, the fact is that we're going to make a difference, that's to make that airport civil, to be military. He's military now. There's a need to extend the runway. We're looking at how we're going to finance it, because it's important for that end, because we're aware of what that would mean to the end. But every shift made in transport in any area, whether it's road traffic, whether it's air traffic, whether we're talking water transport, about rail transport, whether you want to admit it or not, did this government. After all, we have done everything for the citizens of Serbia. Maybe it wouldn't be bad for you to look at what we're doing, so maybe something from all this we're doing someday and you learn. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4401	On what grounds, colleague Alexic? (Miroslav Aleksic, from the scene: she asked me what I did. Say it in the microphone, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4402	The minister spoke to me about the local roads, and I wanted to answer. She asked me to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4403	The minister only said the local roads were maintained by the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4404	Very short.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4405	You have no right. My friend Alexich, don't throw it away. [[(Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: I have the right to reply. She didn't answer any of my questions.]] The Minister answered all your questions, and about the stealth bridges, and about the stealth roads until 2012. The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic, and let the MP Balša Bozovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4406	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports is intended to implement the harmonisation of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Water with the provisions of the Law on Private Security, the Law on the Research of Air, Railway and Water Traffic, as well as the offices of certain issues which have not been settled or which have been observed in application and whose solution required the finding of quality legal solutions. This draft law, more specifically Article 10 of the Law, provides for the addition of the law in the sense of regulation that the carriage of a person by a yacht, or by a recreational vessel on the part of the interior waters of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the rental of a yacht, may only be carried out by a yacht which is in the possession of a domestic natural or legal person, registered for the exercise of the work of the renting of a yacht, or by a recreational vessel, which will be prevented from providing any commercial company with the service of renting yachts and recreational vessels not registered in one of the domestic registers of a vessel, but registered abroad, and that the vessels concerned are rented without crew members, which is in practice confirmed. In order to comply with the provisions of the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents, the law requires the obligation of domestic shipmen to adopt their own emergency plans to assist victims and their families, including transport, accommodation and medical assistance to victims and their families in the event of inland water accidents, as provided for in Article 13. The draft law, and in compliance with the Private Security Act, provides that the draft law provides that in order to protect the property, business of the property, premises and persons of the ship, the port operator and the Waterway Directorate are required to organise safety protection, by contracting entities licensed to carry out private security activities or as organised self-protection. A work that must have an organised plan, organisational and control function, in accordance with the law governing private security, which will allow the application of a part of the law governing internal water security. The solutions set out in the draft law will have a positive impact on most of the participants in internal water transport, and one of many will be that the Waterway Directorate will abolish the monopoly position on certain technical maintenance operations of international and interstate waterways. In view of the fact that there are specialised companies on the market today, the private sector is believed to be more efficient and faster to carry out those tasks, but under the supervision of the Directorate. The application of the draft law will have an effect on the creation of new operators on the market and on competition, as it is for the first time possible, through the abolition of the monopoly position of the Waterway Directorate on the conduct of certain technical maintenance operations of international and inter-state waterways, to open up, under market conditions and public procurement procedures, companies specialising in the construction of hydrotechnical facilities, the implementation of other hydrotechnical works, the embedding and similar participation in these operations, and thus continue to develop their business. For all of this, the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4407	The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4408	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I am advocating Article 108, and I want it to be true for my parliamentary group, for all parliamentary groups, but also for the honourable ministers when they come here, because I hope that we MPs are bound to speak only the truth, especially those who sit in government. In 2009, the contract was signed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and then Uzica Mayor Jovan Markovic. After 20 years, something was done at that airport and at the conference...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4409	My friend Milojits, what does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4410	Yes, I've reported a breach of article 108. Please just let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4411	Article 108. "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the session of the National Assembly. Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give the measures of caution, taking words or moving away from the session. On the basis of the measure referred to in Article 2(2), the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs shall impose a fine in accordance with the provisions of Rule 114 of this Rules of Procedure. The record of the measures referred to in Article 2(2) shall be kept by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. “ Let me explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4412	Can I just tell you? You didn't hear me at first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4413	No, you started talking and explaining that Minister Mihajlovic wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4414	At first, I said all MPs, all MP groups must speak the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4415	Mr. Milojicic, if you ask me to do this, I have no problem fulfilling your wish, but when they start to shower warnings, you'll be in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4416	It's no problem. Just let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4417	You'll be in serious trouble, and here's counterpart Balsa Bozovic knows what's going on. Please, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been harmed, so we can finish this discussion. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4418	Can I just finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4419	You're done, believe me, don't ask me to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4420	I would like to say that in 2009, a contract signed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4421	Thank you. The word is made by MP Miroslav Aleksic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4422	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. You didn't give me the right to a replica, even though the minister personally called me and eventually told me I needed something and to learn. So, as far as learning is concerned, the minister probably has someone to teach, I don't need to, but at least it would be polite to tell the truth here and answer the questions of the MPs. I didn't get an answer on any of the questions about the Danube-Morava-Wardar channel. I received information that they paved the way... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4423	Comrade Alexic, you had a chance to ask questions this morning, and you'll have them on Thursday. (Miroslav Aleksic throws.) Well, you don't have to. She has a duty to answer your questions regarding the law under discussion. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope my colleague knows the Rules of Procedure. In time, I advertised, right after the injury committed by my previous colleagues. Namely, Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8, Mr. Chairman, you are instructed that when such an abuse is obvious to take time away from the MPs' groups who have abused the Rules of Procedure and expressed their statements in replication. A team before some truth is mentioned here, how truth should be established, etc. We don't have to tell the truth here, but I'm mostly telling it, they don't. I'm ready, for everything I've said so far, to go on a polygraph, and they run away from a polygraph like a devil from a cross, and I think it would be very easy to determine how many times the road in Medvedja is, that would be seven meters high, how many beers "Heineken" are drunk there...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4425	I understood what the MP was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4426	You can't let someone look here to tell us the truth when they're obviously not telling the truth. Therefore, in the future, I demand that you take time away from the parliamentary group in such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4427	I think in time I was able to prevent the MPs from taking advantage of the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been issued by MP Balsa Bozovic, so let the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic, be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4428	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I think we should put down the ball and the tension, get back on the agenda. I do not see what is problematic, gentlemen, when it comes to the truth that Mr. Dragan Sutanovac and Mr. Markovic, as the mayor of Užica at the donor conference, provided three million euros to clear the mines from the Ponikva and I do not know what is controversial in the truth when in 2000 Mayor Goran Ciric, who sits on my left, also as a result of the donor activity of the Norwegian government and the budget of the city of Nis, also cleaned the airport mines and fixed the 30 craters we found after 1999. It was a prerequisite, as you and the minister know, that the Niski Airport today is free to say, I'm having a boom, and I'm glad for that. I think that by the end of next year, the Niski airport will have 200,000 passengers if "Er Serbia" or our foreign partner "Etihad" does not affect the fact that it also drives these airlines "Loukost" so-called "Loukost". companies from the airport because it is not in the interest of a partner who has 49% ownership in Er Serbia. It is also the same if we talk about this law agreement between Serbia and the Republic of Korea on the establishment of air traffic, I think it is again a question of who is in the interest of whether Serbia or "Etihadu" who owns 49% of "Er Serbia". Who's going to pay for the possible establishment of that line? Well, citizens, there's no one else. Citizens with reduced salaries and pensions, the same citizens who have already subsidized "Er Serbia" several times, although they do not have the right to manage management, although they do not have the right to have insight into a signed contract when it comes to the liquidation of JAT, and of course to form a new joint venture. When it comes to the establishment of air traffic, it is very important for Serbian citizens who benefit from it, of course. Do they have owners from the Emirates or have Serbian citizens, as it is possible that "Er Serbia" in which Serbia has invested more than 600m euros by forgiving debts, which by subsidising has 51% and the partner has only 100 million, has 49%, Mr Arsic and you laugh and I find it funny why such a contract is signed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4429	According to what my colleague Milojcic asked for, I should now give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4430	I find it rather strange for us that "Er Kroacia" makes it a better deal by selling two slots, twice 75 million euros, or 150 million two slots, and we give all our slots to the management of Etyhada and we get no more than 100 million, and we invest 600 on the other hand. It is some mathematics that is obviously on the side of Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic and it is not the first time and "Belgrade on water" is there with 32% of Serbia's ownership although Serbia invests 100 times more than an Arab partner, but well these are already some things that citizens are slowly getting used to. In the last three years 14 airlines have left Nikola Tesla Airport, they have been driven literally out of Belgrade, for the simple reason that one airline, of course domestic, had the opportunity to forgive all taxes, debts, why are we worried about it? We are proud that Serbia has a national airline, we are very proud of it. But we're also worried about how much it costs us, because we can't have an account whether it's worth it or not? JAT was also a national company, so it was obviously not worth it, and on the other hand, I'm not sure it's worth talking about cost-effectiveness when at the same session of the Assembly we cut salaries to educational and health workers, and 170m euros we give a grant to Er Serbia, which is one four times more than the value of the salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4431	Can you please find me in the law and one single place that says "Er Serbia"? And in an explanation. Please, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4432	It is also important to note that we had a public debate, as you yourself know about how much these lines cost us. And I'm glad that by who knows which time in history our country has a direct flight to New York. I'm sure it's fifth or sixth in a row. It dates back to 1970s and some until today. It was also established by the government of Zoran Djindjic and the government after Zoran Djindjic, and I think it is good today that this government has set up a direct flight to New York. But again, I ask you how much it costs, such as today's intensity that in the future, due to the obvious interest of the foreign partner, a direct line of Belgrade, Seoul, for example. And who will pay and if it's true, here's Mrs. Mihajlovic, so she can answer, is it true, for example, that a foreign partner absolutely does not pay for fuel but pours it for free at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, that is the question. The question is, is it true that we lost 14 airlines and that in some way I'm saying we made it impossible for Nikola Tesla Airport to have a lot more passengers than there are today, and there's not a few. And I also believe that it is in the interest to protect Nis Airport tomorrow, for example, which I am quite sure will have more than 200 thousand passengers next year, because it is also part of Bulgaria's flight through Nis and Nis today that with the "low bone" companies managed to do thanks to all those jobs that Mr. Ciric and the other mayors managed to do, there is one positive business balance. I hope that we will protect the interest of the City of Nis and the Airport in Nis as you will protect in case a line is established between Belgrade and Seoul, the financial interest of those we have reduced, to remind you, pay and pension to subsidize some business partner which is absolutely not just. What my colleagues have been saying is, of course, the Air Traffic Law, is it true that, in addition to all these subsidies, there are very small salaries to the operational staff who care about the deployment of planes, crews, operational flight plans, etc., what is important for safety during flight? If 30,000 dinars are their salary, and hundreds of millions of euros are subsidies, then I don't know who we work for? Is it more cost-effective to us or is it more cost-effective to “Etichada”? I also think it's very important that we know and it's all in the form of a question, I don't argue because I don't know what the contract says, so I can't just have the exact information. Is tomorrow when sold to "Nikola Tesla" if you decide to sell it, this government, will this new airport owner forgive "Er Serbia" debts? Well, he won't. Does this mean that "Er Serbia" will then remain on such terms on this in Serbia? Well, that's a question. And if we're huge money, and we don't have a guarantee that this co-operation will be extended. I see nothing controversial about my colleague Alexic mentioning this channel Morava-Wardar-Egaysko Sea for the simple reason we are talking about another law, which is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. I just want to know if these future ports in Vranja and Vladica Han will also be part of this law and whether this law and all future ports that will be in Serbia, perhaps one in Trstenik, perhaps one in Leskovac or not, or whether we will bring new amendments and additions to the law, because I am interested in how long these papers have arrived, given that you are five years Minister Mihajlovic in one way or another present in the Government, I believe that the basic promise of the President of the Republic is actually going to end in some reasonable period, so we are interested in how far you have arrived with these works. Did we raise our construction industry, did we somehow make it to the Aegean Sea until the Macedonians arrived on their own side? How's the Vardar work going? We had floods this year in Macedonia, and whether they were caused by these new water streams coming from Serbia or not. This is one logical question since it was the first and most basic pre-election promise in 2012. I'm done. I think it is very important that I speak of what is here of interest and not of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not an interest to sweeten local self-governments that have the opportunity to use these ports, and on the other hand, is it in the interest of Serbian citizens to pay more to a foreign partner than to their educational and health care professionals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4433	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4434	Mr. DS, you've said as much as you have every time and however I try to write every sentence of yours in each one I find at least 70% incorrect and 30% unknown. But, well, that's why I'm here to explain everything you've said, not because of you, because I'm not sure I can fix the thing here, but because of the citizens of Serbia who may be listening to you right now, and I can think, by any chance, that you've left our country in a wonderful state, developed, with lots of highways, with lots of passengers, and in fact the citizens of Serbia remember very well what it looked like, and we, too, who in the government of the Republic of Serbia, have been very well aware of what mathematics you were doing, since you mentioned mathematics while you were speaking. You've done so well that you've left us with debts, problems, and, of course, to start with the airport, that low airport and your people you say have invested a lot. I just don't understand one thing about how you did something good at Nis Airport, 2004 you fixed your runway, so what did you do until 2014? How is it possible that by 2014, until we arrived you didn't have more than 50 passengers? So something happened here after all. Now I don't know if it's your mayor's incompetence or not, but that's why you gave a million euros to fly there. You also did, I really think, a terrible precedent for giving extra money from the Nish budget and really making huge deficits just because you funded something that you practically didn't believe or there was some other interest in. In any case, Serbian citizens can see today that since 2014, in the first year, so in 2015 we already had 30,000 passengers thanks to the investment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, director of the "Nikola Tesla" airport and as I said by the end of this year, 100,000 passengers. I'm sorry, it's not the result of your mayor, it's the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. Secondly, you also mention one mayor of the town of Uzica, who you are saying allegedly invested in the Ponica Airport. Here is how well the citizens know what it looks like to invest in the Ponika Airport, so we count on him to do what you say then it's not clear to us how it's possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is investing in the building, because if we wanted to come to the Ponika Airport at the time of the mayor of the one you mentioned in Uzic, then we could come by the air line about to come and go, and we couldn't come anywhere because there wasn't a building at that airport. Today there is a building, the fence ends, and I believe that very soon we will bring the "Ponicva" Airport to the real cause. So far, small planes are going to seven places. When you mention "Nikola Tesla" airport and when you even mention "Er Serbia" and the whole story at all, I'm sorry there are so many emotions that are so negative and it's really too bad because I think that somehow we have to put our emotions aside and we just have to look at the results, the numbers and what's really done. I want to remind you that at the moment when there was a final privatisation of JAT, which you allegedly are, when I say you think primarily of all those who ruled at that time, DS so whoever it was, the fact is that you had at least five strategic privatisation consultants JAT, that five studies were made, that none had ever been realized, and that we all knew very well what it looked like to travel to JAT. At the time of privatisation of JAT, the number of passengers at "Nikola Tesla" was 2.2 million. I'm telling you, in 2016, we're expecting a five-million-dollar passenger. Since you mentioned profit, that might be even better information. So, the 2013 profit of "Nikola Tesla" was about 1 million euros, in 2014, it was 28, 2015, 27, 2016, expected 28. You have to admit that there's a huge difference between one and 28. Therefore, when you talk about the companies we lost, you mentioned something about the number of companies we lost, no company has left for the past two years with the "Nikola Tesla" airport because the moment "Er Serbia" grows, other companies are also growing. The second thing, you know very well, the only airport in the region that has the potential for growth is the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, thanks to everything we've done so far. So every single thing you've said actually has one emotion, unfortunately not so beautiful, and it doesn't have any real truth, because you're referring to the truth, these are the truth, these are the facts, these are the data. On the other hand, I'm not clear, I'm really sorry you didn't mention the law at any time. I thought you had enough time to at least read this law in front of you, but well, there may be time in particular, until Tuesday. As for "Berograda on Water", you also mentioned it, I must tell you that I will never be clear – why are you against having something arranged, that you have a promenade, that there are buildings, that they sell real estate? However, it is possible and I suppose in your case that you are very pleased that the real estate market will grow. I guess it's okay for you. I suppose you're also looking forward to all of this, the real estate market, and I'm also glad that the real estate market is growing, but I'm also glad that it means that there is a need and a demand for apartments. You know that better than I do. I apologize, this part you know better, certainly and in that sense we will have a better development of Belgrade and the whole of Serbia. It's a shame to be against such projects. My proposal to you when it comes to such projects, when it comes to "Er Serbia", "Nikola Tesla" Airport, where you see profit, it is a win-win combination, when you see "Belgrade on Water" not to be against, but to try to understand that it is good for everyone, so one day you may just boast "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4435	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4436	The truth is, since you mentioned the truth, I will invite you to try to look back in history a little further than 2014 for all of us and all of those people in Serbia who watch this transmission. Here's an example. I don't think history has started since the government in 2012, or since 2014, as it hasn't started since 2000. I think you should point out more respect for all those people who've been involved in all those projects. Airports and Nis and Ponikve and all these projects we talked about were projects in which people participated in 1989. The first time was built an airport in Nis in 1989, and thank all the people who participated in the project and should be mentioned. In 1999, 30 missiles that fell on the runway at Niski Airport, some unexploded with remains of poor uranium just a kilometer or two from the centre of Nis, you have brave people, deminers where in 2000 we launched as a local self-government with the support of the Norwegian government and with a significant donation, but above all the courage of Colonel Martinovic and his team that demined the risk of lives. I want these people here to thank all of us for all the projects, for everything they've done for both the city of Nis and Serbia and for flying today and from Nis, as they will fly from other airports. I think it's fair and that the real truth is that we accept that some other people are before us, and then when we were wearing that key responsibility, both in 2000 and 2004, you're doing the best you can today to make things work. But this approach -- we've only been flying since 2014, and so on, it's something that can't be accepted in any way, and I think that in that way, with that relationship, you're showing a bad relationship to both the past generations and the present and the future that I'm sure will be much better than we are, and that's what I see here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4437	Thank you. I'm asking you to take care of the weather, I've extended 30 seconds, you've continued to speak for another 30 seconds, and I was about to give your colleague Balša Bozovic the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4438	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Unlike some, you're always in the mood for a democratic debate and thank you for that. When it comes to "Belgrade on Water", I don't know exactly what you're alluding to, but I can tell you what I'm drawing attention to. So a few billion euros are damaged when it comes to the contract. You signed him, he was not wisely signed by Alexander Vukic, because he's a good lawyer, you signed him on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When, then, believe me, because of the damage to the public interest of Serbia, the resources and assets of the Republic of Serbia, I have already filed a criminal report against you once, the prosecutor's office for organised crime refused, but trust me, that when the contract signed by the joint venture "Belgrade on Water" has 32% of Serbia with billions of euros invested, and a partner with 100m euros of loans from the joint venture has 68%. You've damaged it, because you're building 3,500 thousand euros per square, you're building a shopping mall, you're building a pub, that's not a public interest. It is the interest of your tycoon friends from the UAE, not of the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. For this reason, we have mentioned a thousand times, here, once again, when, then someone will answer to Serbia's judicial authorities and be sure of that. I promise you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4439	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4440	Mr. DS, when, then, we will walk this promenade and enjoy a wonderful view, where "Belgrade is on the water," when, then. As far as criminal charges are concerned, yes, she was rejected, that the citizens of Serbia know, and as for several billion euros, I quote you, I'm not sure that you know at all what numbers you're talking about, so I would really like to hear your billion-euro structure once in a while. So, I'd like you to add up all those billions you're talking about, or maybe think about a little bit, or start from what your previous party has been doing to me, God, since 2000 and so on, when we're talking about billions, about privatisations and everything. So, "Belgrade on Water" is a serious project that is being done and made and is very important, not only for the capital, it is important for Serbia, it is also important for our construction industry. You asked about the construction industry, I'll tell you that at the moment before the government formed the share of the construction industry in DBP was about 3.5%, today it's 5.7%, and it needs to be more, at least 7%. All the data I'm telling you about the results of this government's work. We would certainly have been much better if you had really worked honestly in the interests of this country in the past 10.15 years. Unfortunately, you're not, you're no longer in power, you're being punished for it, but please, if anything, start reading the laws, start informing yourself, and then let's talk really seriously. This seems to me, as I say, without any clear guidelines. "Belgrade on Water" is the best project we are currently doing and you know it. Excuse me, just one more sentence to finish. You mentioned that Nis Airport is working and thank you because it's been working since 1989. It would be really fantastic if you had ended all this and we really didn't have to invest in security in 2014 and so on, and we only have 75,000 passengers after these investments. From 1989 to 2014, no part of that money needed to work was invested. I guess the point of the airport is that it works, not to talk about how hard you fought for that airport, you invested a lot, and at the end of the day the airport didn't work. The airport is working today and I know very well every dinar around the airport, because it's a special area of interest to me, just because I keep listening to stories about both the Ponyks and Nis and some other airports around Serbia that don't invest in them. The only government that has sat down and made a list of airports and knew what and what airport it is investing in is the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. You don't like it, but it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Kiriq, you've told each other everything you've got. (Goran Ciric, from the place: I did not say. The Democratic Party is mentioned, and I am the head of the DS. ) You have received an answer to your question, asked by you or your colleague I'm sorry, we'll keep working. [[Goran Ciric, from the place: Give me a replica.]] You'll have plenty of time, Mr. Kiriq, anyway. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic, and let the MP Miroslava Stankovic Curcic register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4442	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, members of the ministry today, we are discussing the draft law on amendments to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. At the beginning of the presentation, I mean, it's not the point of talking for long, and you're not smart if you talk long and you don't measure your mind, but by the results. The results speak more than any word. Words can be nice, they can be decent, they can be rude, but in the end, when the game is over, there are some numbers and those numbers are there for the audience to see who won, to let the audience see who played, to let the audience see who had what kind of team. This audience in the Republic of Serbia is those people who sit around all day following this direct transmission and who listen to some people who have their mouths full of concern for the citizens and who will pay for it, some things, and now I'm going to tell you that those who care so much about citizens and citizens' interests, say, worked in the City of Belgrade while they were in power. I'm not going to flirt with billions, because for a smaller number I don't know and because I don't know less about asking for it and because the tycoons that work with these gentlemen aren't used to making less than billions, but because I'm going to tell the truth. Just a few things to say. In Belgrade, major experts have led you to the city's budget and the city's finances to collapse, to bankruptcy. Serbia was led to minus 3.6 growth, those great math experts. From what we hear, they were the worst in high school math. Minus 3.6 growth is greater for them than the current 2.6, their 10.20.30km of the roads they were working is more than 200km of what the government of Aleksandra Vukic made last year. For them it is greater than Corridor 10 and 11 which will be completed by the end of next year, for them it is all greater. Here are the practical examples. For example, an example of underground containers, where citizens both in the Old Town and in Vrakar and in all other municipalities in Belgrade break their legs, which fell after a few months as they were set up, and paid, and citizens need to know, and thus damaged the city's budget and the city's cleanliness in Belgrade by 170 million dinars. It's a citizen's concern. Also, the reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevard, not to go into detail, so as not to owe, 650 million dinars have damaged the city of Belgrade with their combination, they say, not the job, but the combination. And why not? People need to hear that when they talk to each other, they don't say – work, but – we have a combination. That combination cost Belgrade 650 million just there. "Pazl City" on Vozdovac 30 million. It's a replica of Theasia, so they're all replicas. We had a replica of "Better Life" with them. We want a better life, we want real highways, we want real Europe, we want Serbia in the EU, we want free, we want rich and independent citizens. Twenty-four controversial privatisations, that's all at the time of those who raise their rules of procedure and what only replicas and performances have. Here's a little bit of what's been done when it comes to Er Serbia. Only last year, the number of passengers increased, and for every commendation, and if they were real patriots, if they really cared about the interest of the citizens, they would say – every honor of the people, professional management came to Er Serbia, no more hiring party staff, no more party directors, professional management for the first time runs Er-Serbia and an increased number of passengers by 11% last year to 2.5 million passengers. Transport cargo volume increased by 39%, passenger transport capacity increased, capacity utilisation increased by 4% to 71%. We can list the results of the ministry led by distinguished Minister Mihajlovic and other ministries by tomorrow. We can tell you what we're gonna do next year. They have no idea, they don't listen, they don't care at all. No direct flight to Maldives, I'm so sorry, it doesn't fly from Old Town to Maldives, it won't work anymore. Now from Old Town, those who lead him will fly to prison. They're talking about corruption. Well, the tycoons were invented. The tycoons have been invented, and the tycoons are being tried today in Serbia. The verdicts are pronounced by the tycoons. The roads in Serbia are working. By the end of 2017, Corridor 10.11 begins, the rapid Belgrade-Budapest railway, with our friendly country China. These are serious projects. I'm glad the opposition is looking forward to it. It's an indication that there's hope for them too, there's hope, they might get some less years in prison, not as much as I'd like to, and what to do. The result of investment in the rehabilitation of road infrastructure is also one of many important things that I have to point out in my presentation, because compared to 2014, a reduced number of traffic accidents has been reduced, the number of people who died on the roads. That's no one's interested in the group across the street from me. Who cares? It is important whether to fly to Maldives, it is important that the municipality of Stari Grad is given 40,000 euros just for making logos of the municipality and that the logo must be immediately the logo of their pre-election campaign. You lost 90% of the municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. You don't have any government in town, you don't have any government in the Republic, you're nowhere to be found. Well, is that the result of your authority?? Is that the result of you being very professional, right? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You lost in Old Town. And you're not very convincing if you yell. I understand anxiety, I understand fear. When you don't drink for a long time, a man shakes his hands, gets nervous, what to do, aggression. Now I'm waiting for my colleague to get up to beat me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4443	A fellow Filipovic, let's talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4444	Unfortunately, it's going to be hard to get through in that force measurement, I'm very sorry. I'm sorry, in 90% of the municipalities you're gone, that's the old town you managed to take on some scam, but the republican list you lost there and the one that only the Rulesman raised and waved here by cursing us when he got out of the O.R. was the second one there. That's terrible. I don't even want to talk to people like that anymore. It is important to me that we adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, it is important that Serbia goes forward, it is important that citizens have the opportunity to hear who has ideas, concepts and strategies, it is important that we also know that citizens hear because of the truth, who has concrete things to say here, and who has nothing. Who only has to swear, insult and threaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4445	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4446	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is carried out. It would be like if I were to analyse it now, I reported to the Rules of Procedure that Ms. Minister was a government advisor by 2006, and then a JAT adviser. So she was almost in power by 2012 as long as the DS. And it wasn't a topic, as I advertised in Article 106, it wasn't a topic or DS results or underground containers in Belgrade. What the DS has done for four years in Belgrade, you gentlemen, with Cynthia Mali, cannot even paint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4447	What my colleague Filipovic was saying has to do with the agenda theme of how much someone talked about the Danube-Morava-Vardar-Egeysko Sea channel, the floods in Macedonia, whether, ER Serbia, the privatisation of JAT Ervejz, the Croatian Airport, Uzic Airport, Nikola Tesla Airport, the number of passengers and so on. That's what your colleague from your MP group was saying, and I wasn't interrupting it. So I may have covered the Rules of Procedure in that part of which you quote, but then I broke it even when Mr Bozovic spoke, as I did when Filipovic spoke. If I've broken it either way, I think I'm right. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day and on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Yes. ) Now he has a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's MP Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4448	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting for breach of Rule 107 of Rule 1 and Article 108 of Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know which of these two members, or attitudes, are more marred, and I would ask you to truly preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. We're in the 12th hour, we're already in the 12th hour of the debate. We've all dropped our concentration. We're talking about everything, just not the subject that's on the agenda, and I think it would be more than correct for citizens who follow this transmission to be respected in such a way that they can follow a serious discussion on the subject that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4449	The same answer from my colleague as my colleague Milojicic, who I gave you, applies to your injury to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague Filipovic is a young colleague, a new MP and you will also have time and opportunity to learn what a parliamentary debate looks like. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm going in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4450	This replica is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4451	Replic on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4452	Well, it says in Article 104, which is the basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4453	Who mentioned you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4454	This is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4455	Replica, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4456	It's in article 104, which is the basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4457	Who mentioned you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4458	Is anyone, the chairman, I don't know if you're following this session. I understand, it's 12 o'clock, people are asleep. The man was talking about someone cursing on his way out, this MP group that was second in Old Town.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4459	Have you been cursing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4460	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4461	Have you been cursing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4462	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4463	Have you been cursing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4464	Well, I have a replica to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4465	You don't have a replica if you haven't cursed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4466	Well, it's not your place to appreciate my replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4467	No, it's up to me to appreciate whether you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4468	Something was said that wasn't true. Article 104 makes that clear to you. Stop making a circus, and you understand so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4469	Mr. Radulovich, stop making a circus. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4470	You've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which says the chairman is taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You violated the Rules of Procedure because you gave us an explanation that DS MPs were talking about everything, but not just the agenda points, since you stated that we are the only ones talking about airports, Nis, the Shipmen, the Danube-Morava-Wardar channel and the other MPs mentioned it, but you did not mention it. Members of the ruling coalition spoke of both Nis Airport and some other topics, and you didn't mention it at all. I think these are topics, because when it comes to this law, about river navigation, why not mention and ask a question, which the minister did not give answers to, which is, did she communicate with the president of the state, who announced this project a channel from the northern seas through the Danube, Morava, Vardar, to the Aegean Sea, and the questions of our MPs, what are the plans regarding ports on that waterway? There were big promises, hundreds of billions of investments, dozens of billions on an annual basis. It was a serious promise from the president of the state, the then minister, the predecessor of our current minister, and I think it was correct to get answers to those questions, and that was in line with the agenda and with all the things we talked about today. So this is in some way an invitation from the minister to answer that question – how does he communicate with President Nikolic and how do they synchronise their moves regarding the realization of this project, once again, Danube-Morava-Wardar?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4471	Time, fellow Kiriq. It's your right to think whatever you want, I'm not defending you. But today, October 25, at 21 hours and 32 minutes, 35 minutes, it doesn't matter, it's my discretionary right to determine what's not what. I let fellow MPs take their political stances, both Mr Bozovic and Mr Filipovic. When Mr Bozovic speaks, you sit next to him and will not at any time remind him that he is not on the agenda, as his head of the Parliament Club, and you are asking me... (Goran Ciric, from the post: Milija talked about it. Well, you see, that's where you and I are different. I let each other talk. You would only let your people speak, and you would silence others. I know exactly what it looked like when you were running the sessions here, not you, but MPs from the vice president of the DS. Well, we broke up with that practice. We're moving on with our work. In order not to resent me from the SRS, the word has been made by the MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4472	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the beginning of my presentation of several sentences, I will analyse the gap between regulations and practices, which, allegedly, is an excellent example of the partnership between the state and the private sector. I'll just list some of their effects. Only after the entry into force of the Law on concessions in 2003, Article 3(6). The Privatisation Act, which stipulates that the subject of privatisation cannot be natural wealth and good in general use as a good of general interest, begins to produce a fact in relation to ports and ports, i.e. port infrastructure. It is only then that the port's activity is recognised as a state-of-the-art good of general interest. The Regulation on the conditions, criteria and method of exercising the right to conversion, i.e. the right to use in property rights in respect of compensation, as well as the way in which the market value of the building land is determined and the level of the conversion-based fee, the amending Regulation in Article 4(1), provides for the provisions relating to the reduction of the compensation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4473	I apologize, colleague Đuricic. A five-minute break until Mr. Radulovic realizes he should return to his post. Ask for a word, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4474	I can talk from the start. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of its presentation in several sentences, analysing the gap between regulations and practices, which is an excellent example of the partnership between the state and private sectors. I'll just list some of their effects. Only after the entry into force of the Law on concessions in 2003, Article 3(6). The Privatisation Act, which stipulates that the subject of privatisation cannot be natural wealth and good in general use as a good of general interest, begins to produce a fact in relation to ports and ports, i.e. port infrastructure. Only then, in 2003, is port activity recognised as a state benefit of general interest. The Regulation on the conditions, criteria and method of exercising the right to conversion, i.e. the right to use in property rights under compensation, as well as the way in which the market value of the building land is determined and the level of conversion-based compensation, the Amending Regulation in Article 4(1) is specified in the provisions relating to the reduction of the conversion fee, and regarding the value of the land on the market and the rights of use on that building land after 11 September 2009. The person who applied for the right to make a conversion pursuant to the regulation before the amendment of the Regulation of 16 March 2012 shall be entitled until the date of entry into force of this Regulation on 24 March 2012, and shall, by 31 December 2012 at the latest, make a discount of 30% of the determined amount of the compensation. We see here what was actually happening to that state good in the hands of the government. We see that executive power takes into its own hands for some reason solving these issues in its own way. To whom this and this sort of solution at that point did not fit, it certainly did. It's 2016 now, and we don't see that anything has changed. Article 32. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on inland waters reads - the solution to be granted for the performance of port operations is finally in the administrative procedure and can be initiated by an administrative dispute within 30 days of the date of receipt of the solution. In your reasons for passing the law, you state, among other things, that you wanted to edit the issues that were observed in application and whose solution required finding better-quality legal solutions. We of the SRS fully agree with you that it is necessary to regulate better what we are discussing today, but it is not seen from your proposal. This Article 32. The draft law on amendments and additions has shifted from the jurisdiction of the legislative authority to the executive power. You are today asking us to, by adopting this amendment and supplementation proposal, allow the solution for the authorisation of port operations to be finally in the administrative process, which means in some cabin roads not completely transparently, in some agencies, which has already been seen in the case of secondary privatisation of Luke Belgrade. This can't be an example of anti-corruption policy. Why are you asking the National Assembly to accept your proposal and bring down the norms from its general jurisdiction? Is port activity so delicate and subtle and pre-filled with unpredictable and variable situations, and have we seen these situations before? It is known that the legislative authority is preventively, and the court ultimately protects itself from the abuse of discretionary decision-making of the administration and this proposal seems to have wanted you to bypass both legislative and judicial authority, giving yourself the exclusive right to be the only fair solution in your hands. This shows that there is no confidence in the independence of the main actors of Chapter 23, which is your starting point, that the inefficient judiciary is directly negatively reflected in the economic activities of society, rejects foreign investment and leads to the slowdown of the development of society in general. You do not have any obvious confidence in the efficiency of the judiciary according to the Luke Belgrade case, so the epilogous court case has been pending for years. Whether or not to use Article 217. The law is desperately trying to find a solution for Luka Belgrade, which was privatised back in 2005, and how does the 2008 Anti-Corruption Council Report break the rights of small shareholders and states? In 2010, the Council filed criminal charges against 17 people, doubting that in 2005, at least 21m euros were damaged in the illegal process of taking action by Luke Belgrade. Why is a government that fights corruption and crime so much and you as a competent minister, and this is your second term, so far you remain silent on this problem? What these solutions serve is overexplained after an exhausting period of their application and irreparable damage to the state's well-being. We do not recognize the desire to put this and the amendment to the Law on the road for the above reasons. It is known that well-known monopolies are interested in providing all kinds of support for state structures. By adopting this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, you want the National Assembly to leave you an open question of legalisation of capital through the privatisation process. The impression is that you have transferred your rights and responsibilities to the Agency, which the Serbian Radical Party cannot possibly agree to, in order to support the Port Management Agency, whose funding is not directly foreseen in the budget. You have introduced the payment of port and port services, and this and how it can be reflected in the domestic economy, which should not be burdened further. The law does not provide for a fundamental solution to the problem, but how to increase the flow of money into the budget, mainly through the collection of fines of as many as five members of the law, and the level of penalties is from 5,000 to as many as two million dinars. Why is there always a partial change in something that is essentially not good and always something remains unsolved and unsaid? I'll remind you of the following. I believe that the majority of those present read the book "Political System" by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, which states that everything is a matter of legality and that I quote: "The general acceptance of the principle of legality in modern political systems and legal denial has shown that the traditional dilemma in whether people or laws should rule in the country is settled in favour of the law. So far history has shown that every government corrupts a man, and for its part, man is burdened with emotions so that in these circumstances he can remain strict and just. The law has no emotions, but it has a spirit that is created from generally accepted values and ways of all close goals. “ This is what the SRS advocates, which will make amendments to this and this bill and try, as far as possible, to return the topic to the legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4475	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4476	Thank you. Dear MPs, a few words only, which is that the law certainly forbids conversion on port land, which I suppose you should have seen, you know. When you say that this law will only increase and boost corruption and when you say that we wanted to bypass certain legal means, I don't think you're right. On the contrary, we wanted to avoid the ministry being a second-degree organ, and that's why we put the Administrative Court in, because we don't think it's good for the ministry to be a second-degree organ. Secondly, when you mention the port fees, then I want to inform you that the port fees have been charged since 2013, that the rate of charge is 98%, just so you can see that the economy did not accept those port fees or could not accept it, and the budget revenue is 1.6m euros. I'm glad of everything you said you advocated investment, you mentioned foreign investments. I think that's good, given that there weren't many investments in the past, that there are many more now, but when you mention Luka Belgrade, then you should know that just during the term of office of the government, Alexander Vukic, the issue of Luke Belgrade has been resolved by a judicial, criminal and judicial nature, so remember Mr. Bubal and more and more how the case went. It didn't happen in the period before that. This law needs, on the contrary, to help arrange port's performance. Also, what is very important is that infrastructure, land, I repeat once again, are in the public property of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be subject to any conversion when we talk, first of all, about land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4477	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4478	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Mihajlovic, co-workers and MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation that are before us are met with all aspects, legal, economic, fiscal and security. Through these amendments and additions to the law, it contributes to increased public income and taxes, but also to certain savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is important that these changes are compatible with the appropriate group of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce that participated in the preparation of this law. Based on these findings, considering the situation in this area and the need to change it and break the amendments to the law in question, I believe that this law on amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters should be supported. In addition to significant changes in the regulation of yacht chartering and economic importance, safety and safety content are very important. In my discussion, I would like to highlight a provision relating to compliance with the Law on the investigation of car accidents adopted by the Assembly a year ago. When amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation were adopted last year, the proposal to take over from the Port Captain's office was welcomed, to examine fatal accidents and serious physical injuries. It was pointed out that this solution could contribute to improving the safety of navigation and prevailed in the opinion that similar practices should be introduced in the coming period, both in rail and in air traffic. A few months later, the ministry proposed a brand-new law on air, rail and water accidents. This law combines all three types of traffic with regard to accident and accident research, and we unreservedly supported it. The Law on the investigation of traffic accidents regulates accidents and serious accidents in air, rail, and maritime and navigation accidents and accidents, and it is very important to regulate the authority and powers of the authorities to conduct investigations and investigation procedures, as well as to monitor the application of this law. This law also established the Research Centre as an independent institution. I would take this opportunity to ask Ms. Minister Mihajlovic a question, and the question is, how far has it come with the establishment of the Centre and are all the sublaws necessary to implement it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4479	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4480	I'll just take a minute. The center has been formed, the sublaws have been passed, and for all the laws we've passed so far, within a deadline. So it's all over.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4481	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Ivana Stojiljković, and let the Parliament of the People be prepared, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4482	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, today I wanted to put a special accent on this proposal, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, but I simply can't skip it without saying a few facts relating to Ponikva Airport. The largest activities of the airport "Ponikve" are precisely in the period 2011 to 2016 and if we are to take the actual state of action, then, in 2011, the former military airport was transferred to the management of the town of Užica, and by 2013 only the idea demining projects and project tasks were essentially done. So, since the arrival of SNS to the government and this government, which was working on the arrangement of the airport “Ponicva”, the first phase of cleaning, i.e. demining, was done, all the project ideas and impact assessment studies were done, from 2014 and 2015 a number of donations were received, and I will only list some. These are light systems, 2.5 km of fences and computers from “Nikola Tesla”, 8.8 million dinars of donation of the Civil Aviation Directorate and 2016 donation of the “Nikola Tesla” airport to the construction of the terminal. The fact is that there are another 2.3m euros missing, it's big money at stake, but the government of the Republic of Serbia and this ministry are really working to put this airport into operation. Now I'd like to return to the amendments to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The level of one country's development is seen primarily in the level of traffic development. So traffic in terms of information transfer, data and human transport has existed since when society exists, so it's being monitored. Serbia certainly has a favourable natural-geographical position and has a very good basis for developing all three types of traffic, both land and air and river. Serbia has had the opportunity to take advantage of it, although it has sometimes not, but we hope it will do so in the future, offer the shortest and safest routes for the integration of the East and the West and is located at the very intersection of Corridor 7 and Corridor 10, which are very important two corridors. However, Serbia's traffic policy has not always been at the highest level, so it can be said that it used to be pretty bad, when it comes to traffic. For decades, these potentials have not been used and, unfortunately, the funds of privatisation instead of being spent in infrastructure, they are focused on consumption. We talked about the importance of road corridors last week and it would be too much to talk about now. About Corridor 10 and the parts of the highway that we call Corridor 11 we spoke three days in a row and can indeed be said and confirmed that the Republic of Serbia is making special progress in this direction, that hundreds of kilometers of highways have been built and, of course, numerous reconstructions and construction of other categories of roads have been carried out. But I would return to Corridor 7, which I would particularly talk about today, which represents the Danube River and the port of Serbia, which has been unjustly neglected in previous years. It can't be said that in the past decades there was no legal and planned documentation related to the development of water traffic, but unfortunately, there was always a kind of dead letter left on paper. I would also mention that there was a desire to redistribute traffic flows from road to rail and river. It was 20% at the time, today that percentage is much higher. Because of the inefficiencies and irresponsibility of former authorities, unfortunately, it has not been built, infrastructure projects have lagging behind and we are suffering very big consequences today. First of all, we have limited economic and social development. Then, we missed our chance to charge, to profit from transit across our country. What's very important, and what might not count at this point, is – how do we get the traffic back that's already bypassed us? It should be kept in mind that traffic is somehow always going on a regular basis, so in that sense, too, probably, and when we build corridors, we will have a big job to direct that traffic across our country. Serbia has very good conditions to develop water traffic, because it has about 1,600, perhaps 1,700km of water rivers and canals. The biggest one is Dunav, Sava, Tisa, Begey, Tamish. These are our water rivers. Of course, the Danube, which makes this Corridor 7, very important and passes its length about 30% only through Serbia. There is great potential for the development of transport, trade and tourism and especially the yachting of tourism, and we have heard about it today, that there will be very significant changes here, because so far we have had yachting tourism developed, but unfortunately Serbia has been damaged here because it has not collected income tax and tax on receiving employees on yachts or on other boats serving for recreation and, unfortunately, it has remained without money because these yachts have been registered in other countries. What is also very important, domestic carriers have been brought into an unequal position. From now on, it will be possible to rent only vessels registered in Serbia and to wind up on every flag vehicle owned by it. When it comes to ports, of the 11 ports it has in Serbia, eight are located in the Danube and all eight are of international importance. All ports are unfortunately used with a very lower percentage than would be optimal and therefore we cannot talk about the development of water traffic without well-equipped ports. That is why I hope that this law will do exactly what it is the goal and that this law will be a final step when it comes to reform law and onion and that this will be brought to the highest possible level. So we have seen that changes in the 2015 law have already made a number of positive shifts, so today we have a large number of interested world and European port operators for public private partnership. If we take into account that this government and this ministry have made a number of good reforms and that we already see this in our air traffic, air traffic, today we are monitoring it at a rate and we are in line with all European legislation on air traffic. As far as road traffic is concerned, it's being built intensively. After many decades today, we are really on the right track and road traffic. I have no doubt that there will also be a successful reform of water traffic and that our traffic flow that can bring our Serbia back to life in an economic sense will be completed. Also, that's what this news of the day is about, and it's very beautiful. Congratulations to both the ministry and the government, and to all of us because this is a very good news for all of us that Serbia jumped from 54 to 47th on the world's "Doing Business" list and that we are among the top ten countries in progress on this list. It's for all praise. All right, congratulations, and thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4483	Thank you. Mr. Milojich, what is the basis of your report? You have no basis for replication. You are not at any time the speech of colleague Stojiljkovic mentions. (Radoslav Milojic speaks from place:) She spoke about the airport of Ponikva and I think she spoke very correctly about the topic which is the point of the agenda. She was both tolerated and correct to... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: I am emotionally bound. ) I understand your emotion, I understand that you are emotionally bound, but colleague Stojiljkovic was so tolerant and correct that she did not answer questions regarding the specific airport from Užica, as it comes from Užica. She waited for her order, did not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure and replica, and spoke of it within the time of the SNS parliamentary group. You have no basis for replication. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing a bad bill today. A bad and harmful bill, of course, provided it was adopted as proposed. Why is that a bad idea? Because the Law on sailing and the ports on internal waters is changing, here today, the fifth time. It has been changed four times by you who are now the current government. If there's a need for a law to change five times, it's in itself saying it's a bad law, so you change only one member each time, and this time you have about 50, 55 members that you're changing. You, Madam Minister, have, in your explanation, spoken something that has very little to do with what's written in the law, especially in the analysis of the effects of the law. You've been telling us here about Serbia's favourable geographical position, about 1,600km of waterways, three Danube, Sava, Tisa waterways. Although, you didn't say it was Alexander Wolf, but that's how it is. Although you have failed to say one important information, which is why these amendments are actually passed, which is that Serbia has ten ports and that the actual sale is Luke Novi Sad and that what is contained in these fundamental changes is much like what is already speculating in the media, that this law is changing to accommodate the privatisation of Luke Novi Sad. It is mentioned "Renus logistics", some German company. I expect you to tell us something about it and tell us what's true, what's not true. I don't know, of course, how much this has to do with what we've almost in the media met your activities in your office, in the shifts of a large number of people, or layoffs in your office. Of course, you as a minister have the right to choose a cabinet, or people in the cabinet, but it's interesting that your associates were good until this last election of yours for minister and the question for you is, what did they do in that previous period and does it have your responsibilities in their possible mistakes? Ah, it would make sense if he did. What I would also like to point out concerns certain people in the jurisdiction of your ministry, the Port Captain, above all. Branislav Milesic and Vidoje Bajic were replaced at the head of the Port Captains, and this Vidoje Bajic is otherwise the man of the previous Minister Velimir Ilic and is now being prosecuted. He was also thinking in Smeder's head of the Port Captain's, and the brains of this team are Zoran Gvozdenovic, in public known for giving Tomislav Nikolic and his sons licenses for the management of, ship's books, so-called, for the management of water facilities. And he's being prosecuted, and you should, as a minister, know, if you didn't happen to know, that after this debate tonight, check what this is all about, whether this man can still perform such an important function and such a serious job. In an analysis of the effects of this law, as you wrote, if you wrote this, it is in one of the first subtitles that will be affected and most likely by the solutions in this law. Is it possible that you're talking about the most likely influence of this law or influence? You must also know to go before the MPs with something that you claim is 100% true and something that is concrete. You just before when you responded to her debate, you boasted that the port fee, the payment of the port fee reached 98% and that it was charged since 2013, if I remembered correctly. And that's nice, but then it doesn't exactly agree with what you wrote in this explanation. It looks like you didn't write this, or you certainly didn't write it, but you didn't read what it says here. You say – The bill will affect the Water Roads Directorate, which abolishs its own monopoly position on certain tasks of technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlović, if the Directorate will no longer have this monopoly position, to whom did you assign this monopoly position? Someone's gonna have it. If anyone has to, then I guess it's better to have a directorate than I don't know who. You say that this solution is proposed that because of the fact that the Water Roads Directorate did not have enough resources to carry out those tasks over a long period of time because of budget savings. If the charge for the port is 98%, and here you state the problem of lack of funds, and as you claim, Alexander Vukic claims that the budget is full of savings only by reducing wages in public services, which is a stolen part of the pension, and we see here that wherever you may have taken a bit of damage to the obvious normal functioning of the state and state bodies. The question you haven't answered - how much are they, since it clearly says so here and obviously that there are some means in the ownership of the Directorate, how much are these funds worth, I mean the technical means, how much are those assets worth? We need to know that too to know whether these suggestions of yours are meaningful and whether we can vote for them. How many employees are in this department? What's gonna happen to those employees? Will they share the fate of your associates who have recently been fired or have they already been fired? We expect you to tell us something about that, too. Interestingly, there was no mention of the issue of Danube, a water river in a work that flows through Serbia. Do we have, can you give us information – who are the contaminants of the Danube and who cleans the Danube, who pays for cleaning up the Danube River? Of course, when it comes to the Sava River, what is of particular interest to the general public is what is the negative impact of the existence of the villa Tomislav Nikolic on the Sava coast, does this have any effect on this law and on the amendments to this law that you have put into consideration today? You say on the other hand – unlike the Water Roads Directorate, which receives from the budget the total funds used for staff salaries, maintenance of vessels, and the operation of technical maintenance of waterways, companies will, pardon, pay and technical maintenance costs of waterways, companies will provide the cost of wages and maintenance of the vessel by performing the jobs offered on the market. Why doesn't the director do it? Why is the Directorate not doing the jobs offered on the market, and then you say – so that the difference in funds that will be provided by means of a change in the way in which the Water Roads Directorate works will be used exclusively to finance technical maintenance operations. How technical maintenance if you rule the directorate out of this business. You're saying you're taking her monopoly, you're actually taking all her jobs. So there are a number of questions that you, Madam Minister, have not answered here personally or in this explanation that we have received, I end my colleague, within the framework of the bill. We expect when we speak in detail that we will communicate a little more on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4485	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4486	Dear SRS MPs, just a few things to clarify, maybe that's enough. If not, then in particular when we talk. First of all, when you talk about rivers at all, you said Danube, Sava and Tis, and at the beginning you said – it is probably for that, or it is not because of Alexander Vukic. So you see, for what soon, I think 21 November will be signed an agreement between Serbia and Hungary, Tisa will become an interstate open river for ships of all flags. So far, it has only been for ships of the Hungarian flag and the Serbian flag. I have to tell you, it is, precisely because of Alexander Vukic and the relations that exist with Hungary. Secondly, when you're talking here, you've already said qualifications that it's a bad law, etc., I don't want to comment, he hasn't changed five times, but three times, when you're saying it's about privatising Luke Novi Sad to fit into a German company, and you're asking me for specific information, I really can't answer a sentence -- set up for German companies, because I don't even know what that means. So, the privatisation of Luke Novi Sad is being conducted. We expect a letter of intent, everything is public and everything will be public. What I am particularly proud of, is that unlike all previous governments, this government does not sell the port area, i.e. they can never become landowners or those infrastructures and, additionally, whoever performs the port's activity in Novi Sad, it will also sign the investment contract needed to make Luka Novi Sad truly more efficient, better and there would be much more goods being loaded or unloaded from that port. You're in the office that I'm running, okay, okay. No one got fired because someone was doing bad work. No one's done a bad job, there's a lot of work in the cabinet that I run, because that's three resistors. So it's infrastructure, construction and traffic, it's "Aj duing" business list and gender equality, etc. And Roma, but what was really necessary, was that we needed to have even more, even fresher energy, fresher people. That was the only reason and additional, besides one engineer who existed, there are now a little more in the cabinet, because there's been a need for people who are those professions, and I'm not an engineer, and I need to have information about it. Next, let me get back to the law now. You said, among other things, about the port fees themselves. We have a little problem here now, because it seems to me that you're mixing two things, and they have nothing to do with each other at all. Therefore, one is the port charges charged by the Ports Agency and are in the budget of the Ports Agency and are used for reinvestment in the ports themselves, and the other is the Waterway Directorate, which deals entirely with other tasks and has no connection to these port fees have nothing to do with what the Directorate is doing. Secondly, the Waterway Directorate, next to the river information system, is tasked, as you know, with projecting, carrying out that technical maintenance, which you mentioned, and supervision. Now you're saying, among other things, why is that money coming back to technical maintenance when they're not doing it? Well, because they have to carry out public procurement primarily, because technical maintenance won't get anybody in four eyes, and no one will be set up, as you've mentioned something about Luke Novi Sad now, but there's a tender and those companies that meet those conditions will get the opportunity to perform technical maintenance. Just because there was a monopoly and things weren't effective, technical maintenance will be done by someone who offers the best conditions on that public call. You mentioned the captains, that Bajic you mentioned, now they told me, I don't know, we're also conducting a disciplinary procedure against him. I'll ask around about this second part, and let's say by Tuesday, when we have a discussion in particular, I'll inform you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4487	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta, you're registered in the system. What's the basis of your call? (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. ) I don't think you have a basis for replicating for one simple reason, because you just got very taxing and precise answers to all the questions you've asked. You've asked questions, you've raised certain dilemmas, you've talked about what media speculation is in some way, you've asked some questions that don't concern the agenda, and I've allowed you to. You didn't mention one moment to have a basis for replication. (The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: she completely misread what I said.) ) Answers the Minister's very tax and precise questions. You have no basis for replication. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Ivkovic, and let the National MP Olivera Ognjanovic be prepared. (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4488	So, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure say that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on working at the National Assembly session are applied to other participants at the National Assembly session, as will the proposing representative, in this case Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic, the minister in charge of the debate under this law. I really don't see what your problem is to give the People's MP a replica. The replica doesn't mean a fight, the replica means a conversation with the minister. Mrs. Mihajlovic gave some explanations, I am not satisfied because she did not include everything I actually asked and what was much more important than what she said, she did not answer. She did not answer who cleans up the Danube, or who pollutes the Danube, nor did she answer what was wrong with this ironedenovic who provided Tommy and his sons with a license to run a motorboat against whom the criminal proceedings were being conducted. So, in my debate, I didn't tell her that, she said that I didn't understand, and now of course I have to tell her that she's pretending she doesn't understand, that's a little bit different in the people, but I'll be nice. She understood perfectly, but she certainly avoided the answers to direct questions. What was really interesting was admitted by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic that all ministers are actually Alexander Vukic and I don't know why she came here then, because there's Vukic still responsible for the water river Tisa, as she said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4489	Thank you, Mrs. Radet. As you can see, I really don't have a problem giving people MPs my word as chairman. Of course the DS MPs were also given a word when they had a basis for it. You've advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you've received word on that basis, but I can repeat what I just said - I think you've asked certain questions and you've received tax-exactly very precise answers from the Minister. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4490	Just a little addition, since I was waiting for information. So, all the licenses for the motorboats have been withdrawn, since that's what you're interested in. All licenses for motorboats have been withdrawn. As to whether we're all Alexander Wolf and that, I don't have a problem with that. The thing is, what you do in life and what you've done in life and how much experience you have in everything. It's my pleasure to do that. I don't have a problem with anyone telling me if I'm Alexander Wolf or not. I don't know why it bothers you. What's the problem? I just don't get it. So, yes, we are, we are the government run by Alexander Vukitch. He is the prime minister of the government, as some other governments once were and such as some other people who led those governments. I think that's okay. Especially good when you're making a good result, then you're just particularly pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4491	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, you answered? No, I don't. Mrs. Radeta, you're back in the system, which is the basis of your reporting now? (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: The basis is the answer to the question of what is the problem. I have to remind her. No, I won't let you, you don't have a basis for reporting. I told you a little while, you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think you used that breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it. We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Ivkovic, and let the National MP Olivera Ognjanovic be prepared. Please report to colleague Ivkovic. Here you go. Please sign in and leave your card. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4492	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendments to the Law on Navigation, the ports on internal waters we are discussing today are envisaged new solutions concerning the technical maintenance of waterways for which Serbia has an international obligation, then raising the level of security in the conduct of water traffic, combating the gray zone in the area of the renting of recreational vessels, there is a alignment with the Law on Private Security, with the Law on the investigation of air and water traffic accidents, as well as with EU regulations, which my colleague Stefana Miladinovic said more as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The fact is that Serbia has great potential for the development of transport and passenger traffic on internal waters. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognises the importance of infrastructure investment in the Danube River, which primarily represents a very important transport corridor but is also important as a resource for development and regional tourism. The application in practice of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Navigation, on the one hand, of ports on internal waters will remove some concerns, and on the other hand will allow for the development of infrastructure, tourism and employment, and perhaps most importantly conditions or larger foreign investment will be created. For the town of Smederevo from which I come, it is particularly important that some of the changes are envisaged in the area of water safety, because the Danube is a long-standing black spot on the waterway across Europe, because of the river pirates of illegal trade in excise goods and other types of illegal trade. Consensus with the private security law will contribute to the repression of crime on the river because domestic shipping companies or ports are envisaged to organise security protection in the contractual engagement of entities licensed to carry out private security activities or as organised self-protective activity. Luka Smederevo has great importance for internal water transport, one of the largest loading and unloading sites in the Danube since 1996 and a port for international river traffic. This is where about three thousand ships land annually and overloads up to five million tons of raw materials and products. In addition to the great importance of transport traffic in the Danube, what is missing is certainly a port for tourist ships. The tourist potential of Smederev is largely based on cultural and historical sights. One of Europe's largest escalator fortresses is unique in Serbian medieval architecture as well as Villa Obrenovic built in 1831, but unfortunately remain completely invisible to foreigners travelling to the Danube because there is no port. I would like to stress that my town of Smederevo has the opportunity to become an important tourist destination, and at this point because of the poor river infrastructure in the part of the Danube through Serbia, in the length of 588km, tourist ships only agree in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Donji Milanovac, Velika Gradište and Bezdan. Some 500 large tourist ships pass through the Danube, and none of them come to our town because of the lack of an adequate port safe for ships and passengers, leaving Smederevo with no significant financial resources that could come from tourism. I'll remind you of a white fleet that in the 1970s was a symbol of improving the standard of living of all layers of society but a great pride for all citizens. River planes, which were then called ships that arrived from Belgrade to the Gerdapian gorge in about three and a half hours, were much faster than a regular bus line that took about six hours for the same route. These hydroglisers also arrived in our city when there were interested passengers. The White Fleet remained only in a good memory of the citizens of Smederev, since it has been no longer transporting passengers since 1986, and the port in Smederevo, which was built even before Belgrade, no longer meets the conditions for tourist ships. I hope that by applying this law and my town of Smederevo will get an attractive exit to the Danube, which will also contribute to the development of investments, to the exploitation of the great tourist potential, and thus also to a higher employment rate and a comprehensive improvement of the lives of Smederev citizens. For the sake of the citizens' truth, I would like to say that the Ponikave Airport was built during the period when the SPS dominated as Serbia's only ruling party and at that time the airport was also in function of civilian flights. The SPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law because of everything stated in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4493	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanovic, and let the People's Parliament of Danica Bukvic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4494	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and Assistants, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today at 15.00 hours I have been listening to my fellow opposition commenting on these drafts of the law, and I simply don't understand why opposition parties haven't been doing anything for this country for as long as they've had time. The fact is that the air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which today is a topic of discussion, is absolutely necessary and favourable for Serbia. We need an indicator that can be seen through statistics related to the economic development of the Republic of Korea that shows multiple growth, one now world economic power. Since the 1960s, the Republic of Korea has raised GDP from $87 to currently $26,000 and $300, or we have an increase of over 300. Also, I don't want to forget the fact that 33 million passengers pass through Seoul airport a year. Economic co-operation and trade between the Republic of Korea and Serbia amounted to over $120m in 2014, of which only $2.4m was exports from Serbia. By passing this law and by confirming this bilateral agreement, not only will trade exchanges increase in terms of increasing Serbia's own exports, but tourism is also the breadth and increase of the market network. By concluding this agreement, or Serbia is given regional importance, and just as Prime Minister Vukic has exhibited in his exhibition, the aim is to improve our aviation market in line with best practice, as well as to promote Belgrade in the main traffic hub of the region, increase Serbia's integration with the international market and speed up economic development. According to the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea, Mr. Lee, a great opportunity for future investment and Serbia's desire to be part of the EU. This agreement will allow for a reduction in the geographical distance of 8.261 km between Seoul and Belgrade, i.e. Serbia will connect with the east just as it has connected with the west, and I remind you that this year we have introduced a flight to New York, 23 June, the first direct flight to Belgrade – New York where many countries from the region have envied us. The airline registered an increase in key operational indicators that account for a net profit of 3.9m euros in the second full year of business, i.e. total revenue of 305m euros in 2015, which represents a 16% increase compared to 2014. The capacity of the network lines increased by 6% as well as the number of flights completed, which increased by eight percent and at the end of 2015 was 32,384 years. So this law will certainly, through the realisation of this agreement, greatly improve these results. Er Serbia is a proof of success. Evidence of the strategic partnership at work. It has made remarkable progress on the road to modernisation and sustainable profitability. The European market is very competitive, and with constant investment in product and service Er Serbia has developed a convincing offer for European passengers. It is also of great importance that after 10 years of moving to Zagreb, the Korean Agency for the Promotion of Trade and Investments "Kotra" reopened its representation in Serbia, or Belgrade. They are ready to support an increasing number of Korean companies interested in operating in Eastern Europe, but also to help local firms enter one of the most demanding markets in the world. Kotra has 124 business centres in 84 countries and is a global business platform aimed at contributing to the economic growth of South Korea itself, but also developing countries like Serbia. The opening of Kotra representations in Serbia is a clear sign to business people and companies from Korea that Serbia is a growing and fertile investment ground. It is an additional incentive for business people from both countries to improve co-operation. In the end, I'd like to say that I'm going to vote for this law. And I would like to congratulate the Government and the Honorable Minister on the great success and the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4495	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Danica Bukvić. Let MP Ivan Kostic be prepared. My colleague Bukvic, time for the remaining SPS parliamentary club to discuss is four minutes 52 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4496	Dear President-in-Office, respected Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, during today's debate concerning two traffic laws, I will be involved in a discussion on the confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Republic of Korea. My colleague, Snezana Paunovic, spoke about the importance of this agreement for both countries, and I would briefly refer to the content of the agreement itself. This bilateral agreement is based on the principles and standards laid down by the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which allows countries to sign bilateral and multilateral agreements on the establishment and operation of air traffic between the territories of signatories. Serbia is a signator of a significant number of bilateral agreements in the area of air traffic. One of the special arrangements is an agreement with Korea, which we are talking about today. The agreement with the Republic of Korea accurately identified all issues of importance for the safe conduct of passenger and freight air traffic between the two countries. I will mention several significant elements of this agreement. Therefore, the agreement confirmed that, firstly, each Contracting Party gives the Contracting Party the right provided for in this Agreement in order to carry out contracted air traffic on designated aircraft lines. Therefore, foreign signatories designate air carriers to carry air transport between Korea and Serbia, with both Contracting Parties issuing licences in accordance with air traffic regulations with respect to all obligations under the Convention on International Civil Aviation. What is very important is the agreement defines the obligations and rights of air carriers designated by the signatories' states to carry out contracted traffic between our two countries on established lines. I mention the most important rights - that they can fly without landing through the territory of another Party State, that they can land on the territory of the State of the other Party for non-commercial purposes, that they can land on the territory of the other Party in the places specified in the annex of this Agreement in order to board or land passengers, goods and mail, separately or in combination. The agreement also lays down state authorities to implement this agreement on behalf of the Signatory States. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, it is the Civil Aviation Directorate, and for the Republic of Korea, the Ministry of State, Infrastructure and Traffic. In both cases, it may be the other person or body authorised to perform functions which are now performed by those competent authorities in accordance with the laws and regulations of their countries. Both signatories have the right to board passengers, unload and unload goods and with several destinations, i.e. airports in one or another country. The Agreement also lays down the right of each party to, if it raises doubts about the fulfilment of contractual conditions, may withdraw or suspend a traffic authorisation or suspend the exercise of the right of a specific air carrier of another foreign Contracting Party. The Agreement also includes clauses relating to air safety and safety standards concerning crews, aircraft installations, aircrafts or their use. I have listed only some of your elements of this contract, but in general, this agreement in a comprehensive way determines bilateral relations between Serbia and Korea in the area of air traffic, and represents a quality legal and content basis for improving the overall relations of the two countries. Because without good traffic communication from our faraway countries, good business co-operation cannot be imagined, which is basically the goal of such agreements. For all of these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4497	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4498	Honorable legislators, MPs, the essence of this law is that the state is coming out of its jurisdiction and that some powers of the Waterway Directorate are taken away. That is also said in an analysis of the effects of the law in the first paragraph, where it is said to abolish its own monopoly position of the Waterway Directorate. I would like to ask a question – on what basis is it said that private businesses will better work on technical maintenance of waterways from this state-owned company? And based on what indicators is this measured and how will the effects of this work be measured? So it is normal and legitimate for the opposition to criticise certain bill proposals, especially since there is a very poor experience in privatising state-owned enterprises, especially in this area, which the minister also spoke of today. If the Chinese are our role models in many things, why, for example, We don't see how the Chinese operate and run state-owned companies? It is certain that there is a way for better management to preserve some of the competences of this company, not to give private persons to use the market for control of these flows and technical organisation of maintenance of waterways. Also, Article 267 or Article 44 of the amending law states that a fine of 150,000 dinars to 2 million dinars will punish a company or another legal person, under one, if it does not regulate and maintain its airworthiness. I'd like to know if anyone in the past three years, Madam Minister, since you've been in charge of this ministry, has been responsible for the state of wateriness of the Great Back Channel? For people who don't know, the Great Back Channel is currently the largest environmental bomb in Europe. The depth of the Great Baška Channel is 30 centimeters in the Vrbas municipality area and the canal is not sailed at a length of six kilometers. Since there are 960km of water in Vojvodina, the Great Baška Canal alone is 112km of waterway. So, I'd like to know when the Big Back Channel problem will be solved? The fact is that this Great Baba Channel was built in the early 18th century in eight years. We've been here for 15 years now, we can't solve this problem, and we're causing a huge disease of people in the municipalities of the Tower, Vrbas and the Srbobran. So I'd like to ask that question immediately to be resolved. I am also interested and believe that it is too high in Article 14 or in Article 2 of the amendment and the addition of the law, that Article 2 and Article 3 are identical and that in the case of the 3rd business of technical maintenance of national waterways on the territory of the autonomous province. I'd like to know why this word is unique, why aren't they autonomous provinces? I agree that there are no waterways in the area of Kosovo, but I am interested in why is the notion of an autonomous province in one law in law, if the law applies to the entire Republic of Serbia? Also, since everyone is congratulating something today, I would like to congratulate the fans of volleyball and congratulate the members of the Serbian volleyball union Assembly for replacing Mr Nenad Golian who did not know whether the Republic of Kosovo is a republic or is Kosovo part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4499	Thank you. First of all, I ask the Technical Service to collect the cards of the Members who are registered, and at the moment they are not in the O.R. Please do. Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4500	Thank you very much. The purpose of adopting this law, as I said, is, among other things, that in the field of technical maintenance of international and interstate waterways, we have more efficiency and that through a public call or tender we open it up for other companies. You asked the question – how do we know that private companies that get that job will be better? I really don't know if private companies are going to get that job and no one here can know whether they're going to get private or get state-owned companies, but one thing's for sure, which is that it's going to be a public call, completely transparent, that those who can meet the conditions will come forward and that we will certainly get much better conditions, a better quality technical maintenance that is really very important to us. On the other hand, that doesn't mean that the state is out of its jurisdiction, as you said. Far from that, the state is there to make the conditions, the state is there to create projects, the state is there to monitor, and we have no problem that those who can meet the conditions, whether they're state or private enterprises, get that job. So no one here today can say that this job will exclusively work for private companies. Also, why we're tied to the most developed, so we're bonding right now, so we're bonding to the ones who are the best. The Netherlands is in the first place by the development of its port work, and it's logical to be attached to those who do it the best way. That's, say, Holland, Germany, etc. So, the most developed countries. With China, we cannot compare ourselves in this sense, although I have great respect and I believe that our relations with China and everything we do with the Chinese state is of great importance in infrastructure, but specifically here, when we speak, they have no experience with other types of company, with another kind of ownership so that we can consult and work with them in that sense. The large bacca canal, which you mention, is in the power of the "Voda Vojvodine" and I am very glad that the government has changed and that we have a completely different government and I am sure, because I know the situation in the Great Bako Channel, that this and how it will begin to solve itself as soon as possible, because it is a serious problem, although it is in Vojvodina's jurisdiction, for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4501	Thank you. The People's MP Branimir Rancic has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Đuric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4502	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Ms. Mihajlovic, respected guests from the Ministry, respected Members of Parliament, as a doctor who studied and took part in the case of hygiene of traffic hygiene, I will not comment on the whole bill, but I will only talk about members of the law relating to environmental protection and criminal policy, which is accompanied by those members, from Articles 44 to 49, where amendments are prescribed. 267, 270, 271, 276, 277, and 278, laws governing violations. This is very important because of Chapter 27 relating to environmental protection and in all laws dealing with this issue, and this issue must be asked and answered in accordance with EU requirements and principles. EU environmental policy aims to promote sustainable development and preserve the environment for the current and future generations. It is based on the principle of preventive action, before damage or pollution occurs, on the principle that the polluter pays environmental costs, whether it is a legal or natural person, in the fight against environmental damage at the very source of pollution. In fact, the Union's environmental regulations are the level below which a free competition cannot take place. This makes EU environmental policy indivisible from its economic policy, internal market policy and common trade policy, competitiveness and energy security. Legal fluid also covers rules relating to specific areas, such as water, air quality protection, climate change, sustainable waste management, chemical control, etc. Then, too, there is an obligation to control the transmission of dangerous substances in water. On the basis of a review of the provisions of the applicable law amending, or supplementing them, the amendment of Article 63, which becomes a Article 11 of the Law, is prescribed to prohibit the use of mobile storage facilities placed on decks, as storage facilities for the collection of waste oils, as well as the introduction into the bilge of the machinery space of the cleaning product that dissolves oil or oil and emulsifiers, other than products which do not make it difficult to clean waste water from bilge at reception stations. The Minister, which is you, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of environmental protection affairs and the Minister in charge of water affairs, prescribe measures that are meant to prevent pollution. In this way, rivers, which are the blood flow of one country and the EU, are protected from pollution, i.e., medically speaking, under the assumption that they are from an atherosclerotic process or, to be more concrete, they are not like in ancient Rome. The penalty Article 267 is amended in Article 44, Article 270 is amended in Article 45, and Article 271 in Article 46, where fines ranging from 20,000 to 150,000 are defined, from 30,000 to 150,000 and from 150,000 to 2 million are defined. In order to implement this law, it is necessary to adopt a regulation on the prevention of internal water pollution caused by navigation by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the water transport and safety sectors. The deadline for adoption is one year from the entry into force of this law. Finally, environmental pollution is an incurable disease that can only be prevented preventively, so the motto of my exposure – we will not have company if we destroy the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4503	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Djuric has the word, and let the Messenger Srdjan Nogo be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4504	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, congratulations on your endurance. If anyone's looking at us in a direct transmission, I also congratulate them. It's mostly 13 or 14 hours. I've already stopped measuring. I don't know why our exceptions always turn into rules, like we're in a state of emergency, but I guess it's some sort of assembly management system and the assembly degradation system. At the beginning of my presentation, one small reminder of all the harmful consequences of the public interest that has brought the privatisation of Luke Belgrade. The president of the Anti-Corruption Council, the late Verica Barac, sent a letter to President Boris Tadic, who was informed that no state body had taken measures to prevent the negative effects of the ownership concentration in Lucy Belgrade, which the Council warned of. The letter noted that by selling Luke Belgrade in 2005, by privatising other ports in Serbia and by adopting the Law on Planning and Construction, a condition was created that practically the entire port land in Serbia, except for now only the Novosad port is converted into private property. The letter states that the fact that the process of conversion, the rights of use of land in the right of property began before the adoption of the Law on Public Property and the Law on Ports, i.e. it has not yet established what land is in public use, or what is port land. It is possible for port owners to make land conversion, and it also makes use of practically private property. Verica Barac also stated that such plans by port owners fully go hand in hand and change the general urban plan, which was adopted in 2009 by the Belgrade City Assembly. This, of course, is not a sin of this government, but the new government cannot be rehabilitated because of the inaction of the current government, that this sin is corrected or, at least in some way, cultured more. There can be no excuse that the situation after taking over the government is the reason why the continued public property over the land is converted into city building land. The new government took over Serbia four years ago and should no longer blame any previous government for its actions or indemnity. The exposé of Prime Minister Vukic, concerning the law we are dealing with today, noted that the basic goal of developing river ports is to look at the modernisation of all traffic hubs, to make the overall traffic system of the Republic of Serbia competitive than it is today. It noted that this goal will first be achieved by opening the port services market for new European, world and domestic port operators, various foreign port operators, for Luka Novi Sad, for the new Luka Belgrade, for Luka in Smederev, public private partnership systems, etc. But we are interested in who is or who will own or co-owner all these new ports and under what conditions and what happens to existing port land? Does it become city-building, for which owners and under what conditions? So far we know that only Luka Novi Sad is not privatized by all the ports we have on our waterways, the Danube, the Tissi, the Savi, but we see from the exposé that this is one of the next privatisations. It is mentioned that land and infrastructure will not be the subject of privatization of ports, but I don't know why we would trust the government that we won't be in a situation like the other day for Smedereva, that we're bringing some Lex specialis about the recognition of the right of service over land whose property is undefined and similar things. Furthermore, by realising the project "Belgrade on Water", the Sava River, which is an international waterway, we are practically shutting down from the interior water navigation system for the following reasons: for an international waterway, a standard minimum width of 120 metres between the bridge pillars and at least 12 metres of bridge altitude above the level of large waters must be provided. Some of the interventions under the project "Belgrade on Water" change significantly the character of the river flow, which will negatively reflect its character as a water river. The planned walking bridge, located high above the water, with many pillars and arches, a small range, completely removes Sava as a waterway, and the planned tower of about 50 metres enters the riverbed, and this position causes water flow disturbances, maneuvers of ships and barges as well as defenses against ice. I must stress that the observations on this issue may have a very different character if the project in question were not based on a 3D model, but on serious projects with all necessary technical parameters. Since that is not the case, the bill before us will practically not cover the Sava River in the system of international waterways. Article 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on inland waters, provides that the transportation of yachts or recreational vessels based on the rental mark on internal waters may be performed only by yacht or boat for the recreation of domestic statehood, therefore, under the Serbian flag, which is owned by a domestic legal or natural person registered for the work of renting yachts or recreational vessels. Why are we making it impossible to rent yachts of recreational vessels under a foreign flag? Why are we making it impossible to rent yachts of recreational vessels owned abroad? Is that how we develop yachting tourism? Protectionism? We think our fleet is big enough and developed, so we can only limit ourselves to it? I'm not sure that's the case. Of course, we understand the need for this activity to be regulated so that the state would not be denied from these jobs for taxes from chartering, taxes and contributions to the employees of the crew, but we believe that this work needed to be regulated differently, in order to act stimulatingly and to create preconditions for other fiscal incomes, rather than closing unilaterally in protectionist frameworks, a restrictive solution made over the knee. According to the Government, such a solution is proposed because the rental of yachts and recreational vessels not included in domestic registers of vessels has been observed, are already registered abroad, and are often rented without crews. So why didn't we prescribe registering ino vessels to do a chartering business here and collect fiscal income from it? The reasoning also said that the country's comparative law in the environment provides for solutions that yachts and recreational vessels must sail under the flag of a country in which the renting activity is carried out. For example, Croatia and Montenegro are listed. I have to say, this is simply not true. Why, for the second time in a short time in proposing legal solutions, does the government call for prominent examples from abroad? The same was recently done with the Law on the financing of local self-government, when we clearly showed through the debate that in Scandinavian countries over 80%, and around 100% of the profit tax remains local self-government. I'll give you concrete examples. According to Article 45 of the Montenegrin Yachts Act, a charter entrepreneur is registered in Montenegro, a yacht can be rented under a domestic but foreign flag. The legal condition for placing a yacht in a charter under a foreign flag is to pay a one-time annual fee of 1,500 to 10,000 euros in addition to the vignettes. The high fee, by the way, says that in Montenegro, shipmakers are mass excitating, and the state is being rather tolerated about it. The reasons for this can be different, one of them may be an unreasonable height of fiscal or parafiscal intent in which I believe our country has a lot of experience. According to catalogues, one of the larger companies operating in Spain, Montenegro, Croatia, in Montenegro this summer was based on seven larger sailboats and motor yachts under the foreign flag for chartering, so to rent in Montenegro. In Croatia, for example, it is in force, I will quote a regulation; "the instructions for the conduct of charter companies that intend to carry out charter activities by foreign yachts and boats, prescribed by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In particular, conditions are laid down for EU flag vessels, and in particular for sub-flags of third countries. Of course, standards of the prescribed rules for the constitutional certification of yachts and boats under the Croatian flag are required." So, at least what is prescribed for Croatian flag vessels. It is explicitly stated, I quote: "A charter can also be carried out by yachts that wind the flag of a third country whose hull length is greater than 40 metres, if it has a cabotage approval". The proposed solution seems extremely restrictive and as I said, protectionistly brought over the knee. Foreign ships that might have come to some of our marinas and offered to issue from our marinas, perhaps some foreign tourists who would have wanted to start sailing right out of some of our marinas. But finally, most of all, in this case, the untrue appeal to foreign practice as a front for the fact that life always goes ahead of us, and unfortunately, by legal solutions, we are chasing it clumsyly and unsuccessfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4505	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4506	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The aim of amending and supplementing the law is, above all, to bring the existing law into line with the Law on Private Security and the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, as well as to regulate certain issues that have not been settled so far, or to detect deficiencies in the application of the existing law. Studying the proposed amendments and additions to the laws can identify four objectives to which the law applies, under one suspension of the monopoly position of the Waterway Directorate, which it has so far had in the conduct of the technical maintenance of interstates and international roads, a monopoly character. The Waterway Directorate in the past has been having a major problem fulfilling its obligations, primarily for objective reasons, because the fleet of ships is 40 years old and older. Part of the budget money that is intended to maintain waterways goes to remont ships, as well as to the salaries of crew members. This law also employs a private sector which will be able to carry out those obligations on technical maintenance of waterways more quickly and at less cost. The analysis found that there are specialized companies on the market that will be able to meet both human and technical requirements. The Waterway Directorate would take on expert supervision of the performance of these works in order to meet all the required waterway parameters, as well as the conduct of the tender, i.e. public calls for the establishment of the contractor. The second objective achieved by this law, this amendment and the amendments to the law, refers to the rental of yachts and recreational vessels. Between 200 and 300 of these vessels, according to my information, sails our waters. They're registered abroad, and they sail on our waters under other people's flags. This way, the budget is also damaged because tax revenues are not realised. Also, no contributions are paid for crew members. This brings them into an unequal position and vessels that are registered and sail under our flag. The bill provides that only vessels registered in one of the home registers of a vessel can be rented and that it is not possible to rent a vessel without a crew, thus increasing the safety of all service users and creating additional revenues to Serbia's budget. The third objective is to address the security of harmonisation of the Law on Inland port navigation with the Private Security Act. The application of the provisions of this law will allow for raising the level of security in water traffic, as well as preventing the execution of criminal acts, such as theft, piracy and smuggling. Finally, the fourth objective to be achieved by this law is that a legal possibility has been found to recognise, in accordance with the legal system, the right to carry out port operations and companies which by their own means built port infrastructure before 2003 and before the entry into force of the concession law itself. I must express my satisfaction that although there was no legal obligation to conduct a public debate, the ministry held public consultations in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in September this year with all relevant participants interested in the application of this law. In the day for the vote, I will support the proposal to amend and supplement the proposal for a Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4507	Thank you. The word has a National MP Branislav Mihajlovic, and let the MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4508	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda today, in fact, two traffic laws are on the agenda today, and one law in the field of water traffic and one air traffic law. Traffic, by the way, as an economic branch, is very important from the aspect of improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens, from the aspect of increasing employment, and of course it is also important from the aspect of the negotiations that we are having with the EU, as regards Chapter 14, that is, chapters relating to transport policy. First, I must commend that the value of a law is measured and that it is timed in reality. The first law relating to amendments and additions to the Law on port navigation on inland waters is significant from this aspect which in the short period of time are perceived shortcomings and, of course, the best law if it is not enforceable in practice it becomes a dead letter on paper. In this sense, these amendments and additions to the Law are quite significant because the law should actually meet living conditions and realities. This law is significant because it first introduces competition on clear and transparent conditions through the use of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. through the use of tendering for those highly specialised companies that specialize in the construction of hydrotechnical facilities, but also in the business of other hydrotechnical and baggeric works. For this reason and for reasons of encouraging competition, these amendments and additions to the law are significant. The amendments and additions of this law are also important from both the security and security aspects of both the port and the commercial shipping companies, which relate to the involvement of licensed private security operators. These amendments to the law are also significant from the aspect of the harmonisation of this law with the laws that have been passed in the meantime, which are the Law on Private Security, the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, as well as the Law on Infringements in the range of infringements imposed by amendments and additions to this law are also foreseen. This law is also important for the reasons why amendments and additions have been made and based on the parallel legislation of neighbouring countries which have experience in chartering and are primarily the laws of the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania, and the provisions of the law are in fact related to the reduction of the grey economy and to strict compliance with tax regulations, primarily in terms of the registration of yachts in the unique register of vessels in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, to the payment of taxes on the income of persons employed as members of the crew. The amendments and additions of this law are also important from the point of view of taking emergency protection measures when it comes to shipping accidents, and this is the obligation of shipping companies that are obliged to adopt an emergency protection plan both for victims and for their families, as regards accommodation, transport and medical services to victims, which is, of course, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Air, Railway and Water Traffic. I must also point out the high merits of the Department of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure for the adoption of a strategic document for the development of water traffic for a 10-year period, but also for the adoption of an action plan for a five-year period, with a clear increase in water traffic by 30%, where the renewal of the fleet is also specified and strict respect for environmental standards. I must say that the strategy provides for the development of container traffic which is very important for the development of water traffic, but which is also very important from the aspect of our goods, the export of our goods because water traffic is the cheapest and our goods are automatically becoming competitive on the EU market. I would also like to point out that the river information system has already been provided for container traffic, that only in the transport sector are projects worth four billion euros, that much has been invested in infrastructure and improvement of all other infrastructure facilities, starting with roads, railways, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4509	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Ševlić has the word. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP Sanja Pavlovic. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. He gave up. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Radojcic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4510	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, stands before us today on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The law is passed in order to achieve an accelerated development of water traffic and to complete the start of a legislative reform of the port management system. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law regulates the area of technical maintenance of waterways differently. The legal monopoly, which according to the current Law of the Republic of Serbia, has a Waterways Directorate for the operation of technical maintenance of international and interstate routes, is hereby abolished. The Waterway Directorate under the applicable law is the only one authorised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to carry out these tasks. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law introduces that the private sector is involved in the performance of these transactions. The amendments and additions of this law encourage the creation of new economic operators, the development of existing ones, the strengthening of competition and the possibility of attracting foreign capital. This is how one of the clearly defined objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is achieved, which is to create favourable conditions for the business of the private sector. Also, this legislative proposal aims to raise the level of security in water traffic, as well as to prevent criminal acts such as theft and piracy. Basically, there are two models based on which to settle questions in this area. It is the first one in which the Republic of Serbia is currently managing this area, which is that there is one competent state body, that it is financed by funds from the budget and that it is carrying out all the tasks of technical maintenance of waterways. The second model is when there is one competent state authority that sets standards for technical maintenance, conducts public procurement, and only performs physical works to specialised firms on the market, and that is exactly the model proposed by the proposed amendments and additions of this law. So far, we have had the situation that the Waterway Directorate's funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are mostly invested in paying crew members and technical maintenance of the ship's regularity, or fleet, which we have heard is in very poor condition and in which years it has not been invested. Therefore, the fact is that the Waterway Directorate has not invested enough resources for a number of years to carry out certain technical maintenance operations. The proposed changes and additions to this law will be used exclusively to finance the implementation of the work of technical maintenance of international and inter-state routes by the Waterway Directorate from the Republic of Serbia and thus the Republic of Serbia will meet its international obligation to maintain the prescribed waterway parameters for smooth navigation. Today, there are a large number of specialized companies that can do these jobs faster and more efficiently, but under the professional supervision of the Water Directorate, as proposed by amendments and additions to this law. On the other hand, the opening of opportunities for participation in the private sector is. These operations will be carried out at a much lower cost, as private companies themselves will finance the costs of crew members, as well as the costs of maintenance of vessels, i.e. they will provide the funds by performing the tasks offered on the market. In financial terms, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law will have an impact on certain companies that provide services in certifiers, i.e. renting yachts and recreational vessels, which are not registered in Serbia, are already registered abroad. It doesn't take much to touch us, since it's about imposing costs on non-domestic companies. By being registered abroad and sailing under the flag of foreign states, they are not subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, so that they avoid paying taxes, which is why the Republic of Serbia loses significant revenues. By adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing this law, these companies will have an obligation to register in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and given that there is an estimated number of such companies, certain funds, or significant funds, will be pooled into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, companies already operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are placed in a level playing field with these economic operators and thus become competitive. The amendments and additions also require shipowners to make their own emergency plans to assist victims in the event of inland water accidents, and this is about harmonising with the Air, Railway and Water Traffic Law, as well as compliance with Article 5. Regulations on emergency assistance to victims and their families in the event of an accident in traffic, as well as compliance with European Union regulations. From a financial point of view, these changes and additions will cause certain costs to the shipowners, but I must stress that it is costs that are not significant, given that they are making internal plans and that for drawing up such plans they can hire people who are already employed by them. Shipbuilding companies and ports will be obliged to organise security protection by hiring persons who are licensed to carry out private security activities and this obligation, the companies already have in accordance with the Private Security Act, so that it should not be considered as an additional imposition to companies, but simply as compliance with the law in force. Finally, I would like to send my congratulations to the Vice-President of the Government and to the Minister for Advocacy in the work of the Ministry which is leading and calling on all Members of Parliament to support the proposed amendments and additions to this Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4511	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4512	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are also discussing the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, which follows efforts to further improve bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries, the opening of the Office of Kotram, the Korean Agency for Promotion of Trade and Investment, in December 2015 and the signing of a Double Taxation Agreement in January of this year. Serbia has signed air traffic agreements with 87 countries around the world, with 37 of which it has a multilateral agreement on a common European aviation area. From the "Nikola Tesla" airport, 19 companies that fly directly to 47 cities in Europe and Asia. Last year alone, more than 4.7 million passengers passed through the Surcin airport. South Korea is primarily based on investment in education, high percentage of academically educated people and strong industry with world-renowned companies, such as ‘Samsung’, ‘LG’, ‘Hundai’, ‘Kia’, due to its rapid economic growth. The agreement will allow better integration in the areas of aviation, as well as the establishment of direct flights between the two countries up to three times a week. The distance between Belgrade and Seoul is 8,300km, and the possible introduction of direct flights would shorten travel time from the existing 20 to 11 to 12 hours. The possibilities provided for by this agreement for air carriers and passengers will mean better connections and greater air traffic choices between Serbia and South Korea and will encourage further improvement of bilateral co-operation, especially in the area of economy, tourism and education. With this agreement, as well as other air traffic agreements and laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia seeks to achieve the goal set by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic in his exposé, which is to improve Serbia's air market in line with best international practice, developing Belgrade as one of the key regional air traffic centres, improving Serbia's integration with the international market and speeding up Serbia's economic development and the value they gain for money by Serbian taxpayers. I'm sure you'll succeed. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the agreement in voting day, as well as a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4513	The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4514	Dear Madam Minister, honourable MPs, I will speak of something that no one has spoken of tonight. I'll talk about this Port Management Agency. The Agency was established by the Government Decision 2013. This year, the agency ended up with a surplus of 43 million 90 thousand 728 dinars. The money will be transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget this week. That same agency of 10. 04. In 2015, when the Government decided to charge the tariff, it invoiced 229,792.094,80 dinars and from that the Agency charged 193,138,913,86 dinars, which is 84.04%. On the other hand, the Agency has vinetted a load of 8,127,166,51 tonnes. As regards the Agency’s results, in 2015 and 2016, the Agency received 150 requests for the identification of port areas and for the authorisation to carry out port operations. Positively solved about 50 cases. Now I'm talking to Madam Minister, to see a member of the 53rd Amendment and additions to the Law. 'Cause it seems to me that's where the retroactiveness was introduced. If that's true, look again, but if that's true, it wouldn't be good, because you know that any retroactivity is against the law. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4515	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4516	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister with your associates, above all, to welcome your presence here today and your whole-day stay with us, as well as answering our questions, I especially want to highlight this from the corner of the Parliament Group "Doveri", because you are the first minister in this government to answer our questions and I am truly grateful to you for that. The other ministers were mostly deaf and avoided answering our questions, from which I concluded that we were right about everything we said – that they had no answer to our questions. Thank you. In your answer you also opened several topics that I wanted to highlight in this short time remaining, and these topics are, as you have explained, the reason why a certain part of the work that has done so far is being handed over to certain companies that will compete in tenders. You said it was about keeping those jobs done by the Directorate so far, and in that sense, I'm interested in you explaining to me once again what motive it was, because you in the reasoning of Article 2. The law provides for the possibility of individual transactions from the Waterway Directorate's work to be left to private companies on the market, with a view to reducing costs and more efficient performance of these operations. You mentioned one more thing -- a budget, which is, like, a problem with the allocation of funds for these costs and liabilities, but I don't see what changes there by entrusting it to private businesses that are going to do the job? So you have to have that budget. Surely private or state-owned enterprises will not work on their cost of maintaining waterways. So you have to have that budget, or you won't have it again, so that job will certainly not work. So this is where the question arises – is there a budget for these jobs or not? If there is, then why couldn't that budget co-exist the Waterway Directorate? If he's gone, he won't have it again and it doesn't matter who you're sharing with to do the maintenance. So the first question is, is there a budget for these jobs or not? You mentioned, too, that one of the best companies, that's what I'm glad to hear, in the area of waterway maintenance is exactly one state, or domestic, or state-owned company, but that doesn't mean she'll get a job in the tender. Because some company that's more favourable for a single dollar in that tender might get that job, and that's how a state-owned company is gonna lose their jobs. Does that mean anything that she's the best? It doesn't mean anything. We had so many situations in Serbia where companies were being set up by competing in a tender for one less price. You think someone accidentally gave one dollar less price? Well, of course she leaked information about what a tender offer is from a state-owned firm, which means that someone is constantly ratting out state-owned firms in tenders, giving that information to private firms and private firms gradually taking jobs to state-owned companies. Here's your biggest example: "Lasta". Lasta has lost a number of lines of its transport routes across Europe, and even domestic traffic within Serbia, precisely because they have set up tenders for a private company, I am not now entering whether yours, party, etc. were getting the job for a dinar more favourable offer than "Lasta". It is obvious that someone from Lasta's management snitched on their offer and provided that information to private companies that received it in the tender. What I'm saying is, you don't have a model to protect a state-owned company from collapse. That's what I'm interested in in in this amendment of yours and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4517	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4518	I mean, I'm sorry, now I have to say, I can sometimes understand why it doesn't suit you, because in one sentence you mix five things. But let's do this. So, you said, quote you, that the Directorate is surrendering to the hands of certain private companies that will win in the tender. So, really, first of all, I don't know, I don't understand the statement. There's no hand in hand, no hand in hand, no hand in hand. The Directorate exists, there will still be and how it will work. All these people who are in the Directorate will do their job by doing their job, I repeat again with a single and river information system and projecting, and above all, surveillance. So, technical maintenance, we're going to let public calls, possibly involve other and private and state-owned companies that can do it better and better than the Directorate can do today, because the equipment the Directorate has got at its disposal is really very outdated. So, some other state-owned companies, I mentioned I was a PIN or some other private companies that could do it in a better and more efficient way, if they get a job on a public call and a tender, why don't they do it? That doesn't mean that the Directorate doesn't exist and that it's shutting down, or that it's handing over to someone else's Directorate. I mean, that's really not true. Then, you also said, about the maintenance money. The amount of money we now have to maintain, so just over 150 million, or possibly around 180 million, will be given and will be the subject of technical maintenance of those who, on a public call, tender, will receive this job in a transparent manner. I repeat once again, the equipment some other companies have at their disposal is much better and better quality than the current equipment of the Directorate itself, and so far that is so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4519	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4520	Thank you. First I'm thrilled that we're all sitting together today, this is a special day, as SRS MPs have said. And secondly, I have to surprise you, since the Minister knows when we're going to keep working, and we don't know when we're going to continue, on Tuesday, by the amendments, so thank you for the information, ma'am. I want to congratulate you at the beginning and on the Duing Business List, first of all your credit for building permits from 152nd to 36th place and moving to 47th place in Serbia, by saying that Croatia is 43, Bulgaria 39, Romania 36, and Macedonia 10th on that same list. I wasn't sure who I was talking to tonight, because you're the only one of the government's representatives, including the candidate, the prime minister, who mentioned the previous government, DS and some previous government, etc., that nothing in life has ever done, as if this government had been created before the amoeba, and then the fish formed, and the spineless, and then the vertebrates, and then all the rest of them... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Pa Micunović. )......................................................................................................... Then Micun, then Desimir Tosic, and then they came to power again with the SNS. You, ma'am, have been a part of this government for many years as a G17 plus, and you shouldn't be ashamed of it. Let's get back to the law. I only talked about the law for 18 minutes. It is obvious that this law has shortcomings and that it has precisely intended things to do with the privatisation of Luke in Novi Sad, and we will see that very soon. What is the problem is that you did not convince me exactly what law on physical-technical security and a regulation that was not passed by the government, which must be passed, and this is clearly explained to you by the SRS MP that this regulation has not been adopted. Where does it say that it's an obligation for shipping companies to have that security? I'd like you to quote me the point of the law and we didn't get that thing straight. If we don't have money today for the Directorate to do our jobs, and for the Directorate they've worked before, "Ivan Milutinović" and they've been doing "Sremska Mitrovica Regulations" and various other firms, how will we now provide funds to clean and maintain waterways and how are they related to the defence against floods? If you have a muddy trough, then you have a problem with high water, and then that's the problem with Serbia's water business, and this is a tightly bound area. I'd like this law to be like you said, but I expect that in a few months, we'll get an amendment to the law, primarily because of the main theme of this law, and that's obviously Luke's privatisation in New Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4521	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4522	First, to thank you for your congratulations on the Duing Business List, it is the merit of this government and the great work of many ministries. When you mention the rank of some other states, to remind you that the rank of Serbia is the moment the government of Alexander Vukic was formed in 2014, we were the 91st country since 186, which were then seen. All these countries you mentioned in the region were at least 30, 40 and 50 places in better places than Serbia. So that's how we started. We started in the situation that you left us, when Macedonia was 12, Croatia was thinking forty and let, etc., all those countries you mentioned now. Serbia, therefore, managed to be better than 150 countries in construction licenses only in two years, from the current 190 seen. So, yes, yes, this is the result of this government and the result of the reforms being carried out. When you're talking about privatizing Luke Novi Sad, you're probably starting from everything the DS used to do, so you can't get rid of that impression and that way of privatization, so you think something's been arranged in advance and that's how privatisation is going to be done. The privatisation of Luke Novi Sad is public, transparent and transparent. There is no privatisation of land, no privatisation of infrastructure, there will be investment contracts in Luci Novi Sad and it will be one more modern and more developed port than it is today, because it is the interest of the state of Serbia, not of any private interests that existed during your period. Whether I convinced you or not, it is less important than what the citizens of Serbia see doing every day and how this government works. Thank you very much for everything you've said so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4523	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Kiriq? (Goran Ciric, from the place: DS is mentioned. You have two problems, Mr. Kiric, first, which has no basis for replication. Second of all, you have no right to a replica. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: The mention is DS. I'm sorry. First, your authority is here. The second thing, is the said DS. It is said only, the question is asked – do you have a problem with your past when you talk about setting up a tender? That's all. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4524	You have violated article 107 and the dignity of the National Assembly, because you really do not show the same attitude towards all MPs both positions and opposition. I'm looking at the views of all my fellow MPs on the other side and I don't know why so nervous, so eager to hear voices and arguments against what she said and said by the minister mentioning the DS more than once. The continued mention of DS and privatisation, and especially since 2004, when the government acted as G17, in which the minister was present and mentioned, when 24 privatisations were mentioned as the most problematic precisely in the period between 2004... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4525	Mr. Kiric, in accordance with Article 109, I give you a notice regarding Article 103, in accordance with Article 109, because you have misused the right to the Rules of Procedure and entered the replica, to finalize. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: You violated the Businessman because you did not give me the replica. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4526	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Ports and Inland Waters Act, I don't know, I have to ask, I don't have a fellow farmer here, are Maldives internal water or...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4527	The theme, Mr. Risticevic. Start with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4528	Well, of course I started on the law, on ports and inland waters. Now I ask, since the aggression against Maldives has been committed by the party of the former regime – are the Maldives internal or external water? But, my God, I wish I were in their time, unlike them, I wish we had made progress on this Duing List, if we hadn't been 91st. I'd like to say hello. I'd be wearing them on my back, carrying them on these waterways, at least swimming and carrying on my back a whole party of the former regime if only they were under 90th place, not 91st on that list. At that time, as I remember these waterways, and water and hunting, there was everything and everything, there were two lists. One was for those of us who worked, and the other was for those who ruled. They were sailing on yachts, and we pushed it somehow with our work. This 10th on yachts refers most likely to them, as the minister expects them to register it here for patriotic reasons, so at least let them at least deal with renting. I believe they have something to rent. We don't have a boat. We don't have a boat. We don't have a boat. There were two lists. One was that dinging, and the other was taping. That's why at some point I think, when I talk about the Inland Waters Act and the Ports Act, the former regime's party was put together by a judicial caller. If it had anything to do with ships and ports, says their former president... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Is this the topic of the agenda? I don't understand what these screams are. I'm not saying anything that they didn't say themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4529	Excuse me, Mr. Risticevic, a warning may be given to the MP if he interferes with the other MPs during the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4530	You don't have to. If you say it, don't say it, be it in beer. So they can't distract me, a wise man can't be easily distracted. Here, someone's laughing over there. You know who can recognize a wise man? Only one who's wise. I don't expect them to recognize it. They don't know that. I expect they're just making progress on that other list. I'd love to talk about them best, but they didn't give me a reason. I can't in my speeches, my speech is like a mirror, as a mirror I brought to a party of the former regime, hence so much noise, and when we talk about boats and ports and yachts, and those yachts that go to Maldives, which aren't here to be betrayed by Article 10, where you eat lobsters and here you sit and burp in front of the poor girl you made...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4531	Mr. Risticevic, please talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4532	I'm talking about waterways. Mr. Chairman, may I speak of ships? I'm not going to mention that crazy ship Mr. Bojan Pajtic mentioned when he was president of that crazy ship, I'm not going to mention it. I didn't make anything up. I'm talking about some of those waterways biting lobsters, going to Maldives. So these were the waterways. It's because they're burping in front of the poor girl they've robbed and won as long as these others have lost everything, so it's not my fault, it's the yacht, it's the sailing, it's the ports, the suspicious ports, etc. That's why I welcome all the new roads, because they're being transported by people, by goods. They only went out with tourist reasons, and I think they have strong agricultural reasons for this. This year we have a ship of eight million tons of corn and something more. It's going to be over three and a half to four million tons because they destroyed our cattle stock, so now we have to export corn. I wish we could export the finished products, but we can't, the industry they left behind was negligible. Now they don't like it when I talk about it, when I bring the mirror, they don't like what they see in the mirror. They blame themselves for their deeds and their Sundays. So we have to export corn, export cattle. I'd like to export cans, I'd like to export dried-meat products, but my God, they haven't left any industry and then those who are responsible for it, who have so beautifully robbed us now talk about how they're going to protect the corrupt. I welcome all the roads, the airways, the waterways, I welcome the railways, but I would like to carry as many of our goods and as many of our workers as possible, and to be transported for tourist purposes, so that we see the white world, too, that we may see these Maldives, because what they occupied doesn't mean that we don't have the right to see. We will look to earn it, not to kidnap it, like they did, and so I think it's time for as many goods and as many of our passengers as possible to transport, first of all, workers, to bring each and every one of them, to make what farmers produce by energy processing that can be produced from renewable sources, also from agriculture and to create bread and work for everyone. They didn't leave behind, except for themselves, no space for anyone, for the state to be equal, for the state to be able to guarantee to the people who created it to work honestly and to live with dignity from that honest work. They didn't have it, and that's why I welcome all the roads. For the safety of passengers, our biggest sites are Jasenovac, Jadovno, Kragujevac and the Ibar highway. Every time, he was watery, airy, he was a railroad, I'd say hello because the roads connect. The roads connect people, the roads connect the economy. What I'd like is for more goods to come out of our country, and for less to enter, to have surpluses, coverage of exports, perhaps thanks to the transport of this goods. We certainly didn't export the goods produced by this group. It would be empty barges, empty paws, etc. So the stake wasn't sewn up. I welcome all those who have sweated, who have made with their sweaty hands some goods that we export and thanks to which this country has survived. These waterways will contribute to making our import-export coverage even more than seventy-seven percent as much as it is now, in their time it was barely 51, 52%, which means that this country has started to produce goods seriously and to export them and made these waterways money so that people can live on it. The goods are money and I think they're in the production of salvation. The ship that I once wanted to sink, immerse myself, there's no salvation, the crew won't throw the money out of their pockets, it sinks because of that weight, from there everyone who's smart escapes, there's no salvation. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4533	On what basis, Mr. Kiric? (Goran Ćirić, from the place: DS is mentioned. ) No, the ex-president of the DS was quoted, who said he wouldn't, Bojan Pajtic, was quoted as former DS President, which I say is something about some crazy ship. (Goran Ciric, from the scene: I recognized myself on that crazy ship. You recognize yourself being on a crazy ship? I can't recognize you in that. Does anyone else want a word from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Please, when was the DS mentioned? [[(Goran Ćirić, from the place: DS is mentioned. I'm looking for a replica.]] (Goran Ciric, from the post: Now you said it was mentioned. You want to replicate to me? (Goran Ciric, from the place: You said it yourself. Because it's quoted? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Bojan Pajtic is mentioned. Aman, don't make any more jokes. So someone's quoting your former president, and that's your basis for replication? Radoslav Milojic throws it away. Here's your current president, no, I don't need to study. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4534	Thank you. Chairman, if I may continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4535	Please continue, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4536	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first make an impression to point out. It seems to me that some people are bothered by the jump we mentioned earlier today, a jump on the world’s “Ding List, ” as if some are wrong about it. One authorised representative just a few minutes ago tried to belittle it in some way. An authorised representative who, if I'm not mistaken, changed some parties, so he was in the SPO, so he was in the Civil League of Serbia, so I guess now he's in the DS, I don't know exactly what aggregate condition, but in any case, I have to ask, at what time were we on the world's Dug List? Does he even know if he was interested in it at all at the time, but in order not to waste my time on it, simply when today's discussion is over, there have been many different things, the most different criticisms. Well, it's being criticised even though it's privatisation, so there's been criticism if there's no privatisation, so the monopoly's being criticised, so it's being criticised when there's no monopoly. Come on, let's make a deal with each other sometime, whether you're back to communism or you're for capitalism or what I call this state. Come on, then, let's go back to communism. But first explain it to the people. First you run it as your idea in the election, win the election, then you do it. There is even criticism here to try to introduce some private initiative, as if it were something bad in itself, as if it would be better if something remained after the latter stately, and ineffectively, as if it were a sin, as if it were a bad thing. When it comes to the Waterway Directorate, the existing state of affairs is precisely such that the state body has absolute monopoly, absolute monopoly and on design and performance and control, and we are changing that, this bill changes. We want the waterway to develop in both Germany and Austria. And it seems to me that some have fallen asleep simply during some past period of post-Communist period and that you prefer that kind of, let me say, overcome attitude. When it comes to privatising the port itself, although Mrs Mihajlovic mentioned earlier the port, that is, the privatisation of Luke Novi Sad and said everything in that sense in order not to repeat it, there is a difference between us and you. The way we understand this topic and how you, or not yourself, may be, but the party you participate in during the exercise of power understood the privatisation process and the way you should privatise yourself, including Luka Belgrade. One of the speakers mentioned, I see he's not in the O.R. now, privatizing Luke Belgrade, and I have to ask what this has to do with this ruling majority, with this government headed by Alexander Vukic? What difference does it make? Well, we inherited that situation with Luke Belgrade. We are trying, among other things, to fix what little can be fixed from the catastrophic situation we inherited, if it is your result, the result of the former regime and not only that privatisation but also many other privatisations, and you cannot place it on us to burden and responsibility. A speaker was mentioned today, I miraculously wondered, Mr. Chairman, that he spent nine minutes of his presentation on the subject of "Er Serbia", "JAT", the airport, etc., spent nine minutes on it. I carefully watched the proposed legislative act and found nowhere to be on the Er Serbia agenda today. "Er Serbia" is a successful example, a successful privatisation. "Er Serbia" is a business that is positive, "Er Serbia" is no longer a loss. This is an example of good privatisation. And how did you do the privatisation when it came to JAT? I'll just tell you in a minute, the paper wrote about it. The privatisation of JAT erveiz served as an exercise for experts hired by the consulting house "Rochschild", as they had not had a day of experience in the field of air traffic until then, but therefore managed to charge one coma of two million for consulting services. The results were gone. None. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What newspaper, Vučićevic? ) The newspaper said that there was a document showing that the offers of consulting houses were made. On the one hand, the consortium was led by the GNP Paribas, and on the other hand, "Rochshild". In the section relating to the tender team's references, more specifically the director of the "Rochschild" project was scored with zero points, but he still won the contract. He still got the job. However, it did not bother them to take a million and 150,000 euros on behalf of the diaries. Right in front of me, a contract on the provision of consulting services, the development and implementation of a privatisation strategy for JAT Airways. We paid a million and 150,000 euros. We didn't get anything. The job isn't done. Two thousand four hundred twenty-four euros per day, 33 jobs, a total of 80,000 euros, one of the members of the consulting house. It's an example of how you were trying to privatize and privatize various companies. In order not to repeat everything that has been repeatedly highlighted, the SNS supports this bill and we will vote in the voting day for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-25-0.u4537	Thank you. Since no one is reporting from the authorised representatives anymore, I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
