ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, therefore, beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You have been presented the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would also like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered any written observations to the minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 5 December 2016. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one with abstention – no one voted – six MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and proposals for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations in the Central Office of the Trans-European Railway Project. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a bill on airport management, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal, the Government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a bill on amendments to the Customs Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal, the Government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – one, did not vote – eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 128, against – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 129 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda – a bill amending the Law on the regulation of courts that submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against—one of the 139 MPs who did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda – a proposal to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic proposed that it be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure – a proposal to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a decision to suspend the position of President of the Criminal Court in Loznica, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one with abstentions is available. He finds that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that it be put on the agenda as an emergency procedure – a proposal for the establishment of a list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Neo-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9804	I thank the chairman. Here, on several occasions, I am trying to draw attention to my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments to put this proposal on the agenda and this initiative in order for the LGBT population to actually be recognized in this law, i.e. in recent times what the LGBT population is like, because this is practically the only regulation that concerns it, and it does not recognise it in its key Article 5, where the target groups of the population are assumed, on different grounds, as target groups, over which, by highlighting symbols and maintaining fascist and neo-Nazi manifestations, are actually adopted this key hatred and everything that involves fascism and neonasism. Namely, Article 5 recognizes the national minorities, churches and religious communities, and otherwise we are all witnesses, especially in the near past, that between the emphasising of symbols it actually propagates, as a word itself and speaks, a symbol of fascist and neo-Nazi propaganda, where there is a very small limit between the promotion of fascism and neo-nasism and when one dares, and allows himself, as a fascist and neo-Nazi, to take the law into his own hands, when very often or almost always the members of the LGBT population suffer. I therefore believe that this topic should at least open, if not adopt this legislative intervention, especially given that numerous declarations have been ratified in this National Assembly in favour of special treatment and taking into account LGBT populations. We have committed, together with two committees, a Committee on European Integration, a Committee on Human Rights, to work recently and to prepare a declaration against homophobia that should be found before the MPs. I therefore believe that the only reasonable way to recognize the LGBT community in this legal act is to identify it as a risk group, which is particularly violent by fascists, neo-Nazis, and that, as I have said, it is as small a limit between parading fascism and applying force and hatred which is certainly breaking over both their backs and their heads. Therefore, I urge my colleague to take this into account and at least open the debate, and in the hope that during the debate, there will be conditions for Article 5 of this law to be changed by the people's national minorities, churches and religious communities and this population being recognised as a potential victim of fascists and neo-Nazis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9805	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic is on the basis of article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9806	I thank the chairman. My proposal to make changes under the law on gambling goes to the benefit that so far the funds that have been used to treat and investigate rare diseases are increasing, and this is almost fourfold compared to the present inflow based on gambling. In fact, the current law on gambling assumes that 60% of the revenues on this basis are, therefore, from bookmakers, poker machines and so on, poured directly into the central Republic of Serbia's budget, and 40% of these revenues are allocated to five categories, the Red Cross, local self-government, youth, sport and, among other things, for research and treatment of rare diseases. In this distribution compared to 40% of gambling revenues, research and treatment of rare diseases was projected to be a percentage of 5%, which I believe is inaccessible, and I suggest that by redistributing these positions for the budget fund, the dedicated Fund for research and treatment of rare diseases, this percentage from 5% is increased to 25%, so that we are not in a situation of continued intensive assistance, especially to children, treatment through SMS messages, humanitarian concerts, etc., where I, of course, support every humanitarian activity of conscious citizens, but I believe that a legal solution, if already exists, should be supported. During the debate on the budget from the health minister last week, we heard that 260 and some million were necessary in the last year for research and treatment of rare diseases outside Serbia, so that they cannot be treated here, but there is a possibility outside the Republic of Serbia. However, from his presentation, I realized that the insufficient number of interested people and patients in particular know about the functioning of this budget fund, which was established in 2013. With this intervention, on my proposal, and I also ask all MPs to take into account and vote to put this amendment to the agenda, this budget fund for research and treatment of rare diseases outside the Republic of Serbia would be doubled. So, with the current 200 million, it would amount to almost 400 million, which I think is necessary not only for the purposes of these budgets, but primarily for citizens and patients to be informed about the existence of this budget fund at all, and not for us to hear, as we heard from the health minister, that most citizens don't even know that it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9807	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on agricultural and rural development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people died. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9808	Thank you. There are two reasons why I have submitted an initiative to amend the Criminal Code, with this explanation, which is that recent changes to the Criminal Code are only effective in July of next year, and in the meantime, a new criminal act of public approval, namely the denial of genocide, which we of the LSV considered incomplete, namely the denial of war crimes genocides and crimes against humanity, is being brought down and taken into account only the judicial judgments in Serbia and the International Criminal Court. We then submitted an amendment supplementing this new crime, including the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, known as The Hague Court, and the International Court of Justice, known as the World Court, because we felt that if a step has already been made in respecting and treating international courts, then all international courts dealing with genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity should be found in this criminal act. The minister of justice then rejected the amendment and said that it was not possible to propose both the Hague court and the International Court of Justice because it was ad hoc courts, which is absolutely not standing, because they differ from permanent courts only for their duration. So they are given time, but the judicial judgments of all these courts are equally important. Of course, in her official refusal, she did not say so, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs rejected this amendment of mine and that is another reason why I submitted this initiative. I was deceived while there was a debate in detail, and when I wasn't allowed to explain this amendment of mys with respect to two courts, which we as leaguers asked to meet in this article. The explanation was that the amendment was anti-constitutional. It turned out not to be against the constitution, that the Committee's argument was incomplete, which also did not stand, and I understood this political maneuver as an instrument so as not to speak at all about The Hague Court and the International Court of Justice, which should also be taken into account through the criminal act of denying genocide to be, or their judicial verdicts, taken into account. Therefore, I have taken the initiative to intervene and propose to amend the Criminal Code by recognising the new crime of genocide, but so that both the Hague court and the International Court of Justice are recognised through this new criminal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9809	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9810	I also propose amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government on several occasions, and also in previous cases I appeal to fellow Members and MPs to pay attention to what I am actually doing, because I believe that the recent amendment of this law, when our municipalities and cities have been denied to some extent for the safest income, and this is part of the income from the profit tax, has come into an unspeakable situation in the coming new financial year. What we have as a phenomenal phenomenon is that municipalities and cities have become massively in debt to carry out the burden of original powers and responsibilities they actually have, such as maintenance and painting of hospitals, primary schools, paved the streets, which is in fact their original jurisdiction, but taking away some of the funds under the recently amended Law on the financing of local self-government and, in the future, damaged in their budgets for this part of income, they have found themselves in a position to start borrowing loans under commercial conditions, so that they cannot bring their original powers to an end. I'll just say an example. My Panchevo is in charge of almost a fifth of his home budget, almost a billion dinars. The Grains are in debt for more than 700 million dinars. Nish is in charge of more than two billion dinars. I find it absolutely unwarranted because it does not owe to the biological world, trees, cars, but the same citizens of our municipalities and cities are in debt, and credits will certainly come under commercial conditions on a heavy charge, as we see, in even weaker budget terms compared to what is ahead of them. I also appealed to Minister Brnabić when we discussed the fact that the basic system law on local self-government was to be changed first, to reduce the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, by introducing a political system, so that a number of necessary competencies would be determined, to determine the extent of the university competences that possibly some municipalities and cities could meet, in terms of increasing funds, rather than going to this reverse system, to change first by following the law, the Finance Act, without changing the basic law. So, our proposal is to go back to the previous state of affairs from two months ago, to change the Law on Local Self-Government first, and only on the basis of amended jurisdiction to change and follow the Law on the financing of the same municipalities and cities. That would really make sense, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9811	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9812	Thank you very much. This was the second time filed on August 16th, and the first time more than a year and a half ago. It's more than once repeated reasons, but I don't think it's ever bad to repeat it again, because the reasons are great. As the Serbian public and fellow MPs know, in the past few years, there has been an eruption of fake doctorates, diplomats, many of the highest functions of the current government have photocopied diplomas that have no foothold except that the paper is produced from wood and cellulose, and it can be printed on anything. It is not only in the case of the president of the state, in the case of the interior minister, in the case of the mayor of Belgrade, but it is one big flood of such quasi documents, quasi calling, and it is not for the benefit of anyone, nor for the benefit of the ruling party. The president of the ruling party boasts that the student of history is a generation or for the first time in history or something. I think it's a bad shadow and a party that tends to be advanced in our society. It is therefore proposed that this amendment to the law, which reads that point 1a is added in Article 4 after point 1a, which is the academic congratulation, and another member says that after Article 5, the name of the member and Article 5a is added – Academic congratulation. Article 5a – Academic congratulation is based on independent work of written works, as well as on strict respect for other people's copyrights. Of course, it should be perfectly logical and to no one normal, healthy, honest, responsible, should it come to mind that in any way harming other people's property, but it happens, and therefore it is necessary that there is an explicit norm in this law that indicates that this is a crime. In the response I received from the Government on 29 September this year, the opinion does not accept the draft law in principle, given that the draft principle of academic integrity is defined only in relation to written works, the introduction of academic honesty as a new principle of higher education cannot be accepted in the way it was given in the bill of law. So, of course in writing. It would be very interesting for an opinionist, and the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic writes here to explain to me what other forms are. Would it be possible, for example, to prevent plagiarists from preserving academic integrity, or perhaps to think about doctoral work done by plastics?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9813	Thank you, three minutes, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 11 against – one that is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 91. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the daily sessions be supplemented by the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed by the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9814	And this motion for a resolution was tabled much earlier than August 16th, the proposal was renewed on August 16th. I've repeated, I mean, ten times, but it's not burned, and this is a subject that needs to be repeated over and over again. No one in the world can be happy and satisfied, if there is some force, some authority, and perhaps some nation had genocide towards someone else. I don't think there's much to repeat on the Balkan field. Here such intentions were very common, and some of them were realized, and that is something that must not remain in that dark part of history, unexposed, without knowing who created such ideas, who realized them, who contributed to them being activated and executed, who helped in all of it and who did it to make such ideas and their realizations cover up. Of course, it's not just the problem of the Balkans, it's the problem of modern history. And it is therefore important that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, as already done by the parliaments of the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, California, some other states of the United States, bring a resolution condemning a genocide that was carried out 100 and a few years ago by the Ottoman Empire. This would show that, of course, apart from the sensitivity we have towards the genocide that has been made towards the Serbian people of modern history, by the genocides that have been committed to other peoples in our environment, that we have this same relationship with any people who in no way deserved to happen to him, what happened to him. I always repeat, I will repeat and now it has nothing to do with the current policy of the Republic of Turkey. Today it has to do with events that marked history. I think that, even as members of the Serbian people who are in Serbia, but that all citizens of Serbia, regardless of religion and nation, have an interest in condemning this genocide, and since they are representatives of all Serbian citizens here, I urge you to do what is our obligation, and thus show that this Parliament wants us to fight in a universal way against the worst possible things that have happened in history, not to happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9815	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Regulation of Space and Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9816	And this law was first proposed in 2015, sometime in May, with the idea to regulate the area of construction, planning and arrangement of space, to restore validity, i.e. to activate in one innovative form the law that was adopted in 2003, but with a promise, one of the very bad behaviours of the following authorities did not come into force, i.e. it entered into force, but was not implemented. What happened? What else is going on? We all know that, Serbia has several hundred thousand illegally erected objects. The 2003 law, as well as this law proposed in 2015 and 2016, had good intentions and good arguments in it that it could prevent further savagery of wild construction. Wild construction is an inconclusive term in any foreign language. When you talk to a German, a French, a British, and you tell him wild construction and try to translate it into their own languages, it's incontrovertible. So it's about time we changed it and we finally got a good law to apply again. What did we have a while ago? We received the Law on Law enforcement that was meant to solve these problems, strengthen everything that could be sharpened and thus create conditions for Serbia's further progress, but above all through preventing further wild construction. That law was passed, by the end of November all the facilities that should be legalized were not even done 10% of that job. It's playing with the law. We also have today a mass of objects that are not legalized, which are obviously built where it is absolutely forbidden. Not to mention never again, I will never again repeat this, that the president of the country has one or two cottages that were illegally built, that he is everywhere in Serbia the mass of objects that are completely illegal, and their investors were today and yesterday large distributors and sponsors of ruling parties, so they got what they got. That Belgrade is one of the largest illegal sites in mankind's history on water, I think there was more documentation for the pyramids in Egypt than for what we have in Belgrade on water, and it has to be interrupted. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the places: And when no bills are paid? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9817	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9818	Thank you very much. Please only protect me from throwing, if you can, because that would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9819	You don't stay in debt, colleague Zivkovic, you go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9820	I didn't owe anyone, but it has nothing to do with the attitude to a speaker in the National Assembly. I'm proud I've never stayed in debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9821	When it comes to pitching, you never owe anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9822	The Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties requires that Article 23(3) be deleted. What's the point? The goal is to prevent the inequality of participants in the political process in affirmation, advertising, in getting to know the public about their ideas, attitudes, candidates for the election process. There's always been, and unfortunately we can't change it now, but we can do something for the future, that the ruling party, and three years ago, and five years ago, and seven years ago, they have a few dozen times more money for their campaigns. First of all, for the electronic media. That's tens of tens of millions of euros or billions of dinars, which is more expensive to whom. That money needs Serbia, not for pointless aesthetic, political, moral, or any other unacceptable advertising, that money is needed to treat children, that money is needed to treat serious diseases. That money is needed for schools, if we don't have a modern teaching programme, at least we have these toilets promised by the Prime Minister, a big passenger in public toilets around Serbia, and he didn't do it, and that money has to be used better. I propose that commercial advertising of political parties and other participants be banned in the elections. The people of Serbia, Serbian citizens, have the full right to be informed of the political programmes of parties participating in the elections, but it does not have to be done by throwing people's money away, but by the fact that the electronic media will open up a dual of candidate emissions, where it will be seen, very simply, who it represents, who the position is, who it is, and that it is a way for citizens to decide who they will vote for when the elections are called. That written media also through their way of information gives equal space to all candidates. This way, opposition candidates can only appear in the media as accused, suspected, spitted and demonized, and the candidates of the authorities with their lies, their frauds about the cost of people have absolutely...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9823	Three minutes, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9824	An article 49 is required to be added after Article 49. which reads: "It is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcasts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements". As I said earlier, somewhere near 100m euros are spent in the year when general elections, when elections are at all levels, that means maximum numbers, but not even minimally, are spent on having various lifeguards, miracle workers, private pathways in history, kissing by his mother, best students, and all others who represent themselves as politicians, spending people's money in a way that pollutes the media space with their uncultural, terrestrial, aesthetic, morally unacceptable messages. There are as many of them as you want. Some are punished by God for it, so I can't help them, but because of the citizens of Serbia who are completely innocent in the whole situation, I urge my colleagues to vote, and my colleagues, of course, above all, to stop our vote by throwing away money, so that the money spent for these purposes is directed to treat children. Not to treat our children with text messages, but to treat them in a way that belongs to the 21st century. To protect those same kids from the ham, from bizarreness, from the lies that are being broadcast through all these commercials, to protect them from the same characters showing up, a while ago with the idea of killing 100 for someone, and today they're telling me about Europe, to be protected from everything that they wear. There is a way, and that is, in Serbia there are enough televisions that can, in the election time, one month until the elections to organise round tables, dual shows, anything similar to that, to help the stupidest people in Serbia, to understand what the political party is offering, and thus probably prevent people who do not deserve to pass in front of this building, let alone be representatives of the people. I think I also have the support of most colleagues and colleagues from the ruling parties, and I expect to put that on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9825	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'd just like to ask you not to insult the citizens of Serbia. Maybe we're not all the same intelligent, but... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What have you recognized? You cannot comment on my proposal to supplement the agenda. You can only vote. I'm obliged, Mr. Zivkovic, to... I'll put it to a vote. I'm just asking you not to call the citizens of Serbia stupid. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: There were no citizens, and there was no you. What'd you recognize yourself for? I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovici want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9826	That the term above members and Article 11 is changed in the Government Act and that it reads: "health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest. “ And that Article 11 reads — Before the Government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the medical ability to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the AP, municipalities, cities, Belgrade City or perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of government members or create the possibility of conflict of public and private interest. A member of the government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. I have repeated several times, it is not difficult for Serbia to do it once again, in order to make it absolutely logical that if people who are employed at telephone stations, or who are employed as porters, or as coffee cooks, they must bring medical assurance that they can be employed by state authorities, to bring and present candidates for ministers before the election. There are relevant institutions that can do this. There is an example in our modern history that this was done, the first democratic government of Zoran Djindjic, where all candidates first went to VMA to determine their working ability in the physiological and psychological and psychiatric sense. They're all gone. That government was good at the time there were no criminal privatisations. The fight against crime was successful and final. At the time the euro was 67.1 dinar, at the time there were 300,000 employees more than today. These are obvious effects. This way, if we don't have that option, anything can happen to us. It may happen to us, let's say, you have the highest government representative in Serbia who tells you that Serbia, in Switzerland, has not fought for 17 years and that's our record. I, as far as I know, Serbia didn't fight from 1945 to 1990, and in 1990 it was whether or not we were at war or not. Anyway, we lost. It may occur to you that we have at our highest posts people who once defended Serbs and where they defended Serbs, the Serbs are gone, and there is no chance of re-emergence. That's why it's very important to carry out a review. Of course, that applies to future governments. Here, there will be elections in April of this year, so let's first adopt the law and create conditions for a healthy head.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9827	Three minutes, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9828	As we have parliamentary elections in April of next year, it is certain that we also have presidential elections. So it's perfectly logical that when candidates for ministers have to, in fact, not have to, but they need to do a doctor's examination and have confidence that they are capable of the service, of course it's also necessary for candidates for the president of the state. It's the right time, it's the last hour, there's talk of different candidates, we still, of course, haven't entered that formal part of the candidacy, the elections aren't scheduled, so it's the right time to pass the law now and that we have the next time we choose the president to make sure that it's a man capable of working in state authorities. It states here that Article 1 is to add point 2a in Article 11(3), which is to say – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. It's something that's completely natural and normal. So we can protect ourselves from, say, not being allowed by God to happen to us, having the president of the state with a false degree, or not having God have the president of a state that sees yellow people, or having the president of a state that connects two river basins, Danube and Aegean with a canal, it can no longer happen again, Danube-Wardar-Egey. So these are all preventive measures that we have one normal state, one normal behavior, where we will have a president who will do his job, where we will have a president who will fight for the protection of rights, who will fight for the application of the law, who will fight for the application of all internationally reached standards in the fields of human rights, respect for the laws and everything else. So let's get a president who's practically going to be a Nautilus plus. So, not only formally, but also politically that we have a man who will be the true representative of the sovereignty of Serbian and Serbian citizens, and when we send him to visit, when someone comes to us, not to be afraid of what we're going to hear now, whether some green people or some purple, some pink, it's all now a great danger. To prevent that danger, I invite you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to vote in favour of this bill. In your eyes I see approval, but it just needs something else, which is that without the sound of the bell, now that it's put to a decision, you vote on number four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9829	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the other of the 17 Messengers who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the five Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I have concluded the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for seven Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the five Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the five Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the three Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the person responsible for the destruction of those facilities, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the ten Messengers against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, and there is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9830	Thank you. I hope that MPs of the ruling majority will listen to the proposed amendments to the Social Protection Act, regardless of who proposes this law. We think this law is necessary in the state our country is in right now. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(8). The Democratic Party proposes three concrete measures. The Democratic Party proposes that all students whose parents do not work and whose parents are registered in the Centre for Social Work, in any municipality in Serbia, be provided free textbooks, provide free transportation from home to school for all students and free lunches. Unfortunately, about 50,000 children, which are covered by primary and secondary education, are hungry today in 2016. We must not allow it, especially when we know that criminals, like Zvonko Veselinovic, are on the other hand, are rich in corruption contracts and corruption affairs in co-operation with the SNS, and in return they are supplied with the harassment of all Serbian citizens who think differently and speak differently from the SNS and the great leader. That's not the kind of Serbia the DS stood for in the '90s. That's not the kind of Serbia the DS stands for today. Unfortunately, the situation in Serbia is really difficult, and you have led Serbia from SNS to such a situation that we have an example of a Molo boy who took his own life because of the difficult material and financial situation in which he and his family were in. The same boy left his third year of high school in Vienna because he could not afford a ride from home to school. Therefore, the DS proposes these amendments and amendments to the law, to ensure that all students whose parents do not work are provided free of charge from home to school, that all students whose parents do not work are provided free lunches and that all students whose parents do not work are provided free textbooks. Unfortunately, in 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 16%, which is indeed a devastating figure. That is why DS also suggests that DS finance free out-of-body fertilisation for all young couples. I hope that at least this is interesting for you, that unfortunately 30% of young couples who are under 40 have a problem becoming parents and we have to deal with this problem in a serious and responsible way, not the way the SNS does it. Serbia, unfortunately, is the leader of the region, but Serbia, unfortunately, is the leader in the region only at the risk of poverty. We can build bridges, we can build factories, but we can't let our children be hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9831	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 16, against – one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda to the meeting – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9832	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know which time I'm proposing this law anymore. It is truly unacceptable for me to propose that no amendments to the laws by the Democratic Party, and there are about 20, the ruling majority does not want to propose, does not want to put them on the agenda at all, so that we can discuss these amendments and amendments to the laws and discuss them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party is life first and therefore the DS proposes amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party proposes that all local self-government be directly, i.e. To the citizens of the Republic of Serbia indirectly, they increase transfers by five billion, just as much as you are from the SNS, only a month ago, by a law that destroys local self-government, by a law that destroys all municipalities and cities, but, unfortunately, by law against which even the mayors of the SNS must not fight, because they did not get the bell that you here inform the ruling majority of how to vote. Since, instead of the borders of Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovitica, I believe you of SNS say so, you stand for European values and call for European laws, to see what it is like in developed EU countries. The European Charter against which you were then from the SNS, i.e. Radical parties, in 2007, were signed and said the municipalities must have political, administrative and financial independence. Unfortunately, in Serbia municipalities have no administrative independence, let alone financial independence. Let's see how it is also in EU countries, where half of the budgets belong to the central level of government, and the other half of the budgets belong to local self-governments, i.e. municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, in Serbia today only 9.8% of total budgets belong to municipalities and cities, i.e. To citizens, and all other money belongs to the central level of government. We're one of the most centralized states, which is truly devastating. Since 2012, SNS's vernacular and corrupt authority has been the local self-government, i.e. The municipalities and cities, they took away over 50 billion dinars. You take away local self-government, you take away doctors, you take away teachers, you take away farmers and you give Alexander Vukic and the worst government in Serbia's history to show some kind of fake surplus. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't take citizens' rights to live where they were born, especially those local self-governments that are devastated, and we can see that you've made all the local self-government devastated...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9833	I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I don't know if you can give me two seconds to finish the sentence. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Šulkic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2016. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9834	Thank you, Your Honor. The Democratic Party, amendments and additions to the Police Act, is not proposing it for itself, but the DS is proposing it because of all the people who are employed in the Ministry of the Interior and because our life comes first. So you laughed two months ago when we talked here about our army's involvement in multinational operations, when DS said that the bad situation was materially and in the police in the military, it was as funny as it is now, but we see today in Serbia in 2016 protesting on the streets and cops protesting on the streets and soldiers, and it's not for some reason hidden there, as you speak, but because it's extremely difficult to live and simply cannot feed themselves and their family. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law on police is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are extremely necessary, given the state in which the members of the MUP are materially above all. The situation is so bad that you from the SNS, all the members of the MUP, first reduced their salary once, and then you cut their salary the second time, and then you bought them a reduction in their daily living, a living room for all those people who risked their lives providing us and our country with a shameful 150 dinar. For those 150 dinars, a member of the police can buy a muffin, and it's empty, and a glass of yogurt. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first point is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system needed for admission to a permanent working relationship at the MUP and that it receives students at the Police Academy according to these needs. We need to have compatibility between that number of students who are admitted to the Police Academy and the number that will be needed for admission to permanent employment. We ask, of course, that all students who are able, staff and educated, who finish the Police Academy, automatically upon the end of their entry into a working relationship, and not that today in the police we have such a situation that some Dijana Hrkalović line up special anti-terrorist units and our police force, and that lady, with all respect, did not pass the police station, except that a friend with Nebojsa Stefanovic and a member of the SNS has no other qualifications. The second amendment is that the provision of Article 172(2) of the Law on the Police destroys the presummation of innocence, and we propose that its erasure. That's what's coming with our Constitution. Today, some Martinovic can also file a criminal charges against a police officer, and the policeman is automatically away from work, so the presumption of innocence is collapsing. We propose to delete Article 172(2) of the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9835	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9836	Thank you, Vice President. We entered the third year as the deadline expired for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for Serbia to pass a law that will solve the problem of missing babies. The deadline stems from the 2013 verdict received by our fellow citizen at the European Court of Human Rights, when the court found that the Republic of Serbia violated its right to privacy, family life and in 2013, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to adopt this law by the end of 2014. I'm not ashamed, I was going to say that I'm ashamed to ask you for three years to adopt this law that I propose, which consists only of a single amendment to the Criminal Code, but it should actually be a shame to you who, without a single word of explanation, refuse to be adopted. Those interested in communicating with the citizens could see that last week, on several occasions, all the MPs addressed the parents of the Association of Truth about the missing babies who begged us, begged and discussed with us that the law proposed by the RS government should not be adopted. They were in the congregation all day, a few days ago, said they'd come again. All MPs who are interested can address the heads of their parliamentary groups who have received their letters, and I have only one request for you, don't let those people who have suffered and who have gone through something that we can't even imagine, make it even more difficult for the situation, adopting the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes, which they think will destroy any possibility to ever know the truth about their children and which offers no solution to any of the problems they face and which does not implement at all the ruling that the Republic of Serbia must implement in order to fulfil the commitment imposed by the Council of Europe. I ask you to adopt this bill of law that I am now giving, and it is simple for this crime to become a crime that does not go out of date. Please, let us not accept ever putting on the agenda what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing and asking you, that everyone for themselves give the answer they put at the end of the letter they sent us, and that is whether any of you today would give your child in exchange for 10 or 15,000 euros, because that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is offering them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9837	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There were 12 messengers who voted against, none who were abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9838	It's a little hard to understand, Mr. Arsic. Either you speak quietly or there's noise in the O.R., high education, is that what you said?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9839	I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9840	Thank you. The Law on Higher Education is one of a series of laws that I have proposed to amend in order for the catastrophic education system that we have, which does not meet neither the needs of the time we live in, nor the needs of our economy, nor the needs of what we, I hope, want to be and it is just one of the three laws, there are two laws on the basic system of education and education, and the Law on textbooks. None of those three laws are good. You don't want to talk about any of those three laws. Again, who knows which way and for a few years in a row we hear that there is no need for him to be adopted now because there will be a new law on higher education. This is the fourth SNS minister who promises to be a new law on higher education, here is the moment, and all the changes to the Law on Higher Education that we have so far have not solved a single problem that exists in our higher education, which is that our higher education is outdated, inertly, does not want to change, does not suit our needs and long ago, overcome. Our universities, our colleges are not on any of the best colleges in Europe. It's rare exceptions that do it, not to talk about those world lists. From our colleges come professors of Serbian language, such as my primary education, who do not know how to organize class, how to talk to children, how to interest children in what they have to say, how to pass on knowledge, how to teach them. From our colleges come lawyers who haven't seen contracts all the time studying, who aren't trained for what their job will be. From our colleges come people who don't know what they've been trained for. There's more reason for that. Among other things, teachers at higher education institutions are unable to pass on knowledge. Children in our colleges pay huge tuitions for which their parents raise overpriced loans, and they don't even know what their money is going to today and what it costs 100, 200 or 300,000 dinars in a year, how much tuition it costs in certain universities. I think we need to talk about it. If you don't think you should, if you're waiting for the bells, you ask yourself why you're sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9841	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There were 14 messengers who voted against, none who were abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9842	At the end of primary school, children get that famous homework, with early-received preparations, and now the graduation they are due to attend and there is a complete paper from the fifth to eighth grade for the Serbian language case. Children answer questions from grammar and literature. Among other things, in this exercise, the book for preparing for a small graduation was also used as a reference to the German language. There are three questions from that illustration. I don't know how much you remember, it's that parable where the hero gets the gift of talking to animals, so some adventures happen to him, among other things, the mare tells him that his wife is pregnant. He comes home, the woman laughs, now, the woman asks him why he's laughing, he won't answer her. He goes out and talks to a rooster, goes back to the house, takes a stick and beats up that pregnant woman of his. The story ends with words – and his wife never asked him why he was laughing again. It's our folk literature, no one has a problem with that. However, what we would all have to have a problem with is the way this illustration was processed in the exercise that every eight years looked at, in the way that it stood in that exercise for 10 years. There are three questions from this illustration. The first question - why did the wife of the chief hero of the German language account deserve to get beat up? So the question arises so that the woman somehow deserved to get beat up. The correct answer is b) – because it is curious. The second question – what are the qualities that adorn the hero of the parable “None Language”? The correct answer is again under b) – courage and curiosity. So the woman deserved to get beaten because she was curious, and the man was admirably curious. The issue stood for 10 years in a training exercise for elementary schools in Serbian language and literature. Professor Obradovic knows how much we've been struggling to get it out of there, eventually it's been expelled. That's here, one of the things that none of the teachers, nor the teachers, nor the children, nor the parents noticed that something with that question and those answers was wrong. Now, these are our textbooks. It's still the system by which we approve them and that's something we have to change. I see, unfortunately, there's no will here, but maybe one day it will be. I will continue to propose until you agree with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9843	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There were 12 messengers who voted against, none who were abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9844	When you adopted the Law on Agricultural Land, several months ago, we asked you to remove from it a provision under which in every municipality in Serbia a third of the agricultural land in state property can be given to a selected businessman, of course, by the free choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the municipality, for a period of 99 years. Instead, we suggested that some kind of public competition be made, that conditions be created, who can be those businessmen, privates who take this land into lease, to see which land it could be, so that they would not take the best land in each municipality, and then remain a land that is either inexplicably or incinerated or poor quality. We asked you to create any conditions and any criteria by which you can appreciate who this agricultural land is given to for a period of 99 years, given that it is a period in which the generations in the families dealing with agriculture will not be able to process this land and will instead work as an overlord on some large agricultural holdings of your business partners, which these agricultural land have been obtained solely because they are close to some of the SNS summits. More than tens of thousands of families in Serbia live exclusively on the lease of agricultural land in state property and process it. You have left them without any source of income and made them work on land without any criteria, without any conditions, without any rules giving to your agricultural partners for an extremely long period. Now that we see the Water Law, we see that you're planning to do something similar with water land. It is obvious that this whole law is directed at having re-elected SNS partners or someone from the top of your party come to water land, that they can also build there, that they get a direct lease on water land in case they built an illegal facility there. Again and again, the matrix in which they profit, dominate and benefit those who have violated the law, those who have walked the rules, and only because they are close to you. I think we should stop that. Let's start with agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9845	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National Envoy of the Master Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9846	The education development strategy in Serbia by 2020 was adopted in 2012. It was adopted by the first government of Alexander Vukic, although it was prepared years earlier. All relevant education experts participated in its work. Anyone who deals with education in Serbia is thinking about education, writes about education, participated in the development of the strategy. You adopted it in 2012, which might make you think it's something you're getting along with and that's something you're going to support. The strategy sets out solutions for all the problems that we have in our education system, in our primary schools, in our high schools, and these are problems that relate to the outdated way of teaching, to the bad textbooks, to the fact that children have no sense of belonging to school, that their school comes down to sitting there and learning by heart what they were told in class, and then they respond, so in a month they have no idea what they were doing, or what they learned, or what they were talking about. And in this Education Strategy, people who are dealing with education, who are thinking about education, who write about education, gave the way they think that by 2020 our huge problem can be solved. You accepted it, someone would say with a desire to really get rid of it, to implement it. However, given that the opportunities to implement these solutions remain only for two school years, I do not know how we think we measure what we did in education from 2012 to 2020. Instead, we have a prime minister who went to Germany, so there he saw that he had dual education and in the budget adopted on Saturday we already have something called the Dual Education Promotion Fund. All people involved in education in Serbia are against the introduction into Serbia of dual education. The strategy absolutely states that all education experts in Serbia oppose dual education, but we do not need a strategy, we just need what Vukic is in German video and then we will implement it. I'm asking you not to do this with the education system, because we can't make a strategy based on what the Wolfess saw in Germany, so he liked it. If we have a strategy, if you adopted it, I think we should implement it. The way to do that is to adopt amendments to laws that implement at least part of what the strategy says.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9847	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9848	Dear Chairman, I have suggested that this session be included in the agenda a proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act, which is expected to be abolished by VAT on food and baby equipment. What are the reasons for that? Probably these three minutes wouldn't be enough to add up all the reasons, but I'll try to get some of them out. It is known that Serbia is the country with almost the highest average age in Europe, which is now more than 43 years old, that every year in Serbia, it is born of about 35,000 to 40,000 fewer children than people die, that one city the size of Negotina or Prepolje disappears from each year. Only last year, 38,150 people died more than children were born. When you talk to parents about why they have one child, and unfortunately 43% of Serbian families have only one child, that barely 30% of families with two children, and those with three and four are negligible percentages, barely about 15% have three or more children, and the number of those who have problems getting a child is approaching the percentage of 30%. When you talk to people why they don't have more children, one of the main reasons and the criteria that parents have is that it's a bad material position, that there's no job and that raising children isn't so cheap, that everything is expensive, that baby equipment is expensive, that food is expensive for children. I think that at the moment in which Serbia is located, as one of the oldest residents in Europe, at a time when every year, 40,000 people are born less than they are dead, one of the symbolic ways we can help those who want to have more children, and because of their material conditions, they cannot do so, to abolish the value added tax for equipment and baby food. I think it would be a symbolic act, no matter what we got the minister without a portfolio to deal with demographics. I think this too would be the way we can help Serbia restore itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9849	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 24 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9850	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, the Serbian Parliament adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government at the beginning of this autumn's meeting by reducing some of the traffic tax revenues left by local self-government from 80% to 76%. We suggest that this percentage return to the old one. This proposal is in a package with another law, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Tax, which we propose that this tax, which is 80 and 76%, as it is now, remains with local self-government, be reduced from 10% to 9%. I want to explain in these few minutes the essence of which we have passed these two laws. First of all, when this amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government was adopted, we could hear that local self-governments agreed with this government proposal and that they had no objection to a little over five billion dinars of less income on this basis. How's he gonna compensate? We've been listening to all kinds of things. It's mostly the idea of making up for it by watching them get as close as possible to the Prime Minister and making up for this loss from his mercy. Where these graces will not be, they are ready, local self-governments, to be in charge, to take loans, and in some other way to cover the shortfall they will have in the register, i.e. to give up some important investments or social projects in order to pay off, since most of the budgets, the local self-government goes to employees' salaries, which has risen dramatically in these four years, as is the Serbian Progressive Party in power. If they've already agreed, then we think that these five billion dinars, as long as they have to stay in the budget, are more. Now, if it's such a good situation in the budget, and we've heard about it all last week, that it's great, that we have a business surplus, and that the only problem is actually in public enterprises and the debts that the state has to take on based on guarantees given to these public enterprises, that we use those five billion by starting the process of discharging the economy, those who create added value in Serbia, those who raise that famous GDP, and who and of its growth, all of us in Serbia depend on. Since the main grudge is a high level of taxes and contributions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9851	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9852	Thank you. So, citizen income tax, our proposal is to cut that tax rate from 10% to 9%. The total disbursement of gross wages in the Republic of Serbia, the percentage has not changed for more than 12 years, and that percentage is one of the highest in the world, and certainly one of the highest in the region and from many places we can hear that it is one of the reasons why there are not enough foreign and other investments in Serbia today, domestic investment, why our GDP is growing the slowest in the region, although we keep hearing that this is the biggest growth. It's just that that's not true, the data says something different. Unless things change, which is something that the economy has been looking for years ago, neither the investment climate nor the number of investments in Serbia will change. We think it's very important to start with that. This is essentially one symbolic reduction, and I think the set goal should be to make half of the salary, which is paid to workers, that 50% of that value is paid for social, health and other insurance and tax on salaries. The government obviously has no intention of moving into this process. We listened last week, there were no changes in this sense, there were no announcements, even explicitly the finance minister said he didn't see the possibility, the Fiscal Council said that the measure would go with a more serious tax reduction and salary contributions had to be compensated in the budget by raising VAT. In order to reach those 50%, various measures would have to be combined, but we think that this reduction from income tax to citizens, which has so far gone to local self-government, is now left in the budget without a clear plan of what will be spent on. It can be used to run this process. So, a reduction in the income tax from citizens from 10% to 9%, to move in this direction, to see how we can make a more functional and better business of funds and pension and health funds, and to create additional space for certain reductions, to improve the investment climate, to fight the grey economy, because many companies today pay a significant part of the salary on black, workers on their hands so as not to pay a high percentage of taxes and contributions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9853	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, on the basis of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law supplementing the Act on Excises, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 November 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9854	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, this is the first time I have introduced you to our proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act. Something I was talking about in the budget debate. We had an amendment, which the government did not accept, but the finance minister expressed his understanding of our initiative and said that he personally agrees, but that there are certain lobbys that made this initiative impossible for the government to pass before, so I want to introduce you to what this is all about. Namely, the idea of this law is to introduce 10 dinar excise juices per litre on fruit juices with added sugar and water. This idea stems from the World Health Organization's appeal, which is due to the world's declared epidemic of obesity, suggested that governments of all countries of the world introduce a certain tax burden on fruit juices with added sugar or water with added sugar, which are one of the reasons for the dramatically increased number of obesity in the world in recent decades. In Serbia, these numbers look like this: 21% of Serbia's population is obesity, and 35% are pre-omatic. Seven hundred thousand people suffer from diabetes, and there is a great danger that the number will increase dramatically, because in most cases in people suffering from obesity, things are also caused by complications of diabetes. It's a particularly dangerous obesity in children. It has doubled from 2.6 to 4.9%, and so far, according to some data, 16 countries have introduced this tax, i.e. in all those countries where it works several years back, good results have been achieved. The best example is neighbouring Hungary, which introduced this tax in 2011 and the results are that 20% decreased consumption of fruit juices with sugar added, and so much increased consumption and production of natural fruit juices. I call on you to start immediately in the debate, not to wait for what the finance minister said, that is the Government's proposal on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, which, I fear, will not contain these solutions, and we will certainly and in this debate advocate through amendments that this solution be accepted, especially by the Minister of Finance's position that he personally does not mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9855	I thank my colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee, to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the town known as Savamal, 25 April 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 6 June 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9856	Thank you. My proposal exists in the assembly procedure for more than half a year, and along with counterpart Bozovic, who today is unable to explain his initiative and his reasons, for a similar proposal he also proposed in the assembly procedure, I want to repeat once again, that although unfortunately I am sure that the support of the ruling majority will not be obtained. Everyone is familiar and I think that now all the citizens of the six, seven months since the event, which happened on election night, know that in the part of Belgrade known as Savamal, there have been the destruction of several objects by strangers with phantoms on their heads. First, for a few days, since this was happening during the post-election period, somehow the public did not pay attention to it. As time passed, however, various facts were found out, and what is particularly worrying is that a report by the Citizens' Protector could show that, although called to intervene, police had not intervened on the orders of someone from the top of the police. One of the questions we'd like and we think we need to get an answer on the Committee of Auditors is, which one from the top of the police department who ordered the police officers not to come out on a call from the citizens? Who is this who suspended the state of Serbia for a few hours, in one part of it? This is a particularly important issue for every citizen of Serbia, because if we live in Serbia where order is not known, where such things are possible, somewhere else, unfortunately we can and should be afraid that this may happen to us. That someone suspends the rights of citizens and obligations of state authorities to respond to the protection of rights, and that months after that, no answer is given to who it is and why it is ordered. We were able to find out from the Prime Minister who was involved in the resolution and lighting of this case that complete idiots from the top of the city were responsible for the collapse in Savamala. Now I wonder if the prosecutor is as express as he hears potential presidential candidates, so he also listened to the Prime Minister to meet them who these complete idiots are from the top of the city government. And in general, why was that expression used about complete idiots, it seems to me like a defense formula, that when they come to court, they ask why you did it, let's say, Mr. Mali, and he says because I'm a complete idiot, and he tries to get away with the extenuating circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9857	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9858	Thank you. This proposal is our wish that the dramatic situation in Serbia that says that 30% of children in Serbia are threatened with poverty, that 25% of Serbian citizens are threatened with poverty, that 12% are below the poverty line, that they finally take active measures and active policies to change the situation. Unfortunately, when we discussed the budget we had last week, we didn't hear a single new measure that the government was planning. In response from the government to our bill, we received the answer that in September of the month, once again after the election of the new government, a new Working Group was formed to prepare this law. Unfortunately, the sad fact is that more than two years ago, a task force was formed, which had been preparing the bill for a year, which then sent the law to the government, which the government had never declared, and then the elections were called. Since it is obvious that in April of next year, together with the presidential elections, we will have parliamentary elections, we will again have a situation that the Working Group will have no one to whom, if it ever gets to finish some bill, to whom to send it, that by the second half of 2017 there will probably not be a parliament that would adopt the law, so that some new policies can be implemented. I call upon you to put on the agenda by the end of this year, until the end of this term of office, this proposal of ours. If the government has any other better solutions than we suggest, we are prepared, of course, to accept those solutions, to open the conversation, but the fact is, and we could also hear from the minister in charge of these things, Minister Vulin, that he was talking about the need for better targeted assistance that the state gives to socially endangered families and especially families with children. The measures are old. They have not been changed for nearly 10 years and the situation in Serbia has changed, and it is therefore necessary to amend this law in a way that those social groups that are particularly endangered get the country's greatest help. In the World Bank's analysis, the fact is that 18% of the funds are spent on one-fifth of the most vulnerable, and one-fifth of Serbia's richest citizens are spent 28% of the total budget for social contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9859	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9860	Thank you, Your Honor. The law on culture, when it was on the agenda of the last call, at the end of the last call, brought a few changes that we thought were not good at that time. This proposal of ours changes and additions goes in the direction of changing it. The first thing is to add the words artistic photography to the law. That's when one part of the public asked it to be part of the law, so that art photography would be declared a work of art. The Government's reply to this law, which says that the term visual art is broader and that this term has the term artistic photography in it and felt that it was not good enough and that the solution from other countries' practices, is specifically talked about artistic photography, as one specific part of culture. The second and most likely most interesting part is about the right to obtain recognition for a top-notch contribution to national culture. That part, if you remember the debate, was first to be completely kicked out of the law, and then the pressure on the public and I can't say debates in parliament, because we didn't have a debate here, but the minister proposed amendments to the law before the start of the debate and left the possibility of granting special recognitions for a top-notch contribution to national culture, but in cases set by the Government by its regulation. What we think is not good, to leave any arbitration here, and that the government decides whether or not someone deserves a special reward, and we believe that a solution should be applied, as in the case of top athletes. We believe that sport for Serbia's promotion is equally important, as is the importance of culture. Because if we give prizes to top athletes, it certainly is necessary to give rewards to top cultural workers. In this regard, we believe that this matter is not the place to be governed by the Government regulation, because this Regulation can be applied. She talks about how awards can be awarded, not necessarily awarded, as is the case with athletes. That is why we believe that it is necessary to amend the law, so clearly in the law, to formulate under what conditions and in which cases cultural workers who make a top contribution to national culture gain the right to this prize, as well as in what amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9861	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9862	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I think the importance of amending this law is particularly important if we look at last week's debate in a budget-related parliament where there's a lot of talk about how the government treats public sector employees. What is our first objection to the law passed at the beginning of this year, not indirectly before the last parliamentary elections, is the definition of the public sector. According to this law, public enterprises, which are the founder of the republic, local self-government and AP, as well as both NBS and public service, have not been included in the public sector under this law. We think it's the first and biggest drawback of this law. We were able to see how the government, without some clear criteria for 2017, increased salaries, about 6%, about 5%, about 4%, in some cases, did not increase at all, primarily for government employees, in state authorities, in local self-government and autonomous provinces. While we were having a budget debate here, it was, for example, called the Belgrade Airport Assembly, which had one item on the agenda, which is the adoption of the employee stimulation programme. Employees who are in a monopoly company, who has earned a profit because they are the only service provider in Serbia. As an airport, there is no competition, which has been illegally employed by hundreds of workers, and we have had this in the reports of both DRI and other bodies. Now, this company, which has apparently an excess of money in its account, is having no problem considering the employee stimulation program. During that time, government workers have not been able to raise salaries for the second year in a row. All others are still less than what was taken from them two years ago, when the pay cuts are 10% for all who receive salaries above 25,000 dinars. We believe that order must be put in place, that if we want to introduce final order in this public sector, we need to include public enterprises. They are and when we discussed the budget we could hear, the main source of the deficit that we will have in this and next year. That's why I'm asking you to put this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9863	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on value added tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9864	Thank you, Your Honor. For the first time, the SDS-NPS parliamentary group proposed this law on 15 September 2015. This is a small change of law that suggests that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate of extra value. So instead of 20, which is now at 10%. I am pleased to see that even some other parliamentary groups are involved in this initiative and believe that the time has come for the state to take some active measures and active policies to change the demographic situation in Serbia. These numbers, almost every session and by various points of the agenda, one of the fellow MPs is touched. The fact today is that despite such a bad situation, baby food, and primarily baby equipment in Serbia, is more expensive than in the surrounding countries. I think it's a devastating fact and it's necessary for the government to introduce some active measures. It is not enough that we now have a Deputy Prime Minister in charge of demographic issues, which has also received some budgets in the following year, which need to come up with some measures and policies that are going to change, given that I repeat, they are going to go to elections, the question is what of the programme and the plan will be done and when the measures proposed will come to the agenda. We have a few weeks until the end of this session, I'm afraid there will be no more time and debates in this House, we'll go to elections, and then we'll wait for a new government, who knows how long and the question is when Parliament will be able to start working on the government's proposals. Since there is one law, this small measure, I think it is even in the interest of the ruling majority to show that it understands that there is a problem in Serbia and that the state has some mechanisms that can go into solving this problem. This measure certainly cannot solve the problem. I do not agree with the government's opinion that it has delivered an answer to the bill, with a proposal not to accept it. An explanation of why it is not accepted, because this reduction in the tax rate would not necessarily lead to a reduction in the price of baby food. We think that if this government believes so much in the market and the market economy, it's absolutely certain that every baby food producer would use the opportunity to cheaper their product to be more competitive, to make more traffic, and that prices would certainly fall at least for the percentage of how much VAT they would reduce, and we believe more space can be found there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9865	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law Proposing Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9866	This law was first proposed also on 15 September last year and I think this time has passed since then only gives us the right to ask for one of these laws to be passed in Serbia's legal system. This meeting today is an illustrative example, of 22 points, of how many the ruling majority have so far accepted to be on the agenda, 18 are proposed by emergency procedure. The budget law was passed last week, was also put on the agenda by emergency procedure and was adopted only after seven days. So it was adopted in seven days, and we had less than two days to prepare. Five days of discussion and finally we adopted a budget that would have to be in the assembly procedure at least 15 days before the adoption, to come to the Assembly on November 1st of each year. But that wasn't the case. This way of working brings uncertainty into Serbia's legal system, discourages people who want to invest in Serbia and develop businesses, because they do not know whether and how the legal framework in which they work will be changed. In developed countries, both democratic and economically developed, these things don't happen. There must be reasons for an emergency procedure, and we define by this law what the reasons are. It is simply not possible, like today when the chairman opened the session, to hear that for reasons of urgency we are today discussing the laws by emergency procedure, without in one single word explaining what is urgent. Is it urgent that today the term of office, for example, the judges of the Constitutional Court, and we are just beginning to debate the candidates and we will not have a constitutional court in Serbia for a few days? If it's urgent, and it is urgent, let's see why it happened, who's responsible for it, and how these things don't happen anymore. This law goes exactly in that direction, to define which reasons for an emergency procedure, to be reasoned and to be met certain conditions, not only to be written that the Government considers that this should be adopted by an emergency procedure and that it is a practical and reason for breach of the Constitution and the Constitution of the prescribed time limit and how the laws are adopted in the Assembly and when the laws enter into force. I will remind you, almost as a rule, the laws, instead of the eighth day after the publication, take effect on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9867	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Arrangement of Pensions Payments, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9868	And this law in this assembly was passed, as you said, on October 7th of this year, but for the first time we filed it on September 15th 2015. I have to admit one thing, we're going to have to make amends to this law, because the name of the law is about the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, and we saw in the debate on the budget and on the amendments and additions to this law that the word "temporary" is no longer valid. The government gave up and definitely gave up the concept that this law was valid for three years or less, as they announced when it was adopted, and extended its validity indefinitely. I hope that the new Constitutional Court, however elected, is now that circumstances have changed and that law is no longer a temporary character, will take into consideration its constitutionality and put it out of force. What I am pleased to see, and I know that MP Bozovic is a while ago in front of the DS and now Mr Obradovic in front of his parliamentary group I propose a similar law, a law that should correct the great injustice that was done two years ago when pensions with an explanation were reduced that this is a way to achieve fiscal consolidation. Now, after two years, we see that this measure was neither necessary, nor has it led to budget cuts, and unfortunately there are huge places where citizens' money is being spent irrationally and where it is possible to save 20 billion dinars a year, as for 750,000 pensioners, 20% or 25%, and not 5.8% as the prime minister here said, because it's not true. The law speaks of reducing pensions of more than 25,000 dinars by 20% or more than 40,000 dinars by 25%. Our bill states that from the moment of adoption of this law, the pension payments from the level that existed before the reduction have been made, that the difference has been achieved, that is to say, that the difference between pensioners whose pension is reduced is paid in the next six months through one-off payments from the budget. We think there's enough room in the budget to find 20 billion dinars, how much this measure saved the budget. These are the items of subsidies to foreign investors which are performed transparently, contracted services, specialised services and other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9869	Thank you, fellow Djurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9870	Thank you. This law has been in the process for almost a year now. What has been my great concern is what will happen since the beginning of next year when one year's support for the Public Media Service from the Republic of Serbia's budget was announced. I was wrong to say, and it was seen that this support would continue by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget next year. In fact, we adopted a budget last week that again with four billion dinars gives RTS funds. There are additional funds for the Public Media Service in Vojvodina. It is obvious that the government decided that in the election year 2017 it would reward, under the allegations, the Public Media Service, buy its loyalty and support in the campaign that awaits us, by keeping funding from the budget. I expect and hope, i.e. I do not expect that there will be a change in the amount of tax payable from 1 January this year, amounting to 150 dinars. I was afraid that this tax would be raised to a maximum of 500 dinars. If the budget doesn't stop funding, even if the citizens have the good news there's no reason to increase this fee. We'll see by the end of the year if anything changes, it's in the hands of the Public Media Service Management Board. What is the essence of this law is that it defines more precisely who is the payer of the tax, that it can be only one time a natural person and a legal person, that we do not have cases like today, that after the charge is done over an electric number, again as that famous tax which the SNS has announced will be abolished, so it took more than two years to abolish it, and then, not a full year and a half after the suspension, it is returned as a burden to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it is not paid on an electric number that the same natural person has on the house, on the garage, on the auxiliary facility, on other things, but that this tax can only be paid on a residential facility in which the natural person lives. I urge you to vote and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9871	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – six against – one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2016. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9872	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this direct transmission, helps all. Namely, the Dvori, looking at the interests of the pensioners of Serbia, who are one of the most endangered social categories and, of course, fulfilling their pre-election promise under the Social Partnership Agreement that we have concluded with the Association of the Union of Pensioners of Serbia and the Association of the Unions of Retired Military Persons, have submitted two laws to the assembly procedure, i.e. amendments and additions to existing laws, which should correct the injustice committed to pensioners two years ago, when the SNS went into an organized robbery of legal, or obtained pensions. In this proposal to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act, we envisioned, above all, the harmonisation of pension levels with price increases in the state of Serbia. In fact, the reasons for the adoption of this law stem from Article 70. The constitution stipulating the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to care for the economic security of pensioners. The government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to regularly coordinate pensions because, otherwise, pensioners would be brought into an unfavourable financial and social position because of an inflationary reduction in the actual value of their pensions. So, what did you, gentlemen of progressors, do two years ago when you changed the existing law and the way you paid your pension? You have also abolished the provision under which pensions must regularly comply with the cost of living, i.e. with price increases over one calendar year. You have suspended this with your legal solution and have done great damage to the pensioners in Serbia. With our proposal to amend and supplement the law, we ask for the return of that provision of the law by which, of course, future pensions will be brought into line with the cost of life, or the rise in prices. The other important thing that these legal changes provide for is to fix something else that you have ruined in this law, which is to change the way you choose the board of directors of the PIO Fund. With the former 21 members, you have reduced to seven members of the Management Board and, of course, out of those seven, you have asked four to propose the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thereby taking full control of the PIO Fund. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that now that you are ruling the PIO fund, you are putting our medicinal spas on sale, our sources, therefore, the most healing resorts in Serbia and you want to sell and privatise it. You wouldn't be able to do that if the law that we are proposing was in force, under which the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund would return to 15 members, where five members would be given representatives of pensioners, so those who are users of the PIO Fund and five representatives of employees, so those who are filling the PIO Fund. You would no longer have a majority and do whatever you want with the property of the PIO fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9873	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9874	Respected Serbian citizens, at the previous assembly meeting of the ruling majority, led by the SNS, rejected the proposal by the Dvora to find our proposal for a resolution on the independent state genocide of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Here, until this moment, we have failed to get an explanation which is why the ruling majority, which is why any MP, which is why any Serb and Serbian citizen would reject this motion for a resolution. Here is to read to you what this resolution contains, so the citizens of Serbia will conclude why the SNS rejected this: Under one, that the crimes of the Ustasha against Serbs, Jews and Roma during the Second World War in the Independent State of Croatia were designed and planned genocide, as defined by the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 9 December 1948; Two, in the implementation of this genocide, it was only in the Jasenovna system of Croatian concentration camps for the extermination of Serbs, Jews and Roma and non-insistants tortured, raped, raped and then killed by the 5th Independent State of Croatia, 23,000 Serbs and 80 000 Roma, the only because of their belonging to another people, religion or race; under three, that the country's main state of Croatia was the town of the Stariška verva, which is the only one of the population of Croatia's population in the town of Croatia7. So, honourable fellow Members of the people, on behalf of the Serbian death in the 20th century, in the name of the truth and in the domestic public and in the international public about our 20th century, especially the genocide that we have survived in the Independent State of Croatia, I ask that after so many decades this topic finally come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we all adopt a resolution on the NDH genocide of Serbs, most of all over the Serbs, that we finally tell that truth to the whole world because it is pointless to expect the international public to support and spread that truth, if that truth cannot be heard at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I urge you to reconsider and support this proposal by Dvori.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9875	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process, from the date of the opening of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2016. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9876	Thank you. Here's another proposal from the Dvora that I don't see a single reason why we all wouldn't accept together. In fact, it is a matter of forming a assembly polling committee to examine what was actually going on in the last elections, the extraordinary, parliamentary, the republican elections held in Serbia. This is especially because the SNS has just tabled a similar proposal by Aleksandar Martinovic, and of course refused to come to the agenda with its own proposal, which makes it clear that the SNS is giving up its request to form a polling committee, giving up its claims, as the Prime Minister and many officials said in his time, that at least one parliamentary list was forced into the Assembly. So, gentlemen of the Progressives, if at least one parliamentary group or list is pushed into this assembly, why don't we form a committee of inquiry to determine that? Why not determine who entered the congregation illegally? Does this mean that someone's mandates are illegal? Does this mean that the entire National Assembly is illegal, and so are you sitting here? If you have any evidence, why don't you support our proposal to form a survey board. Of course you won't support him. And you know why you won't support him? Because you're afraid of the truth about the election theft you've done in the previous election. Here's what actually happened back then. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, informed the public on April 24th from the SNS party premises by means of public information that, I quote, three parliamentary lists will not cross the censorship. So Aleksandar Vucic determines who will cross the censorship in Serbia, which put pressure on RIK's work and caused a series of later irregularities in the process of determining the election results. And here, I'll give you just one. On 16 June 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that elections in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija were practically contrary to the law. And you've held the same election instructions in 2016. So, you worked against the Constitutional Court decisions and again illegally held elections in Kosovo and Metohija, without participants in the elections having the opportunity to have their own members of election committees in Kosovo and Metohija. So, you're talking about regular elections? How can anyone trust you to count our votes honestly? Of course you were stealing. Of course, if you hadn't counted our votes fairly, otherwise you'd have let us have members of the election board, so we could count the votes together, so let's see who counted the votes. Perhaps now for the presidential elections you will introduce that the opposition is nowhere in the polling stations without members of the election board, and that you are then all over Serbia, as you did in Kosovo and Metohija, counting votes. So, if you may, vote to form a assembly survey committee, prove you're right, or be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9877	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against –no one, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the way pensions were paid, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2016. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9878	Dear citizens of Serbia, especially our oldest citizens and pensioners, this amendment and the addition of the law that Dvori is proposing is essential to all of you. What exactly is the background of this proposal? By one, to abolish this disastrous law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, which robbed pensioners in Serbia, because don't forget, someone may be increasing your pensions now on the spoon, but the Retirement Act continues. It's been over two years, they're still robbing you. So this is no temporary way of paying off pensions, because it takes more than two years and continues to last in 2017. So, the pensioner's robbery continues by the government of Alexander Vukic. What's that robbery look like? A pensioner who had 30,000 dinar pensions has been robbed of 25,000 dinars in these two years. A pensioner who has 40,000 pensions has been robbed of 48 thousand dinars in these two years. A pensioner who has 50,000 dinars has been robbed of 79,000 dinars in these two years. Or, say, a pensioner who has 60,000 dinar pensions, his SNS has robbed 119 thousand dinars in these two years. Overall, you are respected advances, to be heard by Serbian citizens, robbed 69.63 billion, I apologize, or close to 515m euros in these two years. There is no bigger robbery in Serbia than the robbery of pensioners, carried out by the SNS. That is why Dvori, fulfilling their obligation to our partners from the Association of Retired Unions of Serbia and the Union of Retired Military Persons of Serbia, propose amendments to this law, abolish and return everything that has lasted in the next two years, as long as the pensioners have been robbed. It's the fulfillment of our pre-election promise to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9879	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—nine, against—no one, abstentioned—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint uniform search on: Proposal for a candidate for Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the President of the Republic of Serbia on 24 November 2016; Proposal for a list of Judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, who submitted the President of the National Court of Justice, Maja Gojković, 9 December 2016; Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges in the Order of the Court of Justice, which was appointed by the President of the Republic of Serbia on 23 November 2016; Proposal for a decision on the decision of the Court of Justice, which was first elected by the members of the High Court of Justice, on 3 November 2016; Proposal for a decision on the Court of Justice of Justice of the Presidents of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union of the European Union of the Europeans, adopted the European Union of the European Union for the European Union for the European Union of the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Court for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Court for the Court for the Court for the Council for the Council for the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council for the Council for the Court of the Court of the Council for the Court of the Council for the Council for the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of The second, joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted by the Government on 6 December 2016; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted by the Government, 6 December 2016 and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Waters, which was submitted by the Government on 22 December 2016; the Third, Joint Principles on the Transport of Dangerous Water, which was governed by the Law on the Management of the Airports, which was submitted by the Government, 6 December 2016; the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Maintenance of Public Works, which was submitted by the Government on 22 November 2016; the Proposal for the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Water, which was adopted by the Treaty on 26 October 2016 on the European Parliament and adopted by the Charter of the European Parliament on the Europeans, adopted by the European Parliament, adopted by the Council on 1 December 2016. Does MP George Komlensky want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against –16, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure, which was proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, held on 24 November 2016, the Proposal for laying down the List of Judges of the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, who submitted the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 9 November 2016; - 2nd Joint Search on: Proposal for a decision on a member of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice from the Order of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, which was appointed by the President of the Republic of Republic of Slovenia, who submitted the draft decision on the selection of judges for the first time at the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice, which was submitted to the High Council of Justice on 3 November 2016, the proposal for a decision of the Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, which was adopted by the Court of Serbia on 7th and adopted by the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the first and the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court and the Court of the Court and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of 27 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9880	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I have so far failedly pointed to Article 157's injury. Rules of Procedure, Rule 2, which speaks of the possibility of bringing together the agenda points, to try to change the bad practice of this Assembly to bring together the points contrary to this member of the Rules of Procedure and that I have never received the support of other fellow Members, I have now proposed that we hold a debate in this sitting in a different way, respecting the fact that we have some proposals on the choice of judges or on the termination of the functions of judges, on board membership and parliamentary bodies in international institutions, where the Serbian Parliament has its representatives, I have proposed a different agenda proposal, thinking that we will conduct a more quality discussion in this way. My proposal is to discuss these 22 points of the agenda in six separate continents. I believe that the first united debate and on the judges of the Constitutional Court is impossible to lead in quality together with the debate on the choice of judges, let's say a misdemeanor court and together with the debate on the election of members of the Serbian Parliament's delegations in parliamentary bodies. I think we should break up with that bad union and unification practice. Just pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedures in unifying as proposed by the ruling majority did not come across the understanding and support of fellow MPs, I decided in this other way to try to convince you that we can do more logically and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to unite the debate, to gain quality of the debate, to maybe just spend a little more time, and to have a better discussion that will ultimately lead to a better decision. I urge you to adopt this proposal. I believe that in this case we will be only winning, that we will discuss more quality each of these topics, and the judges of the Constitutional Court and the judges who are first elected to the judicial public office and how committees are formed and functioned in the Serbian Parliament and our parliamentary delegation. I agree to bring together a debate on a set of laws relating to agriculture, but I don't think international agreements have anything to do with the Housing Act or the Community Labour Act, which are united in a single debate. I think a day or two more work, we'll only get quality and we'll all end up getting adoption of one of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9881	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9882	Article 157(2) – The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or interlinked. Explain to me how mutually conditioned or linked housing laws, airports, confirmation of international contracts, municipal activities? What are you doing this for? It's more than obvious that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're trying to shorten the debate. Why do you allow these points of the agenda to be united that have nothing to do with each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9883	Since I am obliged to answer, my colleague Radulovic certainly knows that every piece of paper that has been handed over, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and should be found at a statement by the MPs, must be found. The National Assembly has decided to unite the debate and thus cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, for it is not an individual’s decision. The National Assembly brought this Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly of Interprets. (Sasa Radulovic, from the post: How about we decide to take all the money from your wallet? ) Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and proposals for bringing the debate together, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I'm closing the vote. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of the MPs established the agenda of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 200(2), Article 201(2), Article 202(2) and Article 192(3) and Article 157(2) respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a candidate for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the President of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic, who was tabled by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the High Council of Judges of the Court Judges, which was submitted by the High Court of Justice Council; Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who were first elected to the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the President of the Court of Justice of Justice, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, the National Court of Justice, the National Assembly of the House of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft decision on the President of the President of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the President of Croatia on the President of Croatia. Now I'm setting a 10-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9885	Mr Arsic, a member of the 96th Rules of Procedure has been violated, and in accordance with Rule 112. The RS Constitution. Article 112, point 4, says - the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly the holders of functions in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which you can testify that we are in the material that we received from the Secretary-General, President Nedjeljko Tomovic, although it is not very defined there, writes - I am submitting to you the proposal from the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges, I believe. And today it's supposed to appear here, but it's illiterate, because here it turns out that the President of the Republic is proposed for the Constitutional Court Judge, but alas, and on the other hand, then the Proposer here should appear and then say, "Article 96, that he should get the word, and so on." Now, what is irrefutable and unquestionably true is the question of the further discussion of our ongoing conduct of this meeting, is whether the reason for the failure of the President of the Republic is because the subject of the Constitutional Court judge, because as we know, a man who has a forged, or purchased diploma, is a man who stole mandates, a man who illegally made the cottages, not only does he not deserve, but has so far had to resign several times at the office of the President of the Republic, but is a disgrace to disrespect this Parliament. He had to be here today in front of us to explain the suggestions he sent us in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9886	In Article 96, this is a united debate, we have more proposings. As far as your objections to article 112 are concerned, The RS Constitution, we are not in charge of us as the National Assembly to decide on a violation of the Constitution, so we do not have the opportunity to intervene on this matter. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. Natasha Spa. Jovanovic: Mr Arsic, I would like to ask you, I am reporting by article 27. Rules of Procedure, don't deceive the public. True, we have several promoters, one of whom Tomislav Nikolic, who made a proposal for the Constitutional Court judges, asked for his presence Mr. Miljan Damjanovic, and as far as I know, you are not Maja Gojkovic, you are one of the six vice presidents, and you are currently replacing her. Also, the president of the assembly was supposed to be here, as a proposal for a single number, because, in order for the public to know, on December 9th, Mrs Gojkovic sent this act with the consent of all the candidates proposed by the parliamentary groups to appoint the proposed 10 candidates, five judges from this list. Mr. Tomic is quite justified here, at the invitation of the National Assembly, as elected member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges, because we have received notice that the President of the High Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Milojevic, has been prevented from coming. I believe that Mr Tomic, in accordance with his powers, will only be able to speak about those candidates who are elected to judicial functions in some other courts, whose proposal we have here in a united debate. In order to obtain working conditions, you must ensure the presence and the other two motions, because the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court that you are currently working on, I would say, on the neck of your nose, you waited for the last moment even though the SRS warned you that it was high time to think about it in September of the month, or early October, but even remember, if you follow closely, and I believe that when Mrs Radeta was 10 years old from the declaration of the Constitution of the RS, we do not have a Constitutional Court, because these have expired the mandate. That is exactly what happened and now, because in such a way we should, at the very least, elect the Constitutional Court judge, I ask you to act in accordance with Rules of Procedure and Article 96, because we only have Mr Tomic here to discuss the list he proposes. I would not agree with you, colleague Jovanovic. I think it's article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have not been broken. As you know, the National Assembly can, and has an obligation, only to insist on those representatives who it chooses. In this case, the President of the Republic is elected in direct elections, so it is his will and his right to decide whether he will be at this session or not. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about it? (No) Do any of the representatives, i.e. the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9888	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and here I am tied to two points of the agenda, given that the debate here is united, then as an authorised promoter, I will say more about the proposal to elect an election member of the High Council of Justice, from the order of the Court of Appeals. That's one item on the agenda. The second point is – The choice of judges of the General Court in Ub, i.e. a proposal for a choice for the judge of the General Court in Gornji Milanovac. As is known, the provision of Article 22. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, a member of the council is prescribed to be elected from the ranks of judges of the Court of Appeals. As Article 21 of the same law stipulates that the decision to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates is made by the President of the Council at least six months before the term of office of election members, which is therefore on 5 September 2016, the President of the High Council of the Judiciary has made such a decision. The entire election procedure was conducted by the Electoral Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary in elections for the election member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals, two candidates participated, and that was Dragana Boljevic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and Aleksandar Pantic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis. The elections held with 95.61% of the total number of judges who perform judicial duties in the appeals courts, and after the elections, it was found that 81 judges voted for Dragana Boljevic, or 38.76, out of the total number of votes, and that a total of 128 judges voted for the judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis Aleksandr Pantic, or 61.24%, out of the total number of votes. Based on the results and provisions of Article 35. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, which provides that the Council proposes one candidate with the highest number of votes and on the basis of the minutes on the determination of the election results provided by the electoral commission, and the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to this National Assembly that a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice from the Court of Appeals should be elected by the Court of Appeal at Nis Alexander Pantic. Just a few words about a colleague. He worked as a lawyer from 1984 to 1998, and from 1998 to 2010, as a lawyer. During the practice of law enforcement, he performed several functions in the Bar Association, as a disciplinary judge, a member of the Board of Attorneys of Nis, the President of the Nis Bar, a member of Serbia's Steering Board, and from the Nish Bar, he also received a plaque as the highest recognition of the chamber. Otherwise, a colleague of Pantic was actively involved in the work of the Faculty of Law clinic in Nis. He was elected to the Court of Appeal in Nis in December 2009 and is in the court as vice-president of the Court of Appeal, Deputy President of the Court of Justice, President of the Civil Department and President of a Civil Court Council. At the Judicial Academy, he regularly lectures as part of the professional training of judges in the area of the Court of Appeal in Nis. Based on everything I've presented to the High Council, considering the results of the vote in the elections, it suggests to the Assembly that you elect a fellow Judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis as an election member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, from the order of the judges of the Court of Appeals. This is about this proposal relating to this item of the agenda. How, I understand that this is a united debate, I will only be in short lines regarding the proposal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, concerning the proposals concerning the election of judges of the General Court in Ubb and the proposal concerning the election of judges of the General Court in Gornji Milanovac. It is known that the High Council of the judiciary is in accordance with Article 47. The Law on Judges, first in "The Official Messenger", and then in the daily "Politics" of 19 May 2016, announced the choice of judges for the Court of Justice in Ubb, for the purpose of filling one of the court seats and the Court of Justice in Gornji Milanovac, for the purpose of filling a court seat. In the process of proposing candidates for the election of judges, the High Council of the judiciary is based on Article 52. The Rules of Procedure of the Commission, I have said this before at these meetings of the Assembly, that the task of these committees is to assess the most timely application, to hold talks with candidates who have applied for the election and to assess whether these candidates meet the criteria and criteria for the election. The High Council of the Judiciary for all candidates reported, noting that 24 candidates have applied for Ub, of which 21 judges, the other three candidates, and that a total of 19 candidates have applied for the General Court in Gornji Milanovac, of which 13 judges, lawyers one and other candidates three. So, for all of them, an opinion on the expertise, the skills, the dignity to perform this judicial function has been provided. The candidates who come from the courts, therefore, are expert associates, or judicial assistants, have been given the opinion of the Court's sitting and the opinion of the session of the Court of Justice directly. We've talked before that it's a key thing, is how judges judge the work of these judicial assistants so far. For non-judgmental candidates, such candidates were also given an opinion on the expertise, competence and dignity of the exercise of judicial office by the authorities and organisations in which they work, i.e. since there were lawyers here who applied for the choice that the opinion of the Bar Association was obtained, in which the register was otherwise registered. 5 The Commission held a conversation with all candidates who applied for an election ad, and on the basis of the report of the committees formed, taking into account the opinions delivered from the meetings of all judges, candidates who encourage and where they work, the VSS is estimating the provisions of Article 43. Laws on Judges and Provisions of Articles 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Decisions on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, qualified and worthy of the choice of judges and president of courts, have been proposed and have already been obtained in materials, to elect Nenad Djukić, Judge at the Court of Justice in Ubb, as judge of the Court of Justice. Since we only have two candidates, I'll just say a few sentences. He was born in 1979, completed the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, with a general success of 8.29, first working as a volunteer, then as a judicial assistant. He passed a judicial exam in 2009. He worked first at the basic court in Valjevo until January 2014. And since January 2014, he has been assigned to the workplace of a judicial associate at the Court of Justice in Ubb, where he has since 1 March 2014, among other things, carried out the tasks of the Secretary of the General Court and, in addition, made decisions on criminal matter, carried out the tasks of the Media and Preparation and Legal Affairs Coordinator and all that is important as preparation for the decision-making process, i.e. the trial in concrete cases. What is very important is that for 2013, 2014 and 2015 the highest estimates are assessed. These are the estimates “of particular importance”. Another thing that is important for this candidate is that Nenad Djukic, according to all the judges of the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received, which is extremely significant, given that the Court of Appeal is an institutionally higher court compared to the courts in which counterpart Djukic used to work. When it comes to the candidate for Gornji Milanovac, the VSS suggested that the candidate be Darko Raskovic. It is a user of initial training at the Justice Academy, which was born in 1985 in Kragujevac. He graduated law school with a score of 8.71. We see that both candidates have completed colleges with an extremely high average. First he worked as an intern at the lawyer's office, then continued to work as a judicial intern at the Kragujevac Court of Commerce. He passed the judicial exam in 2012 and then continued to work in the same court. Since 1 December 2013, he has established a working relationship at the Judicial Academy, and has passed the final exam of the Academy on 1 July 2016, with the highest rating of 5.00 and was then assigned to the Department of Economic Disputes at the Business Court in Kragujevac. According to the Director of the Judicial Academy, therefore, it is an institution in which the candidate has so far performed and whose opinion is very relevant, candidate Darko Raskovic is professional, trained and worthy of the performance of the judicial post and fully fulfils all the conditions. These are all the parameters and facts VSS has in mind. By estimating all these work results, all opinions and all other parameters in their generality, it came to the conclusion that, unequivocally, it unanimously proposes these two candidates for the primary court in Ubba and the second for the Supreme Court in Gornji Milanovac, with the belief that if elected, therefore, if the National Assembly supports this proposal of the VSS, it will provide the best results and help to improve the results of the work in these courts and that the courts will be more efficient and up-to-date. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9889	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? Do the officials of the defense want a word? Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9890	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will support all proposals that are ahead of us today in the day of the vote. I am not going to talk about some proposals because it is a matter of technical nature, such as accepting the resignation of the President of the Criminal Court in Loznica and the President of the General Court in Krusevec and resolving the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade because of the election of Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. So it's a matter of more technical nature and I don't think it's necessary to waste words. When it comes to elections, i.e. proposals from the High Council for the selection of the judge of the Court of First Instance in Ub and the General Court in Gornji Milanovac, so-called three-year-olds, i.e. the choice of judges who were first elected to the judge's office, Mr Tomic very comprehensively explained the candidates. I was also present as chairman of the board at the High Judicial Council, and I can say here that the VSS unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that these candidates be elected judges of the General Court in Gornji Milanovac and the General Court in Ub. It's about candidates who deserve to get a chance and be elected judges of these two mentioned courts. There have been other candidates, but the Commission has defined in the talks that these two candidates are proposed by the High Council of the judiciary and I propose that we choose them, i.e. to support this proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. When it comes to candidates for the Constitutional Court, it is two types of candidates, namely, we have eight candidates who were proposed by the President of the Republic and we need in the day to vote to define ourselves as four candidates. As far as the Single Serbia parliamentary group is concerned, we will define ourselves as those candidates we consider to have earned their work as judges of the Constitutional Court. Here, as I said, there are eight candidates. The Single Serbia MP club can be pleased to find out that there are really good candidates, such as Prof. Dr. Milan Škulic, professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade Miroslav Nikolic, President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Snezana Markovic, deputy member of the republical public prosecutor in Belgrade and other candidates. Unfortunately, we can only choose four. When it comes to proposing 10 candidates to the President of the Republic, which of those 10 should elect five judges of the Constitutional Court, I only have one remark on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club to make here in general. It's that among the 18 candidates we have here on the list in front of me, as far as I've been able to read their rich biographies, 14 are from Belgrade. Only four candidates are outside Belgrade, one is from Panchev, one is from Sevojn, one is from Palic and the fourth, it doesn't matter where, but I know it's not from Belgrade. I ask one question on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club to all of us – is it possible that all legal brains are concentrated in Belgrade and that out of 18 candidates 14 are from Belgrade? I don't care where he was born, he was born 50 years ago, but he built his career in Belgrade and lives in Belgrade. Is it possible in Nis, who has a university, that in Kragujevac, who also has a university, that in Uzic, I mean there are also no candidates in my Pomoravlje who have acquired the right to at least be candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court? They don't have to be chosen, I guess they've shown some of their work so far, proved themselves there in their legal science, legal profession, etc. I have no right and I will not as an MP for the Single Serbia to challenge any of these candidates, I believe that all good candidates, regardless of what the majority of them are from Belgrade, that their rich biographies show that they deserve to be candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, but I'm just asking one principled question. We also want the province to be simple, so to use that expression, that Serbia has more candidates than Belgrade does. Belgrade is part of Serbia. I have nothing against Belgrade, but, please, there are many good lawyers, doctors of science, people who have proven themselves in other cities outside of Belgrade. Let out of 18 candidates be 12 from within Serbia, and six, for example, from Belgrade. Again, all these candidates here are good candidates and deserve to be candidates, but I ask the question – why are there no more candidates outside Belgrade? I think that they are, in some ways, guilty of the parliamentary groups that have proposed candidates, so they have mostly proposed candidates from Belgrade. So, to conclude, the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support these lists, but this principled attitude should be taken into account for next elections, simply a little bit of power over Belgrade and simply say that in Serbia, within Serbia, there are more candidates in Vojvodina who deserve to be at least candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. To conclude, the Single Serbia Parliament Club will identify in the voting day which candidates will support being elected Judges of the Constitutional Court, i.e. to be candidates for the Constitutional Court judges elected by the President of the Republic, and I do not think that technical matters should be discussed. To conclude once again, I don't think it should happen in the future that the people who resign at the seats of the president of the courts are waiting six or seven months to be relieved of these functions, such as the case of the judge, the President of the General Court in Kruševec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9891	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9892	Thank you, Chairman. A few fellow Members of Parliament, I think it is extremely inappropriate for me to have such an important topic of choice for the Constitutional Court's candidates lead us in such an atmosphere, without a single word of the motion that will explain the proposal. Is that in the case of those candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, he who had to explain his proposal here why he believes that these eight people who are proposing to the Assembly of the best eight candidates that the President of the Republic could find as candidates for the Constitutional Court of Serbia at the moment, or by a list that we as the National Assembly will determine and send to the President of the Republic to choose five, to hear from the President who sent us this list of 10 parliamentary groups that sent this proposal, how many candidates were there, whether there were only these 10 or more, and then who, as well as by what criteria has cut this list to 10, because we need today to establish a list of 10 candidates. I would like to know, firstly, which is the parliamentary group of which of these candidates has proposed and how many candidates have been proposed and by what criteria we have come to these 10 names. I think this debate deserves at least that much information. The Constitutional Court judges are elected for nine years. So, when we finish this election, we will practically choose the majority in the Constitutional Court for the next nine years and thus choose the authority that should be the highest court in Serbia and the most important cases in the next nine years will come to a decision there. I think it's a special day in parliament and a special act that doesn't deserve such an atmosphere and a beginning like this, because we've heard more words and sentences about the election of judges who are first elected to court in Ubbe, I think. I think it's inappropriate to hear about why some judge should be elected Judge in Ubba, and we won't hear a word from the motionary, because they're not here, about the judges of the Constitutional Court. I think that's how we send a message as to how this ruling majority sees this future Constitutional Court. He doesn't see him as an independent body, a body that will primarily be devoted to defending the Constitution, human rights and basic democratic values, but will be a body that should be supporting the executive government, which, unfortunately, has been the Constitutional Court lately. A number of cases since 2012 until today, the Constitutional Court has given us the right to have such an assessment. So much earlier, it is questionable that we are expected to vote for those candidates who have been members of the Constitutional Court. But it's also a question – what about the others? Do they not have a desire to deal more with this most responsible business, as prominent lawyers, as the Constitution says, and so in only one sentence one quite broad criteria for selecting judges define. It is also a topic that should be discussed if we ever come to the opening of a political dialogue on the change of the Constitution. Is this a solution found in the Constitution good enough? Does the way the Constitutional Court judges are elected guarantee that we choose the most prominent lawyers or choose the obedient ones? In the proposal of these 18 candidates, there are no constitutional law professors from any state college. I think it's a special flaw. We have candidates who are public executives, we have candidates who work at the Official Messenger, we have lawyers, we have teachers from some private universities, but no professor of constitutional law from the state college. That seems to me another proof of how the ruling majority sees the Constitutional Court and its role in the future in the Republic of Serbia. I agree with a colleague who discussed how on this list of candidates we will refer to the President of the Republic, of ten, seven is from Belgrade, one is from Sevojn, one is from Subotica, or Palic, and one from Novi Pazar. On the other hand, of the eight candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, seven are from Belgrade, and only one is not, it is from Pancheva. I think it is one of the great faults of both these proposals and that Serbia certainly has prominent lawyers in university centres such as Nis and Kragujevac, but also in other cities. I think the important message would be that the composition of the candidates is the ones we're proposing, which we're going to choose different from what we're talking about today. Of course, this item of the agenda must be touched by the work of the Constitutional Court. Many of his judgments were, I say, controversial and welcome to the public in various ways and with different comments. In particular, it is an interesting fact for me, looking and preparing for this session, that, let's say, the Constitutional Court has declared the government's non-constitutional regulation of 2012 on the recognition of diplomas from Kosovo and Metohija which do not act according to Serbian regulations, believing that this is not possible under the Constitution, and then the Brussels Agreement, which had an impact on Serbia's legal ancestor, had consequences and that we are adopting interstate agreements here, where it appears as one of the signatories of Kosovo with the star, which was also agreed then in 2011, it was declared unauthorized and considered the Brussels agreement politically. I think that some other rulings made in 2012 also showed that the Constitutional Court was not an independent body, but was the body that was meant to support then the new government, criticising and deeming it unconstitutional some decisions made by the government and parliament by 2012. The Constitutional Court did not find it appropriate, i.e. it did not view the Law on the temporary reduction of pension payments as unconstitutional, citing a number of reasons, of which the last, final, is that the law is temporary, because it says in its title. However, we have seen that the government does not intend to limit the law, as it was proposed in the Assembly, to three years, but rather intends to keep it practically permanent, probably as long as the government manages and this parliamentary and political majority does so to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the majority will elect these nine judges, unfortunately, Serbian citizens cannot expect the Constitutional Court's decision to be changed. Because of this situation in the judiciary and such decisions of the Constitutional Court, Serbia is the country with the largest number of complaints from the International Court in Strasbourg, because citizens here feel they cannot protect their rights, cannot achieve protection and then, after the constitutional court's negative answers, they address the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg and from there they begin to arrive more and more often to give us judgments that speak about the state of our legal system and what decisions they make here, and all these decisions have a certain price, not only in terms of changing our laws, but also material obligations that the Republic of Serbia must fulfil. We think it is bad to continue this way, but yet these candidates, as proposed, do not put any confidence that this will change and will certainly not have the support of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- the People's Movement of Serbia. I found it interesting that among the candidates to be sent to the President of the Republic, there is also a director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It should probably be rewarded with a choice that the Agency will not examine for nearly five years and determine who paid for Mr. Giuliani's arrival in the 2012 campaign, since he himself said he was paid to come to the visit presented here to the citizens in the campaign to support the mayoral candidate, Mr. Alexander Vukic at the time. A report that the SNS then presented to the agency shows that a London firm paid for the press conferences, travel expenses, but not fee itself, although Mr Giuliani said he was paid for the visit to Belgrade. Then the question arises -- why didn't the agency want to deal with the case and the public of Serbia get an answer on who paid for it and what money did the arrival in the campaign pay for? They heard from the agency that there was no intention of the agencies to resent the new government and it is likely that the candidate director's award for not looking at the case for four years, as well as other numerous cases of abuse and enforcement of the anti-corruption law that we have witnessed in the last four years. The biographies that we have here, instead of the proposings, need to tell us something about the candidates we need to come forward with are interesting. You have a biographies of candidates with extensive legal professions. One candidate gave a biography on the 33rd page, with a number of scientific works in which he participated. Some biographies are only on two sides. In one biography, Mrs. Markovic has something that I have never seen before in my practice. At the end of the biography, instead of giving some scientific papers in which she participated, she said: "P.S. All these years, I've been working in Serbia's justice system, and I've had a lot of experience. “ I have to admit, for a professional biography, such a way of writing is something I first saw. Her résumé and him were challenged by the people, given that she participated in the ATP "Vojvodina" case and the verdict made in favour of a private enterprise and the involvement of now senior SNS officials in some past times in the affair. What I thought at the beginning of this session was that it was not good to have a united discussion that I now spent 14 minutes only on this topic which, of course, is extremely important, but I also want to say something about the choice of judges that we first choose. First of all, I would like to ask a question here, Mr. Tomic, who is the representative of the High Council of Justice's proposal, why it happened that a contest for the election of 58 judges who were to be first elected to office, a contest that was called on September 2nd and 7th, and had to be annulled because the High Judicial Council did not adopt a rule which he was obliged to bring by March 29th. Since we adopted the Law on Judges at the end of last year, which then predicted that there were no such criteria as Mr Tomic spoke about, talking to candidates, and some personal impressions, but then provided for a rule and according to that rule certain tests. Why did the High Council of Justice, why did it not fulfil the legal obligation and within 90 days for the adoption of that regulation, but only on November 15th of this year and thus endanger this competition which because the day was called, that is, seven days after it set out the deadline for applying these new rules, why did the competition have to be annulled and why are we now not discussing the selection of 58 new judges? Is not discussing it now going to make the courts work better and more efficiently, because it is absolutely certain that they will not. These 58 people who would have been chosen could have helped their colleagues work on a number of cases. We keep hearing about a large number of backlogs, these are some millions that are mentioned, who are suffocating our courts, which are why our judiciary is the most inefficient, constantly misjudged. Why and what was the problem with the High Council of Justice to do one job within 90 days, making one rule. It's completely inexplicable to me. Last time there was a debate here about judges being elected for the first time, I asked the question of drawing up integrity plans in courts, and is that what this is about, and why did it happen that we had judges elected in this House last year, and then a few months after that election, we had these courts arrested on charges of serious corruption charges? Are our courts dealing with the prevention of corruption in their work and how they deal? Apparently, the leak has corruption. That is, let me say, something that will come before the judicial authorities, but how we fight to prevent it and to pre-warn it. That's when I didn't get the answer. Of course, we didn't even support the first-time selection of new judges and we're not going to vote for these judges, not because we have something controversial against these two candidates, but because we're looking for an answer to these questions. We are looking for an answer to what is being done to prevent corruption, as well as to this answer as to why this rule was not adopted on time and why today we are choosing only these two judges for whom the competition was called in May of this year, and not this 58 that was due to be accepted at the contest called in September, which later had to be annulled. I also agree with a colleague who said it was unacceptable for me six months after a judge asked for a solution for personal reasons, health reasons, to discuss his shift six months later. We can accept that the elections were in April, but since June of the month when Parliament was established to date, it has been six months and I see no reason why this point has not come early on the agenda. Obviously there are some games, to be manipulated in some way and with these resignations and resolutions due to the resignations from me for completely inexplicable reasons. The way we chose the committees and delegations of the Serbian Parliament, because this is the last part of this united debate, we spoke several times. We believe that neither the committees are formed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the composition of those committees and the percentages of the participation of all parliamentary groups in them, and especially the chairman of the board, because only one committee is led, or two committees of 19 led by representatives of opposition parties, and should be at least one third. I think you should have shown democratic capacity and certainly half the seat of the committee chairman given to the opposition MPs. You've done what no majority has done here since 2000. I think that's one of the reasons why these committees don't function or function in the way we've seen the president of the SNS parliamentary group fail and maintain the Governing Board without giving the right to any member of the opposition to report for the word and debate. This is completely inappropriate and I think we need to talk about it, because I fear that such things will be repeated, and that is not good for democracy in Serbia and for the democratic work of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9893	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9894	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a united debate on several points of the agenda, it is a matter of several motions for decisions. The SVM-PDD parliamentary group will support the proposed decisions on the election of the president of the courts, the election of candidates for the first term of office for judges in regular courts, etc. What I would like to talk more about is a decision, namely a list of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or parliamentary groups, on the one hand and candidates of the President of the Republic for Judges of the Court of Justice. Of the eight candidates of the President of the Republic, the National Assembly elects four candidates, four judges of the Constitutional Court. Why do I consider this a more significant issue than any of the others we're discussing within this first item of the agenda? For two reasons, and the first reason is the length of the term of office of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to remind you that we Constitutional Court judges choose for nine years. Last time, the National Assembly elected judges of the Constitutional Court at the end of 2007. Since then, we have had two elections for the President of the Republic, we have had parliamentary elections in 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016, and we may also have next year. I am saying all of this in order to see how different the nature of the term of office of the Constitutional Court is from the term of office of the President of the Republic or of the Members of Parliament. Another reason why I think the choice of the Constitutional Court judges is a more important topic is the importance of the Constitutional Court as a body in the Republic of Serbia. For decades, the Constitutional Court has defended the Constitution on the one hand, i.e. human and minority rights, meaning the protector of the Constitution, more precisely and the protector of human and minority rights. In this country, the Constitutional Court was formed in 1963 and this is a significant fact because then Yugoslavia was the first among the countries of Eastern Europe in which the Constitutional Court was established, and the Constitutional Court decides on the consent of laws and other general legal acts with the Constitution, the consent of sublegal legal acts with the law and the Constitution, in addition, the Constitutional Court decides on the conflict of jurisdiction, resolves on constitutional complaints and prohibits the work of political parties, associations of citizens, trade union organisations, etc. The objective of the existence of a Constitutional Court in those countries where there is a limit on the rule of law, means parliament on the one hand and execution, or Government on the other. The main jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is the normative control of general acts. It is written in the science that the Constitutional Court is a negative legislator, not in a valuable sense, of course, but in the sense that Parliament adopts laws, and the Constitutional Court has jurisdiction that, if an assessment is carried out in the course of the procedure that some law or part of the law, or another general legal act, is not in accordance with the Constitution, it shall put out the general legal act, i.e. part of the law or other general legal act. And in that sense, the Constitutional Court is a negative legislator. It is often wrong to say that the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial authority or judicial authority. In that sense, of course, the Constitutional Court is not the highest judicial authority or not a judicial authority, it has these powers which I have spoken of and its decisions are final, executive and general binding. Why did I say all this, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court is not the subject of today's debate, but the subject of today's debate is the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court? Well, in order to underline once again that it is very important that the people chosen by the National Assembly, which will be appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the National Assembly, be men of professional integrity, be men worthy of being judges of the Constitutional Court in the coming years. I said the mandate lasts nine years, it's so according to the Constitution. This could possibly be different if a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted and the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution would, for example, be re-elected by judges of the Constitutional Court to choose again, or to shorten their mandate, and such cases were in legal history. So, since the Constitutional Court is the protector of the Constitution of one and the human and minority rights on the other hand, it is a very important body and it is seen that the Constitution has prescribed a lot of rigorous criteria for candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. First of all, the candidate has to be a prominent lawyer. I have to say right away in the parentheses that the flaw in the Constitution is, of course, nowhere does it say who appreciates it, in which way, based on which criteria who is a prominent lawyer. On the other hand, the candidate must be at least 40 years old, and on the third hand he must be at least 15 years old in the legal profession. The Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public or professional function or work, except for the profession in colleges, law schools in the Republic of Serbia. It is important and important that the current Constitution, now in force the Constitution prescribes that the Constitutional Court judge must be a lawyer and not only a lawyer, but a prominent lawyer. It may be understood, but I would also like to remind the MPs and the public that there have been cases not long ago in the history of this institution that the judges of the Constitutional Court were elected persons who were not lawyers, but were, for example, lawyers. A graduate economist. The Constitutional Court judge, of course, cannot be a member of the political party, or is resolved if he becomes a member of the political party. That's what the Constitutional Court Act says. What has not been mentioned in the debate so far is a constitutional provision under which, from each of the proposed lists of candidates, it means from the list of candidates of the President of the Republic of Serbia and from the list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at least one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of the autonomous provinces. I would like to note, since that was not the case, there were geographical facts, from which cities the candidates, or where they live, come from, that on both lists we have only one candidate who is from the territory of the Autonomous provinces and in both cases it is about candidates who have a residence in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. From the list of the President of the Republic, we have candidate Miroslav Nikolic, president of the Court of Commerce, who has a residence in the territory of the city of Pančev, means, in the area of the AP Vojvodina, and on the other list of candidates from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have candidate Dr Thomas Korhec, who is resident in Palic, same in the area of the AP Vojvodina. So, in their case, the choice is practically guaranteed because they do not have competition in terms of the provision of a constitution that prescribes that one of the selected candidates from both lists must be from the territory of autonomous provinces. I would also like to note that not all parliamentary groups have proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. That's one fact. Each parliamentary group, of course, has made a decision whether or not, if they will, to whom they will run for this significant function. One of the previous speakers noticed that there were no candidates who were professors of constitutional law at state law schools. That's what I consider a flaw. In the current term of the Constitutional Court, we had a professor. Oliver Vukic, of the University of Belgrade Law Faculty, and we had a professor. Dragan Stojanovic, from the Faculty of Law at Nis University. I think there are people of professional, moral integrity who would be good not only candidates, but also judges of the Constitutional Court of State Law, who are professors of constitutional law or constitutional lawyers, as they used to say, e.g. Vladan Petrov, Tanasije Marinkovic, Irena Pejic or Slobodan Orlovic, but they are not proposed to judge the Constitutional Court. We also have certain duplications in the sense that we have two candidates from a certain institution. For example, we have two candidates from the Criminal Police Academy and we have two candidates from the Institute of Comparative Law. That, of course, is not and should not be a problem, because as I understand it, running for the office of the Constitutional Court judge is not a gesture to a particular institution or organisation whose member or employee is a candidate, but in view of the individual abilities, the individual characteristics of the candidate himself. When we talk about concrete candidates, I would like to point out a few candidates that I think, both in human and moral terms, are worthy of the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. It's a professor. Milan Škulic from Belgrade University of Law School. Someone has already mentioned that one of the candidates has delivered a biography to more than 30 pages, it's a candidate of professors. Milan Skulic, who published more than 200 scientific papers. Besides him, I would like to point out Dr. Jovan Ciric, director of the Institute for Comparative Law, also with over 150 scientific papers. It's about a man who's been head of the Institute for Comparative Law for ten years. Both candidates are on the list of the President of the Republic for Constitutional Court Judges. And Miroslav Nikolic, who I have already mentioned, from the territory of the city of Pančeva, president of the Chamber of Appeal. If the Constitution is respected, he will surely be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. As for the second list, the lists of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say, because not everyone has said it, but I do not think there is a need, nor a reason to hide which parliamentary group the candidate is proposing, of course if the parliamentary groups do not think that for a certain reason they will not say which candidates they have proposed, this is their legitimate right, that the SVM parliamentary group - the Party for Democratic Action was running by Prof. Dr. Thomas Korhec for the Constitutional Court Judge. He's from Palic's residence. He's a professor at a private law school. He is a professor of constitutional law and administrative law and is the only professor of constitutional law to be applied to judge of the Constitutional Court. We think that Thomas Korec, in a professional sense, is worthy of being judge of the Constitutional Court in the next term of the court. On the other hand, we believe that the Hungarian community in Serbia deserves to have a Constitutional Court judge on the condition, of course, that it meets those professional criteria that it needs to meet under the Constitution and the Constitutional Court law. In the previous term, the Hungarian community had a Constitutional Court judge, which was Agnes Kartag Audrey. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, there is, of course, a debate on candidates, not the Constitutional Court itself, and even less on the work of the Constitutional Court in the current term of office, at least nine judges of 15. I would like to say, in the context of the expectations of the Constitutional Court judges, that there were interesting decisions in the previous term. We are not a parliamentary group that comments on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but we all know that there have been very interesting decisions in the political sense, for example. The Law on Jurisdiction, laying down certain competences, individual competences of the AP Vojvodina, for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the Brussels Agreement, or certain decisions, etc. I hope that in the next term, the Constitutional Court will make its decision in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, as the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and that there will be fewer problematic decisions in the political sense, in the sense that the Constitutional Court will make its decisions solely on the basis of the Constitution and the law. It is very interesting that the Constitutional Court in this term, in its previous term, failed to assess its agreement with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court Act, the amendment and addition of that law from December 2011, whose amendments were five years ago, meant that during some previous government, the possibility of making decisions in the Constitutional Court in small size and large size. This is interesting because, on the basis of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court makes all its decisions in such a way that each judge of the Constitutional Court decides to make any decision and it is evident that it is inconsistencies with the Constitution of this decision of the Constitutional Court Act. I know the Constitutional Court is burdened with a number of acts. I know it's celibate that he can judge the council, but it's just that the current constitution doesn't allow it now, and it has to be said. I hope that the work of the Constitutional Court in the next term will not be adorned, under the name of the so-called decision. This is important because it is known that whoever has absolute authority in interpreting the law is a true legislator, and according to our Constitution, it is the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9895	Thank you, fellow Pastor. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9896	Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the atmosphere in the Assembly is even an overemphasizing measure of the importance of the agenda point in front of us, and that is what is devastating. There would be only one thing worse than that, if we, as MPs, were to participate in this imitation of reality, which would actually turn a serious discussion into the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, because we cannot, unfortunately, talk about the Constitutional Court, about the role and importance it has in our society, and ignore what precedes that institution, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia itself. The way we treat the current constitution is worse than the way it was adopted, and it is adopted so that no serious party in the country can feel anything but shame today because of what happened in 2006. So, of course, here in parliament, I exempt the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and LDP, parties that had then criticised the way the Constitution changed, changed in the Constitution, pointing among other things to this unacceptable and unsustainable ambition that the judicial authority would submit to the executive. Today we are obliged to implement the procedures set out in the Constitution and give or deny the support of candidates for the Constitutional Court proposed by the President of the Republic and the National Assembly in accordance with the principles set out in the Constitution. When we begin to analyse the importance of an institution, as is the Constitutional Court, then we cannot escape from the truth that truly describes and makes it significant, because the Constitutional Court is the address where every citizen of this country, among other things, and the institution of our party, is seeking the protection of constitutionality and legality. The way the Constitutional Court applied to its obligation in Serbia gives us the right to criticise and ignore it today to the extent that it is obvious and during this debate. There is no serious question to this society where the Constitutional Court has passed a test that would justify its formal importance in Serbia. All the big questions, regardless of their character, the Constitutional Court has put aside. I'll mention a few. Parties that do not have each other's closeness were also in motion. In 2008, our party asked the Constitutional Court to protect the Constitution and prevent the realisation of the Russia-Serbia state agreement, on the basis of which the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia was made. When we asked the Constitutional Court to do so, it was understood that we would accept his decision. Believe it or not, we're not allowed to do that. Not because we weren't ready to accept a decision that was contrary to some of our interests, but because the Constitutional Court decided not to decide anything, and it wasn't an exclusive situation, or something that would make it special. As a rule, the Constitutional Court, or judges who make this Constitutional Court, resort to such a solution. In its response to our initiative, the Constitutional Court has taken the view that it is not competent to assess interstate agreements and their possible compliance with our Constitution. Can you imagine, for example, that the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, three years ago, when agreements that were the precondition for financial assistance to Greece were signed, decided to say that it was not competent to make a decision under its jurisdiction? Can you imagine, that the Supreme Court of America, reacting in that way? Is it possible that a constitutional court in any country in the world says that it does not want to be answered on such an important matter as the one we raised? After that, there's an even more serious problem. It's been mentioned here in the Assembly several times. It's the Brussels Agreement, signed in 2013. We absolutely supported him. Our political competition has requested that the Brussels Agreement be assessed before the Constitutional Court. We had nothing to do with it. On the contrary, we felt it was necessary. What has the Constitutional Court decided to do? To stand in the process with an accidental comment that it is a political document that he does not wish to plead. The last example is also very significant, completely different from the two mentioned, and it is the government's decision to cut wages and pensions by 10%. I'd be a hypocrite if I didn't say that we were still in 2008, since it was clear what kind of financial disaster we were going to be, asking him to respond in time. To reduce wages and pensions then, to freeze, at a level that today is unimaginable and for the well-placed citizens of this country. The average salary of about 500 euros and pensions above 300 euros. It wasn't political at the time, and it wasn't done. Four or five years later, it was inevitable, necessary and inevitable. The decision was made, the associations of citizens, the party, the public, which were considered by their Constitution of guaranteed rights, asking the Constitutional Court to declare it. We didn't even get an answer from the Constitutional Court on that initiative, even though the law very clearly defined the procedure for the emergency declaration, when it is the circumstances in which the country is located. Why do we even choose these people, if the institution in which they need to work and represent them has such marginal and peripheral significance? If that wasn't the question of the LDP's position, that's what all these empty places in the O.R. say. There are no promoters, most of all there are no representatives of the ruling coalition. Who's obliged to defend Nikolic's proposals? Those whose candidate Nikolic was for the president or us who ran against him. Who is obliged to defend the ruling coalition's proposals? Parties of the ruling coalition? The parties of the ruling coalition running these people or us who are against it? Who's obliged here to give us the arguments we need to support someone who took part in the election theft in 2000? With circumstances, which are clear, which describe this country as incomplete, unable to solve its problems, he managed to reach the position of seeing himself in the chair of the Constitutional Court after 16 years. Is that a recommendation? Is that a message from the ruling coalition? There are several unsustainable criteria on the basis of which they are being conducted and due to the candidate of the Constitutional Court. The age of 40 is mentioned, the work in the judiciary is mentioned, that is, in areas described as a legal profession, which is broadly similar to all political differences between us. There is also some legal extraordinary or prominent role in some public and professional life. What are these criteria? What can we conclude from them? That the Constitutional Court judge will be the one who at that time represents the party's most effective instrument or ruling coalition in power. And in that sense, there is no more pronounced continuity than what is seen here today. As much as there are sparks here between the government and the opposition, this is something that speaks of this unsustainable continuity that exists at other levels. Much more political than the choice of the Constitutional Court judges. Behind this proposal, colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, there is a desire for Serbia to have the Constitutional Court the same as it had when it was made by Tadic and Kostunica. Then, since there aren't many of those who were actors here, let's say the arrangements for forming around the first Constitutional Court, I want to tell you that a meeting of the college was held, and then I said that, the head of the parliamentary groups on which the quota between the ruling coalition parties was beautifully divided, on the basis of which it is known how much who will propose a judge who will be elected tomorrow to the Constitutional Court. There's absolutely no difference on that plan. If we want to have a Constitutional Court better than what we have today, then that difference must be clearly visible. She's gone. I don't think it's fair for us to start reading the names of people who are candidates for the Constitutional Court and now that everyone here is taking them on as they come to mind. I won't do it. I certainly won't do it because it takes 20 minutes to talk about this lifeless subject, which was one of the ways to spend that time. You need to talk for 20 minutes about the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Of course you need to talk, not for 20 minutes, in normal countries you would talk about it for 20 days. A question of candidate character would be asked, their professional biography would be searched, their political views analysed, whether they were liberal, whether they were conservative. These people have been elected for nine years. Who knows where today's ruling coalition will be in four, five? What kind of questions will they have to face? What kind of burden will fall on these people's backs then? That's not what you're thinking at all. What do we need the Constitutional Court for? There is no more effective basis for creating a state than credible institutions. We have to change the Constitution. It's the first job we have to do. It's impossible to do it if we don't do it together. It can't work like 2006 anymore. That's when it passed. We voted more in favour of the Constitution in a referendum than the Constitution was written, so our country is as it is today. So there's no point going through these people's biographies. Someone mentioned that it's bad that there's no professor from the state university, it's just about the character of the country we live in. Can you hear it anywhere in the world? Why do we have private law schools, if they are who they are, that it's a shame when someone comes for a candidate with, say, the title of professor of law school, rather than private. The first dimension of the country in which we live and from this topic arises new threats for our future. Since we can't agree with each other about anything here, who's the one who's going to arbitration with each other then when we grab each other's necks, break each other out, as much as we can and stay so broken up in one lost country, who's that authority that's gonna do it? When such big questions are asked because life imposes them, not us, because no one has escaped from it. No one, no matter what the subject or character. Are those deep ethical questions, are a couple of excellencies political? See how many open topics there are in our daily lives that are looking for an answer. Imagine meeting a new council of the Constitutional Court and saying that it is against the constitution to cut salaries and pensions, and then someone who is then in power, I hope it will be us, says – so you know what I don't care about is what you're talking about there in the Constitutional Court, because here, in this budget, I don't have the money for it. And this society needs to regain consciousness and understand in which world lives and what is possible and what is not possible. We give these people the right to make decisions that bind us, and the way we treat them, because of the procedure they choose, the atmosphere in which they do, in advance, says we don't give a shit. So first, let's see if we're as a people, as a society at all, capable of living up to some norms, with any of them? With natural rights, with any norm, is there anything we can do? That's not the Rules of Procedure. In our mutual relations, the Rules of Procedure is not a norm that is respected and respected. It's good if we can do something with it that would suit our interests. It doesn't suit us at all when an MP is punished, shut down for 20 days, because when we wrote it, we didn't think he was going to punish us. In 2008, I criticized it here when the Rules of Procedure was changed, but those who changed it then did not see themselves in that position. We criticised amendments to the Law on selecting committees in local congregations, municipalities, and the election of MPs in Parliament, we talked nonsense. A citizen must know who he chooses, that the parties after the election don't know what they do with the mandates, so now only the party's right to make a list after the election, move to the beginning and the party's right to do so before the election, and then, then, we open up a stock market space, to buy. Or what's called harmonisation with the republican level, so in 2012, we harmonised local self-government so that we got local government that doesn't look anything like the one the citizens voted for in 2012. It's all about comparing this atmosphere here today. There is something here that is paradoxical, which is the position of the promoter, that is the parliaments of the President of the Republic. They're not important names. I'm not talking about SNS or DS or LDP at all, these are two institutions. It means Parliament and the President of the Republic. We act like everything's normal. There's absolutely no feeling here for the fact that it's an imitation of reality. We haven't heard from Nikolic in five years' time about what's probably part of his presidency, e.g. To say, you know what, I came to the seat of the President of the Republic as I came, I lost the first round, I was shaking those sacks, no one believed in me, in that second round, in the end I succeeded. I was voted by those who today describe me as the devil. Here, a colleague from DJB supported Nikolic in 2012. Just like that was the situation, but it says, okay, I'm right where I am, so just give me one thing to do for this country. That's why I say this is bad, this is bad when it's done like this. How does the President of the Republic get to the candidate? I don't want to talk about nepotism, I don't want to mention any names. It's not worthy of this debate. In other places, yes. Remember when Obama proposed to the Supreme Court Judge, the first Hispo-American, they turned over and analyzed him to the third knee. Absolutely everything. It's not done here, but let me just say how the President of the Republic gets to his candidates. How did the parties come, we got the letter, someone said not all the parliamentary groups proposed candidates, so how do we propose them? How can we get a good U.S.J. candidate? Is that personal acquaintance? Is that me to you, you to me? Is that the usual flea market political? How do we do that? The President of the Republic has no awareness of that. At least to say, you know what, I'm starting a debate about changing the Constitution, he doesn't have to talk about preamble, he'll never say it, but at least about this, let's give this a proper time to be a normal country. Parliament too. We have a committee that deals with the Constitution, could it have gone along with this kind of accompanying opinion and say, "You know what, nobody needs this." Given the problems that are ahead of us, there is no more interested side than the current ruling USS-function coalition, and you with these suggestions and the way you treat... Even if you did create a theater, that it's full of joke, that it's being talked about in public, at a press conference in the Assembly, that's the last question, everyone asks you first, but by the way, in the end, this Constitutional Court, what are we going to do with it? They don't care about that either, they don't enter the report. That's why I appeal to all of you here in the Assembly... We were the biggest obstacle. When I say to me, I don't mean personally, I think that the political forces in the country were the biggest obstacle to building democratic institutions that needed Serbia and they were destroyed, they remained dusty, the institutions that had created generations before us, some of them were credible. At least from the point of view of the profession. Incomparable are candidates in a professional sense, people who once sat in the USS and what we have in front of us today, in the professional sense and role that those institutions once played with today. Of course we will deny the support of these proposals, not because this is something personal against these people, it is least and it would be hypocritical to say at this point, but first of all with integration we reject any possibility of participating in procedures that are as counterproductive as the choice of VSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9897	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9898	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this direct transfer of our assembly session, the camera certainly records the absence of members of the ruling majority who are not present in the hall when discussing one of the most important state institutions such as the USS, and this speaks of the government's relationship with the election of the highest judicial functions in the state. It is obvious that they know something that we may not know or what is not publicly said, that all these judicial functions are already agreed and that all of these are SNS candidates and that most of the cases are party listeners who come to the USS, so that the USS remains the same as it is now, which means that there would be no decision on the key issues that today bother Serbia. Serbia's Constitutional Court kept silent when this SNS authority passed Brussels agreements that were anti-constitutional. Who else to report in Serbia if the USS hears about anti-constitutional Brussels agreements that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia led with Alexander Vukic directly handed over to the institutions of the Serbian state to the KIM Cypriot terrorists, directly abolished the institutions of the Serbian state and worked against the Constitution of the Serbian state. Stand up court is silent. When it was due to be announced about the Law on the Temporary Payments of Pensions, which took away pensions as acquired rights for Serbian citizens, which was robbed by pensioners, the Serbian Constitutional Court kept silent. When Lex specialising in "Belgrade on Water" was brought in, when there was a coup of building one, I don't know what kind of business venture, for which there were no legal or any other grounds to do so, the Constitutional Court was, of course, silent again. So now we're choosing new members of the Constitutional Court. Do we choose people who will remain silent? Has the Serbian Progressive Party so well read those who will keep quiet even better than those who are currently in the Serbian Constitutional Court? The honor of exceptions, because in this composition of the Constitutional Court of Serbia there were and there were people who had the courage to separate their opinion from the shameful decisions that marked the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia in the previous period in the matter of Brussels agreements, the robbery of pensioners or the construction of "Beograda on Water". So here, on behalf of the Serbian Movement Group of Representatives, we are asking a key question - is this another party choice of judges? Is the Serbian Progressive Party again putting similar judges on the judges' side? Is such a move in the Serbian Constitutional Court that will lead to the continued silence of the Serbian Constitutional Court on all key issues that plague Serbia's state today? Of course we also have specific remarks I'd like to introduce you to. First of all, the Dvori want to point out the importance of the position and role of the Constitutional Court in Serbia's constitutional justice system. In that sense, it should not be forgotten that the Constitutional Court is the guardian of the constitution and that the Constitutional Court is the final arbitration of constitutionality and legality above and beyond each policy and political party. This is confirmed not only by constitutional matter, but also by the need for states and citizens to be protected from unconstitutional acts and actions of those who exercise power. So this relationship of yours, the relationship of this regime to the Constitutional Court, is actually a picture of your relationship to the Constitution. You are violating the Constitution of the Serbian State. You break it with anti-constitutional swab agreements, the betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija, you break it by robbing pensioners, you violate it by building Beograd on water, you violate it in a number of other places and ways. So that's your relationship to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the moment, Serbia is operating with a package of Brussels agreements. In legal traffic there are a large number of regulations whose constitutionality and legality are questionable and controversial, and we also have an ugly manner of the ruling regime to concentrate literally all power in their hands, and that its personification is Alexander Vukic, who has seduced the personal regime. So, for Alexander Vukic and SNS, the Constitution and the Serbian Constitutional Court do not exist. They don't admit them, they block them, they shut them up. So where are the constitutionality and legality and the rights and freedoms of the citizens? Who will protect us against the will to violate the Constitution on a daily basis? In Serbia, the overall banalisation of the Constitution, its legal force and the reach of all its standards, including preamble, is under way. It is not rare that individual politicians in the ruling regime give statements of the type – who still respects the Constitution, whom does the Constitution bind? What about the political system change action team, which announced a constitutional audit at the small door in the previous National Assembly term? The constitution used to change seriously, with constituencies, and you wanted to change the constitution with Zoran Babic, who was headed by some of your commission to change the political system. So the Dvori, on this agenda point, want to establish a system of statehood and faith in the constitutional order that has been devastated by the treatment of the ruling SNS regime. Under the SNS, the Constitution has been crushed, Serbia's Constitutional Court has been crushed. They have been humiliated, therefore, by the most important state institutions since the SNS was in power. You don't want to have any control. You've made it impossible for anyone to control you. You would also abolish the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so that you could do whatever you want. This is the first-class issue of respect for constitutionality and legality, as well as the guarantee of freedom of human rights, and it is important to ensure who the future judges of the Constitutional Court are. Are these people who have confirmed themselves with their knowledge, respect for their rights and legal doctrines, especially constitutional law? Are these people who have confirmed themselves in the fight for constitutionality and legality, without being courted by the ruling hierarchy, or are they people whose main feature is party membership and closeness to the ruling regime? Did you choose these candidates how close the SNS are? Was that your criteria for running new judges of the Constitutional Court? Without party acuity, it is necessary to take serious access to the candidates' choice of new judges, because their very knowledge, personal integrity and respect for the Constitution should be fully expressed in the coming period. I am pleased, respected citizens of Serbia, which, behold, SNS MPs acknowledge that they have chosen these candidates for closeness and obedience to the SNS. Thank you, Mr. Martinovic, for admitting this to the citizens of Serbia. And finally, the future judges of the Constitutional Court, based on their work so far, must give us a guarantee that it is they who deserve this high recognition and that they will have the courage and dignity to protect the Constitution, so, if necessary, to oppose the ruling regime. To stand up to the ruling regime! When Aleksandar Vukic turns to a judge of the Constitutional Court, as he turned to, say, the President of RIK in his time, the tortured Djurdjevic, to steal the elections, will the Constitutional Court judge then judge in fear of Emperor Alexander Vukic, or will he judge without fear of Emperor Alexander Vukic? So, the remarks we will make are aimed at getting from the proposed candidates to the best, which we will all agree on, regardless of who gets the support of the National Assembly, because future judges will be the protectors of the constitutionality and legality of all of us citizens of Serbia. First of all, there are no regular professors of constitutional law on the list of candidates from the state university. We have nothing against private university, but is it possible that no single professor of constitutional law from a single university of the state University of Serbia is a candidate for the Constitutional Court, although our constitutional legal matter says clearly that the proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court should be a prominent lawyer? Let's see, what kind of prominent lawyers are these when it comes to judicial enforcers, city lawyers, deputy prosecutors, and if there's not one single law school professor? Here, there is, it is not true, there is Dr. Tamas Korhec, who is a lecturer at the Faculty of Legal and Business Studies "Lazar Vrkotic", a famous university in Serbia. So, what are we talking about? We are talking, therefore, about party appointments and agreements and a combination in which, for example, Dr Tamash Korhec, who disowned you, and the Hungarian movement, whose vice president, because of his co-operation with the Serbian Progressive Party, is that this is because of dealings with the SVM, so they are given one seat of the Constitutional Court judge. So, instead of among the candidates for the Serbian Constitutional Court, there are some of Serbia's most famous constitutional law professors, there are no professors of constitutional law among the proposed candidates. But there's, say, a professor at the police academy, because I guess they're more important professors of law school than professors. The constitutional matter has just left the possibility that only law professors can have another function if the judges are the Constitutional Court. For what? Well, because the most important thing is that just as professors of law school, as the most professional, they are judges of the Constitutional Court. But you have some other, more professional ones, which are obviously closer or, let me put it this way, they listen better to the SNS. There are a lot of candidates here who are dealing with criminal law. Does this mean that the current President of the Republic thinks that professors of constitutional law should not be involved in constitutional trial and that they do so much better than those candidates who are mainly involved in criminal law theory and practice? From the biography of the proposed candidates, it is not clear what their current contribution to the development of constitutionality is, so we are not clear about the criteria managed by the President of the Republic. The biography of some of the proposed candidates suggests that even existing jobs have not been affirmed as exceptional experts, and now you are proposing them as judges of the Constitutional Court. Given the criteria and conditions required for judges of the Constitutional Court, I could even conclude that it is harder to become judge of the Constitutional Court than judge of the Court of Justice, or otherwise. So, in your candidacy, you've made it so easy for a Constitutional Court judge, it's much easier to become a judge of the basic court. In view, therefore, of the list of judges of the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic, and here we have what you, as the ruling majority, have appointed through the candidate of the President of the Assembly, the situation is only interesting. Most of your candidates do not have the credibility to be appointed Judge of the Constitutional Court. When these candidates were proposed, priority was given to those who were prominent Serbian Progressive Party soldiers who have recorded meteoric successes in their careers from the moment of SNS membership. So the question arises justifiably how will they protect the Constitution tomorrow when in their former work as a leader star, their only interest in the party? The impression is that individuals have been rewarded for their unhappiness because the results they have achieved in so far have been negative. It's an example of fighting corruption. You're running for judges who don't have any results in the fight against corruption. What is the guarantee, then, that he will succeed in serving as Judge of the Constitutional Court? You have candidates who have so far affirmed and confirmed themselves as experts in illegally obtaining evidence against Serbian citizens indicted before The Hague tribunal and who have acted against the interests of the Hague prisoners, which is why their candidacy, I presume, is the reward for everything they have done against the interests of Serbian citizens. Here is one Mr. Dragan Ignjatovic, who, for example, said on 30 August 2011, as director of the Serbian government's Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, that he should co-operate with the court as long as he exists. The arrest of all the fugitives ended one aspect of co-operation, but now we have a technical part that includes witnessing. Co-operation must continue as long as the Hague tribunal exists. Is it possible that Serbian Government Office Director Dusan Ignjatovic will now be judge of the Serbian Constitutional Court in time for co-operation with The Hague tribunal? There are also interesting cases of Serbian Progressive Party party activists who are now proposing to the Constitutional Court judges, even those who have met for the first time in their previous work with the constitutional issue for the first time and the last time they took up the case in law school. So, here is a very simple question -- are we going to choose now, as Dr Aleksandar Martinovic said, judges elected by the Serbian Progressive Party and who are the Serbian Progressive Party and who are listeners to the Serbian Progressive Party and are close to the Serbian Progressive Party, and is this the criterion run by Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and Parliament President Maja Gojkovic? Why isn't Tomislav Nikolic and Maja Gojkovic here today to defend their candidates? Are you progressives ashamed of your candidates for the Constitutional Court? What do we do now? Something you ran away to defend them against the citizens of Serbia. We haven't heard a word positive about the candidates you've run here. Why doesn't President Nikolic, who doesn't come to Maja Gojkovic, who doesn't get up Martinovic to say – this candidate of the Serbian Progressive Party is a great expert, was a private enforcer or was a court enforcer or was a deputy prosecutor, but is a great expert, much better than all professors of constitutional law in Serbia? We can't hear it from Martinovic or Nikolic or Gojkovicka. All the heroes have denied anyone. No one to defend their own candidates. None of you should say a nice word about your candidates. There are no ten MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party in the hall. You've all escaped. You've all run away and no one to defend your candidates. And what's the reason? Very simple. Well, they're party listeners. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to install party listeners in the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so that the Constitutional Court of Serbia continues to remain silent on key issues, so that Vukic can sign further Brussels agreements, so that Vucic can continue to rob pensioners, so that the Serbian Progressive Party can build on water "Belgrade", against all laws and against all rules of the profession and against any constitutional matter. So that's what the choice of the Constitutional Court judge is all about. Will we be reunited with party listeners of the Serbian Progressive Party, who will be silent whenever the Constitutional Court is to react and to control the executive power, or Alexander Vukic, which should be one of his most important tasks, or will be re-elected judges who will be afraid to bring any verdict against this authority, against the interests of this authority, against what is of interest and which imposes this authority as it must in Serbia? So, the question is now being raised here – will we defend the Constitutional Court of Serbia from the Serbian Progressive Party, will we allow the Serbian Progressive Party to occupy and the Constitutional Court of Serbia and take over the full power in Serbia, because it has also humiliated the National Assembly and the President of Serbia, who is an ordinary servant of Aleksandr Vukic, and now wants to humiliate the Constitutional Court of Serbia, by choosing in the Serbian Constitutional Court obedients of the Serbian Progressive Party? Serbia's Dvori movement cannot support candidates who are obedient to the Serbian Progressive Party and defends the meaning of the Serbian Constitutional Court that will judge both by law and by the Constitution, rather than by orders from the SNS's central committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9899	The word is proposed by Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9900	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you hear a stream of lies, lies and nonsense like this, it's very difficult to give a meaningful answer. I would like Mr. Bosko Obradovic to see us now in front of all the citizens of Serbia when and where he was subject to constitutional law, since it obviously qualified him to assess the expertise of the people who are candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Mr. Arsic, I would stop, only if Mr. Bosko Obradovic told us where and where the professor was subject to constitutional law and what grade he received, so when I get the answer, I will continue my presentation, as my presentation depends largely on the answer to this crucial question when we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9901	The People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9902	Thank you very much to my colleague Aleksandr Martinovic for reminding me that he has not yet answered the question of what about his plagiarizing works that he has plagiarized by copying the same work with other titles throughout his university career. Also, he did not answer that famous question of the Dvori, which we will always and constantly repeat – when will you show us 650 papers of judges who joined the SNS after the re-election and then came back to the judge's office and are still members of the SNS? I understand the desire of the SNS to make it impossible for me to speak, to ban the opposition's voice in every way. Now we all need to be professors of law school so we can talk about the Serbian Constitutional Court. No, I don't. An ordinary Serbian citizen, without a day in law school, sees that you usurped the Constitutional Court of Serbia, sees that you threaten the judges, sees that you do not allow them to pass any judgment, sees that judges for your sake, in fear of you, cannot bring any verdict, that you are silent about the Brussels agreements, that you are silent about the violation of the constitution, that you are silent about the robbery of pensioners, that you are silent about Belgrade on the water. So, it shouldn't be, Mr. Martinovic, an expert on constitutional right to see how you blocked the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, to see how you control judges in Serbia, to see how you place your party Apaches on judicial functions, to see how you usurped all the power in Serbia. So you shouldn't be a professor of constitutional law for that. That's what every ordinary citizen of Serbia sees. I speak here on behalf of ordinary citizens of Serbia, who will no longer suffer SNS torture, will not suffer your haughtiness, your insolence, your harassment and humiliation of Serbian citizens, your robbery, your withdrawal of wages and pensions. There are people who won't take it anymore and I am their voice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9903	Srjan Nogo, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9904	Article 106, Mr. Chairman, point 2. - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Also, under Article 108, you are obliged to take care of the order at the session, so I call on you to allow all MPs, both the ruling parties and the opposition, although at this point opposition MPs have the problem that MPs of the ruling majority earn when we speak. They may not like what we're saying, but we have the right to express our political position. Let the court, on this political stand, put citizens in the elections, certainly it's up to them, but I ask you to make some civilizational norm and act politely, that at least we listen to each other, and even if you don't like what we're telling you, and even if it hurts, you can't show the 650 printouts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9905	In accordance with Article 109, I give you a warning and take two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Now I'm going to answer your question, the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic, from place: Based on what? Because we're answering your colleagues' pitches? Now I'm going to answer you. I did not warn my SNS colleagues because Mr. Obradovic, as a member of the SNS and the MP, called me a thief. I kept my mouth shut. He also called me a man with no brains, because I'm going to obey someone's orders without talking. Would you like me to list what he said about me and all his fellow MPs here? That's exactly what he was saying, and no one was interrupting him. I let Serbian citizens see true democracy, as it seems in the National Assembly. Now, if you want to strike a political blow, don't be angry when someone throws it at you. You lost two minutes of time because Mr. Nogo went in line with his colleague, Martinovic, after advertising the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You can't take his time, you haven't even warned your colleague. ) The word has the authorised representative of the promoter Aleksandar Martinović. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You throw me, and I cannot defend myself. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9906	Come on, Mr. Beard, who's defending you. So, we heard that Mr. Bosko Obradovic passed constitutional law with a clean ten at the Faculty of Law, a big vacation in Cačka, and it absolutely qualified him to talk about the judges of the Constitutional Court. Since it is said here today, and here in the National Assembly Hall, and also in the hall of the light of falseness, the glow of lies, the glow of insults about the candidates for the Constitutional Court, about the President of the Republic, about the President of the National Assembly, about the President of the Government, of course, about the SNS, I have to present a few facts that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know what this is all about. All MPs received two documents, one document came from the President of the Republic who proposed eight candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Here, it's, as all citizens who observe this transmission can see, it's a whole little book, so a little book that contains not only the names of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges but also their biographies. From these biographies, all the MPs, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all the journalists in Serbia, all the political, professional and general public can know whether candidates who meet the Constitution are required to be judges of the Constitutional Court or not? Here, I beg you, Igor. Here, therefore, the document sent to us by the President of the Republic is on a total of 80 pages. (Zoran Krasic, from town: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9907	Mr. Krasic, instead of throwing, you would know that Mr. Martinovic is an authorised proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9908	The second document came from Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly, which is located on a total of 55 pages. The same little booklet, and it is not so small, where the names of all the candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, their biography and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can be identified as candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. That's what we do today, who have the responsibility to lead this country. Now, I'm going to tell you Mr. Obradovic how your coalition partners, your political allies, were doing, the same ones that delivered Serbs to The Hague in 2007. So here you have two books with the names of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, one on the 80 pages, and the other on page 56. And do you know what it was like when these political friends of yours were in power? Here, it was like this. Look at the MPs, look at the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, one single paper. The 7th of November 2007 president of the Oliver Dulic National Assembly, nor the biography, nor who finished anything, nor where he worked. Nothing but mere names. I don't want to read those names. They're not your people for nothing. So, just the names of the candidates and the jobs or functions they are currently in. Literally one piece of paper went from the National Assembly to the President of the Republic. That was 2007, Mr. Obradovic. Who was the president of the National Assembly then? Oliver Dulic from DS. Who was the President of the Republic? Boris Tadic. Who was the Prime Minister? Vojislav Kostunica. So, all your political friends, all your political allies, on this one sheet of paper. Here, literally one sheet of paper, nothing else. Nothing, no biography, no candidate consent, nothing. On November 7th 2007, this paper went to the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic to select five judges from this list of 10 names. Today we propose candidates for the Constitutional Court judges by providing you with two books with biographies showing where people graduated from college, with which grades, where they work, which scientific and professional papers have published, which are their references to being judge of the Constitutional Court. And, here, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you don't have to trust me either, you don't have to trust a colleague of Bosko Obradovic, but trust your eyes. This is in 2007, therefore, a paper with judges of the Constitutional Court who went to the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic. And these are candidates for the Constitutional Court judges behind whom we are today leading the Republic of Serbia. So, two books, here I have two books, and here I have one sheet of paper. If you tell me that it is in accordance with the Constitution, that it is in accordance with democracy, that it is in accordance with the procedure, that it is in accordance with the right of citizens to know who are candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court, these two books, or this list of papers from 2007 and if you tell me that this is better, excellent. It's a great policy. But Serbian citizens said it was not a good policy. Serbian citizens want to know who the constitutional court judges are. And the candidates are good. And, you, Mr. Obradic, shouldn't talk ugly about people who enjoy an extraordinary reputation, especially in the world of legal science. You're saying I don't know how you're not ashamed to say you didn't propose any law school professors? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Constitutional law. ) Well, I know, Mr. Krasic, you are like Bosko Obradović, you are an expert in general practice, you understand everything. I don't really understand everything, I don't even say I understand myself much about this, but I'm trying to understand. So, in the proposal submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you have the name Milan Škulić. For Milan Skulic, absolutely all the lawyers in Serbia know. All Serbian lawyers, because one of the best law professors in Belgrade and one of the best law professors in Serbia, is proposed to the Constitutional Court judge. And you say you didn't propose any? The president of the National Assembly has proposed for judges of the Constitutional Court two ladies who are professors at the Criminal and Police Academy. If you tell me they're not state colleges, they're not part of Belgrade University, stand up and tell me. So, it is not true what Bosko Obradovic is saying, good candidates are proposed. Candidates who meet all the requirements and none of these candidates are members of the SNS. If you tell me that Tatjan Babic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, has ties to the SNS judge. Great, I'm telling you there isn't and all of Serbia knows it. (Radoslav Milojic, from place: Babic's wife. Tajana Babic, you are not ashamed, Milojic, whose wife is Babic. Zoran Babic? How can you not be ashamed? How can you not be ashamed? I told Tatiana Babic. It's not about Zoran Babic's wife. If you thought you were being ridiculous and being very smart. You didn't, because everything you said, you said a little bit but stupid, like the other day what you said, even though it was true to you, the other day you said that the 27 years of DS supported everything that was bad in Serbia. That's the only thing that's true about what you said. So none of these people are members of the SNS, nor has anything to do with the SNS. These are candidates whose names you can read, which is much more important, whose biographies you can read, get acquainted with all the details of their professional life and where they ended up law school and with which average assessment and which scientific and professional papers they published. We have nothing to hide. You were hiding in 2007 when you chose the judges of the Constitutional Court by the President of the Republic on a list of charters. One piece of paper went to Andric's Venac, please, Mr. Tadic, from this list of papers choose from 10 judges, you choose five who will be judges of the Constitutional Court. Then you from the DSS, from Dvera, from all your parties to the coalition say that we in SNS are hiding something, we don't want to know anything. You know everything. We're proud, it doesn't matter if these candidates pass or don't pass. In voting day, they'll see who's elected. I am personally proud to have been proposed by the Constitutional Court Judge Professor Milan Škulic. I am proud that it was proposed for the Constitutional Court Judge Dr Jovan Ćirić, director of the Institute for Comparative Law. It is one of the best legal institutions in the Republic of Serbia, a man who has nothing to do with SNS, a man who was director of the Institute long before the SNS was established. I'm proud of all these people who are proposed for the Constitutional Court judges, good people, excellent lawyers. I'm sure they'll do their job very well. As for the qualifications we heard today, they are qualifications that are heard every day. Everyone in this Serbia is an exponent of the SNS. All you have to say is that Sasa Jankovic is an exhibit of SNS and that Rodoljub Sabic is an exponent of SNS and that Vuk Jeremic is an exponent of SNS and then we circled the story. Then no one in this Serbia is doing anything, but we all work in SNS and SNS, and as much as they work for the SNS and the state of Serbia, all Serbian citizens see it. Here were the words and here I want to look back, I think it's an important topic, about two decisions of the Constitutional Court that some MPs in the opposition have misread or deliberately distorted their meaning and content. The first decision concerns a decision on the constitutionality of the Law on the temporary way of regulating wages and pensions, and then you deliberately deceived Serbian citizens as pensions were acquired, pensions as rights were acquired. Retirement amount not acquired. If the amount of pension had been acquired, then Serbia's budget would still not have two-fifths of pensions paid out of the budget, but would have been paid out of the PIO Fund. But since you and your coalition partners previously robbed these budget funds, i.e. those pension funds, the state of Serbia is still paying out of the budget of five pensions today. So the amount of pension is not acquired right. The pension amount is a variable category that depends on the economic situation of our public finances and the state of Serbia has been forced to temporarily reduce the amount of a certain portion of pensions, some categories of pensioners, because we were in front of bankruptcy, but we were not in front of bankruptcy because of Veroljub Arsic, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic, but because of those who led Serbia until 2012. Furthermore, there were words about how the Constitutional Court, by order of the SNS and Alexander Vukic, called incompetent for the assessment of the so-called so-called. the first Brussels agreements signed, i.e. the first Brussels Agreement, signed in April 2013. What's so unconstitutional about that? What's against the law? Is that an international contract? It's not. Is it concluded by the procedure by which international contracts are concluded? It's not. Then why should the Constitutional Court deal with the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of a political act? Why when it's not an international contract? So nothing was wrong with the Constitutional Court. I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, so that those who, apart from being able to read to them what someone else wrote to them and except that they know that in one minute ten times, Alexander Vukic and SNS, everything else, or anything else, or they don't know anything, or they know very little or deliberately and systematically deceive Serbian citizens. But you, gentlemen, have been very wrong if you think these people sitting here are going to listen to all your lies, insults, slanders, which you every day refer to at the expense of the SNS or anyone who is proposed for any responsible state function. We won't, because we have nothing to be ashamed of. To be ashamed of the professor of the university, director of the Institute of Comparative Law, the people who educate our future highly educated police officers? Well, we're proud of those people. Well, they're the best possible candidates. And you, Mr. Obradic, are given the opportunity to run for the Constitutional Court Judges, come on, tell me one name that would stand behind your signature? Which university professor would like to be your candidate for the Constitutional Court Judges, who is the director of the Institute, who is seriously involved in any work to stand behind you who are allegedly a professor of Serbian language and literature, and who do you not know how to express yourself in that same literary language? People like that don't exist. That is why you are neither in a position to propose judges of the Constitutional Court nor anyone else for the most responsible state functions, and in particular you will not be in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9909	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9910	The Honorable Chairman, first of all, was obliged to give me your word before Mr. Martinovic, because I immediately called to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you personally did, but you gave before that to Mr. Martinovic I do not know on what basis. Because Article 103 clearly gives me the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure as soon as that injury occurs. Article 109, Mr. Chairman, the notice is made to the MP who approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly, I did not do so, who spoke before he asked and received the word, who did not do so, in addition to warning the President of the National Assembly about a question that is not on the agenda, I did not do so, if he interrupts the speaker in a statement or throws, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers the freedom of speech, I did not do so, when he directly address the other MP, I did not do so, if he is using curses and offensive expressions, I did not do so, if he presents the facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, I did not do so, if other proceedings violate order at the sitting or against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So, you have a duty to conduct your sessions and to abide by this Rules of Procedure, and it is not your personal will to assess how you should treat which MPs. You tolerate Mr. Martinovic from insulting the opposition, and I have not offended anyone. You've taken us two minutes on God's justice. It is not disputed that you have a majority and that you can behave however you want, but you know what the proverb says – you can do what you want, but you can't do it as long as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9911	I have to talk to my colleague Srdjan. Article 109 indent 8. - if other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. And you received a notice from Article 109 regarding Article 103(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - The President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to abuse the rights provided for by this Member of the People who do not comply with the provisions laid down in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way to abuse the rights provided for in this Article, shall give the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. When you finished advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you started replicating it. It's my right. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Allow me, Mr. Chairman, I was just quoting what SNS MPs are... There was no need to quote. The word is made by MP Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9912	Mr. Chairman, Article 92. - if the proposal referred to in Article 2 has been tabled by a group of MPs, the proposal must indicate a representative of the proposings, if this is not done, the proposing representative shall be deemed to be the first signed MP. Since we have brought together a large number of agenda points, Mr. Martinovic, nor has he proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court judges in front of the Assembly... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I proposed, yes. No, it was the president of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: As president of the parliamentary group, I proposed. ) Nor did anyone else do this to the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, as the High Council of the judiciary and Mr Milosevic, who authorised Mr Tomic here to be a representative, and they are authorized to propose. Mr. Martinovic is probably an authorised proposer on the agenda – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Igor Bečić, from the post: United debate. ) Of course there was a united debate. There is no problem with Mr. Martinovic speaking and using his right here when he explains the issue of the agenda to be discussed, it is being discussed, and these are members of the board that are now working here as part of the united point. Not a word Mr. Martinovic said about it. He spent 20 minutes, as a cobajagi authorised representative, talking about a proposal for judges of the Constitutional Court. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. That's not the thing to do in this congregation. We should all have equal status here. There's no telling who the proposings are. Mr. Tomic should show up here because we can't debate without him. I don't know what he's doing. Mr. Arsic, I think you should interrupt the session until Mr. Tomic shows up as someone representing the author, which is the President of the Cassation Court and the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is Mr. Milojevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9913	Article 92, point (b) of the first subparagraph, is The Rules of Procedure concern the establishment of the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the attitudes you have advertised relate to the additions of the agenda and who can explain them. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make the Parliament's statement in the voting day? (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: I want to vote. All right, he'll come out. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. On what basis, sir? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You heard. I heard you threw it first. If you want a replica, first I have to give you a warning, so I can give you the right to the replica. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Who did I throw it to? ) Mr. Martinovic as he spoke. I heard you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: First give all of them warnings and then there is no problem. They're not looking for a right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9914	Thank you, Chairman. I'm very pleased and I must admit that I'm proud that in 18 years of long history, the Devera SNS can't find a single spot in our biography. Every time they try to speak against us, they talk about how we used to be in power with someone. We've never been in power with anyone. So, you're making a bad argument. Your proof is that you don't actually have an argument against the Dvora, because there's no stain in our current biography. There are stains in your biographies, so the biography of the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic is a biography with a paid degree. That's your candidate. That's your former president. So, you sent a message to Serbian citizens that they could buy diplomas, so that even with a paid degree, they could become president of the state and then blame me, why do I speak on the subject of the candidate for the Constitutional Court Judges, and why Tomislav Nikolic, with a paid diploma, right to propose candidates for judges at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9915	Mr. Obradich, you've gone too far. First of all, you know that the Rules of Procedure prohibit the fact of private life. I tolerate it. However, no state body has found that the diploma has been purchased. Even more so, the President of the Republic graduated when he was a member of the opposition, as you are now. That's one thing. The second thing, legitimacy gives him the result he had in 2012 in the elections. Even if he had four grades of elementary school, he'd have the right to do it. So please, if you want to replicate to Mr Martinovic, avoid at least bringing out the facts of the private life of people who are not here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9916	Let's get back to the new candidates for the Constitutional Court. Of course I was right and Mr. Martinovic failed to deny me when I said you did not propose any professor of constitutional law to any university in Serbia. Name one of the professors of constitutional law, so let's see who's right. So he's gone. No constitutional law judge in Serbia is worthy of you as judge of the Constitutional Court, but it is therefore worthy of Mr Dusan Ignatovic, a lawyer from Belgrade, who was head of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. That's a great candidate for you, because of course you are for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You are an excellent candidate Dr Dragana Kolaric, a professor at the Criminal Police Academy, otherwise the wife of the SNS municipality's president. You are an excellent candidate, Dr. Tamas Korhec, who otherwise teaches at a prestigious university called the Faculty of Legal and Business Studies "Lazar Vrkotic". Just once again, the Faculty of Legal and Business Studies "Lazar Vrkotic". So it's a better candidate than the university professor in Serbia, a better candidate than...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9917	Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Marco Djurisic, from the city: What is he proposing? How's he proposing? How does he propose? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see, as soon as someone from the SNS gets the word, they all appear, and from Boris Tadic, from the DS, from Dvora. Everyone's only in the crowd when there's something to be said against the SNS. What am I proposing? Let's just say, I suggested on behalf of the MP's group of SNS judges of the Constitutional Court. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Which one? Which one? You got everything on paper. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: All 10. I'm now asking you, big smart-ass geniuses who enjoy a great reputation, who are advocates of civil and European Serbia, who are much better than we are...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9919	Please return to the agenda, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9920	So I'm talking to you, Mr. Arsic. You're the social elite, how come you didn't propose any professor from any law school, but we did it for you, the other Serbia without teeth, primitive, stupid, snotty, like this? How come you elite people didn't propose anyone to judge the Constitutional Court, but we did it who were the worst in the world? You, Mr. Obradovic, have passed constitutional law with excellent success and a professor of Serbian language and literature, should know that you are not saying "no one" but "no one". Unless, in the meantime, you invented a new language, but as far as I know, when I was a kid, when I went to school, you used to say, "no one," not "anyone," but good. Since you're a professor of Serbian language, and I'm not, maybe you're right, and I'm not. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How long has he been right? What's he proposing? What's this? Something much more important than this, it's a lot of anxiety, Mr. Arsic, as you can see, with these gentlemen who are about to win the presidential election. Mr. Obradovic said that we proposed some who delivered Serbs to The Hague, who are traitors, who are like this. Now again, because of the MPs, but also because of the citizens of Serbia, I will read only some scientific papers by Professor Milan Shkulic, professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who is a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, so you can tell me on the basis of the title of these papers whether it was an anti-Serbian, a man who delivered to The Hague, etc. Just some of the works: "Crime and Penalty in The Hague" 19 June 2007, "There would be nothing - Croatia and the Tribunal", "The Year of the Račak Case", "Kosovo is Serbia", "Croatian secret arrest warrants", "Doktor Karadzic and Mr Dabic in The Hague", "The Bombing of the Palace of Justice", "New Hague Rasomoniada", "Croatian indictments and Serbian hearings", etc. Here, dear citizens of Serbia, where you will be given the greater villain for the Serbian people, where you will be able to write so many scientific papers on the topic of The Hague tribunal, on the subject of Croatia, on the subject of NATO bombing of Serbia. Now tell me, Mr. Bradovich, what scientific work did you publish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9921	Please, colleague Martinovic, no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9922	Here, let Mr. Obradovic tell me. There's nothing to be afraid of. This is an open debate. He says we SNS are afraid to run when he shows up. I'm not running anywhere. I ask Mr Obradovic to tell me how many scientific papers dedicated to The Hague tribunal, Croatian arrest warrants against Serbs or NATO bombing Serbia, did he, all of his MPs and Jasmina Vujic together? Here, let him tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9923	In accordance with Article 112. My Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly determines a 10-minute break. [[after breaks]] The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9925	In the context of a united debate, I will talk about the importance of respect for the procedure for the election of judges, as well as the importance of the functioning of these courts. The principles of constitutionality and legality constitute the essence of the rule of law, i.e. the nervous system of internal public law. The Constitution implies that there are basic social legal rules in the country established by the Constitution as the highest legal act of the State, and the Constitutional Court should provide mechanisms for respecting principles in reality. Protection, that is, control of constitutionality and legality, as well as direct protection of human and minority freedoms and rights, our Constitution trusts the Constitutional Court as an independent and independent state body. His decisions are final, executive and general binding. The essence of the existence of the Constitutional Court is as a result of the idea that the legislative, executive power should be subject to constitutional control, so the constitutional judiciary is the guardian of the Constitution, but in the exercise of the constitutional control of the law it must not become some sort of alienated authority, to become senior, or superior to the legislative authority. That's why I expect the future judges to eliminate some unconstitutional laws, if they are passed, from the legal system, and if there are serious mistakes to remove them. The Constitutional Court certainly cannot function properly if the judges are not completely independent and independent. I believe that our Constitution regulates the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in a good way, so, as we can today and participate in this, five judges elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic, five appointed by the President of the Republic and five General Sessions of the Supreme Court of Serbia. In this way, all three branches of government participate in the process of electing the Constitutional Court judges, but in one optimal way, or none of these branches of government can appoint most judges, but only on one broader list, which was offered to them, to choose or appoint. Also, criteria have been laid down on the basis of which those who appoint or choose the judges of the Constitutional Court are adhered to. I think our Constitution's intention was also to prevent the politicalization of the Constitutional Court's election process. I'm going to give you one of the opposite examples where the political criteria, in particular, occur in the election of judges, are in the United States, where when the US Supreme Court judges are appointed, as the highest court of law, in this case, the President of the United States, appoints judges and these are mostly his party friends. Our system is similar to that of Italian, I think it's much more objective. As with Italy, it implies that our Constitutional Court has 15 judges, and in Italy, as with us, the president appoints five, parliament that ambushes, together two-dominated parliament 2/3, by the majority appoints five and five Supreme Court, or members of the Supreme Administrative Court. I shall also state some jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, in order to point out its importance, i.e. its role, which is to protect constitutionality and legality, the possibility of resolving the conflict of jurisdiction, the decision on electoral disputes for which the law does not determine the jurisdiction of regular courts, the decision to prohibit the work of political organisations, trade unions or associations of cities, the decision to appeal against decisions of the High Council of Justice. The importance of the Constitutional Court can be seen on this particular case. Let us remember that in 2009, the High Judicial Council decided on a re-election of 837 judicial officials. The unselected judges then, and afterwards, lodged a complaint with the Constitutional Court, and in 2011, he informed the public that he had annulled all of the above-mentioned decisions of the 2009 Supreme Council, and in 2012, the same court made decisions in which judicial reform, then in the election of judges and public prosecutors, had come to a start, i.e. before the re-election. I will point to another aspect that is relevant to the Constitutional Court, or the entire legal system. The Constitutional Court, it is traditionally out of the government's trichotomy model, but it is certain that its decisions affect the formation of an impression of the overall legal environment in the country. In a broader context, the role of law is of great national, political and economic importance. We can vote for different candidates, we can oppose attitudes, or agree or our views differ with regard to their expertise, but the judges who will be elected will play a very important role, to apply legal standards in such a way as to achieve the judicial function of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9926	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9927	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start, what I asked you earlier, where is Mr. Tomic? How do we conduct a debate without an authorised representative? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: There are none. ) Please interrupt the session and provide us with authorized representatives, so that we can have a debate with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9928	All right, thanks. I am setting a break of 10 minutes until the proposed representative, Mr. Tomic, arrives. [[after breaks]] Mr. Petrovic, we can move on. There's the promoter, Mr. Tomic. Just ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9930	Thank you very much. At first, I want to express my great disdain for the fact that today we are discussing the Constitutional Court's proposal, with today's Constitutional Court, in fact, is losing its ability to decide, because a large number of judges are ending office, and I don't see the reason, I don't understand why we were waiting for December 12th to put this item on the agenda. I'm not going to waste any time here, not a word of when it was necessary and how to regulate the agenda of this Parliament and the meeting, and that's what the President of Parliament and the College and the Vice President is doing, but I think it's very bad that on the day when the term of office ends, or the judges of the Constitutional Court, we're just having a debate about all this. The President of the Republic sent his proposal on November 23rd, and I don't understand why the President of the Assembly was only here on November 14th asking for proposals from parliamentary clubs, on November 29th, she got this, and very bad manners, and a very bad approach to discussing one of these essential things. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I'm not going to comment on the parliamentary club I'm in, the decisions of the Constitutional Court in these years behind us, I want to say one thing that I think is very important, very important, and to point out that it has produced great controversy. It is a decision to cut pensions and salaries, not in essence, neither did the Constitutional Court, since it refused to put that initiative on the agenda at all for various reasons. But by reason of that decision, the Constitutional Court in the professional public has produced a number of controversys and I think very much has brought down its credibility. It's a bad recommendation for every candidate on this list, who is currently the judge of the Constitutional Court, and I think that's one thing that's very much to be taken care of. I'm not talking about anyone individually. They reiterate that we all consider together at the DS – Together for Serbia that this is a bad way to determine the session schedule in parliament and that on today, the day when the term of office of the Constitutional Court judges stands out on the agenda. Other things that are within this united debate, which is why I insisted that Mr. Tomic go inside. It is about other proposals, a proposal for members of the VSS, proposals for judges, proposals for the resolution of judges and all other things, which falls within the classical judicial area. What I think is very important to all of us is that we get some answers here. Of course, I highly respect that Mr. Tomic is here, but it would be good to have an answer why the President of the Cassation Court and the first man of the VSS doesn't come to this assembly? He's not coming to the Justice Committee's meetings, he's not coming to parliament. These are big and important things and this parliament deserves the President of the VX to do it and to show up here, so that we can ask him what we think is important. Then I'll ask Mr. Tomic, since you're here, and you're a competent man, and you've been in the institution you're in for a long time, anyway, you've been a very long time judge. The final decision of the VSS of 22 November this year found that 2975 judges were systematized. So much VSS holds that it should be a judge in Serbia, and that it's filled somewhere less than 2800 places, so 2792. What I think is important for citizens to know, and for us to get answers to data that the European Commission has worked in the Serbian judiciary for the efficiency of the judiciary, there are 40 judges in Serbia for 100,000 people. When compared to other European countries, some are closer to us, not only geographically but also historically, in political history, some further, then raise questions. In Bulgaria there are 30 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. In Romania, 20 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. If a judicial system was set up in Serbia as well as in Romania, instead of these 2800 judges, 1400 judges should be tried in Serbia. Not to mention some countries that have a different legal tradition and are really not comparable to Serbia, but in Denmark there are six judges per 100,000 inhabitants. In Ireland between two and three, two and a half. There are dramatic differences. In Serbia in 2010, there were 1900 judges and about 550 judges for violations at that time, when we compare with this present state, it is 2450. Today, like I said, it's about 2800. Now let's see how things are with the number of solved cases and what's going on in our courts. In 2011, courts in Serbia made almost two million and 800,000 decisions. Last 2015, two million and 80 thousand, so over 700 thousand decisions less than in 2011, 350 judges more, 800 thousand decisions less. I asked these questions on the Justice Committee, so I couldn't get an answer for all sorts of reasons. Now there's Mr. Tomic, so let's see what this is all about. In the basic courts in 2011, a judge made 1500 decisions on average in 2012, 900 decisions. From 2013 to 2015, about 800 decisions. These are statistics made by those who are not only consultants but are also partners and the Ministry of Justice of Serbia and the VSS and are engaged, here we are now, together with our institutions, implementing negotiations, namely on chapters 23 and 24, as at this moment the most important topics of negotiations for our accession, so for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. What I think is more than obvious is that in Serbia today we have a problem with the efficiency of the judiciary, that this is a big topic of the agenda, that it is necessary to see here also the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and that we can get answers to all the issues that are important here and which are important. The interesting thing and very important, is that this number of judges from 2011, which, therefore, for 350 less than now, has made significantly more decisions, and that, from 2011 to today, a major reform effort has been carried out in the judicial system. This refers to executives that make up one huge corps of all cases in our judiciary and, as we all know very well because we participated, the largest number of MPs here, since half of 2015, has established a system of notebooks. So the notaries became legal reality, as well as private perpetrators, of course. What has increased the number of judges in Serbia, when Serbian courts lose competencies under judicial reform conducted? And how is it possible, and that's not the subject, so it's possible because it's part of our lives, but what are the answers to that increased number of judges making fewer decisions? Well, when a proposal comes here for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I suppose it would be good to hear what the idea of improving the work of the High Council of the Judiciary, which has such a decisive role in the functioning of the judicial system, is set up by the Constitution. These are big and important issues and I think it's very bad that we've brought this debate together in the weather, before the deadline for the Constitutional Court judges, with such an important issue as the election of a new member of the High Council of Justice. Ignoring the problem can't solve anything. Ignoring such topics can only make things worse. Then it is very important to have a clear picture and idea of what Serbian citizens think of the judiciary. The World Bank has been doing a public opinion survey and says, according to the latest survey -- Serbian citizens least trust the judiciary. It turns out 68% of them don't believe in courts, 68%. This is 2016, over. The respondents believe that the judiciary is not effective in 2016, that the 2016 judiciary is not independent, that it is not impartial and that it is not professional enough. The World Bank, here we see very much that our government is relying on the World Bank and I think it's a good thing they have such partners, even 87% say that court proceedings take too long. The perception is that the judiciary is not independent and that perception has deteriorated, the World Bank said, from 2009 to today. It is particularly worrying that, and this is important that Serbian citizens also know, 25% of judges, 33% of prosecutors and 60% of lawyers believe that the judiciary is not independent. When we opened chapters 23 and 24, competent institutions also hired a public opinion investigator named Ipsos, who has come to find out even more difficult, that even 80% of Serbian citizens do not believe in the judiciary. Then you ask yourself, what could be the cause? These are, therefore, all the topics I am referring to here to the authorised representative, Mr. Tomic, since the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mr. Milojevic, did not find it necessary to come here to this Parliament, so that we could all discuss these topics together. So, you can't ask yourself what could be the cause of this very poor observation, perception, the poor view that Serbian citizens have on the judiciary in our country? He says one of the advisory bodies of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Council – in all his reports on the judiciary he drew attention to the violation of presupervisedness, the assumptions of innocence by members of the government and the problems that prosecutors and judges have due to such behaviour. That is said the government's advisory body, which is called the Anti-Corruption Council. The council asked to stop the practice of first media politicians talking about the crimes of certain persons, and then to introduce the interior minister who said the persons were arrested and that only then the prosecution was involved in the story. It's all said by the Anti-Corruption Council. The politicians' behaviour was continued, and our government, therefore, did not accept their objections. The fact that the executive power abuses institutions directly for the consequence has this deep mistrust of Serbian citizens towards justice. The mistrust of Serbian citizens towards justice leads to the fact that we have a broken foundation not for our political system, but for our country. That's why it's important that we get here as soon as we see the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, so we can open a debate on all this stuff. Just over a year ago, at a meeting organised by the OSCE on 12.11.2015, judges made public that they were scared, judges, imagine now, because judges are also people who have to take care of their existence and the existence of their family. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think it is good that all together, because this is a matter that far exceeds our party differences and political disagreements and the battles that we have fought here in Parliament, we ask that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mr Milojevic, appear in this Assembly as soon as possible, and we will make a formal proposal of such nature and we will also do it through the Justice Committee, and also here in Parliament, so that we can have a meaningful and meaningful, over-debate on this matter. I will conclude that, given the huge disagreements with the parliamentary majority, with the parliamentary majority of the parliamentary club that shares a very important value, which is that Serbia should become an EU member as soon as possible. Of course there are those who strongly and strongly oppose it, which is also legitimate. Chapters 23 and 24 are the topic of negotiations that are currently dealing with what I was talking about here. That is why it is important that we all have together one logical and good debate, which will be deprived of our usual politics, so that we can do as best and as quickly as possible to give our institutions support, above all to the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, so that they can do what their job is in the best possible way, as well as to the Ministry of Justice as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9931	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9932	I thank you, Chairman. I'm a little surprised by the little bit of tolerance you've now expressed, and I'm calling for Article 106(1). The Rules of Procedure, because, with respect for being able to accept and extend the context of the topic we are discussing, yet here the complete discussion of my predecessor was absolutely out of the question. I must remind myself that we are discussing staff solutions, discussing candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, on the one hand, to discuss the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, judges who are first elected to serve as judges, the termination of the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the General Court in Krusevec, etc. The previous speaker did not touch any of these points that are on the agenda, and questions were raised here by the mandated promoter for these staff solutions. I ask you, Chairman, that this degree of tolerance you've expressed is being eliminated, because we've spent a great deal of time on a debate that may be the subject of some other debate elsewhere or perhaps in this place, but at a point that's going to be on the agenda, not the way it's been said here. Before that, we had a completely different approach from the same speaker who challenged a completely legitimate right to Mr. Martinovic, as an authorised promoter, and then jumped out of the topic in general. I ask that in the future at least in this part the Rules of Procedure are not broken, although someone wants to take a far different angle of observation and in a broader context analyze some facts that are absolutely not on the agenda. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9933	Thank you. I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petrovic talked about the candidates and made an analysis of the state of justice from his corner. It's very hard to separate it from the subject. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9934	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, I would like to talk about the procedure of this election, because this assembly is part of this procedure. We choose several types of judges today, select some judges who are elected for the first time – two, select the seven presidents of the courts and choose or propose candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court. I'll talk about these things. I want to explain first how we should understand our function here, i.e. What are we doing here? So we cannot enter the process of nominating the President of the Republic as Judges of the Constitutional Court. We can also not enter the process of assessing which candidates we can propose for the presidents of the courts or those who first take office because it is reserved for the High Council of Justice. But what we can do in either case, and in another case, is to check and see how the whole nomination procedure for these candidates is done. I would like to speak first of all about this procedure proposed by the High Council of Justice, namely the candidates proposed by the High Council of the judiciary, because I think there have been many shortcomings in this process that should be corrected. So we come at the end of the process. What the High Council of Justice has prepared we now need to finalise and make a final decision on who will be the President of the Court, and who will be the judges for the first time. In order to be able to do that, it is necessary to have all the necessary information on how we got to these candidates. We, unfortunately, don't have that information, and not only do we not have them, but even after a few interventions, let's say, on my personal side, to get that information, we still don't have them. How can we make a decision based on information, if we don't have basic information on how the entire process of proposing candidates went to the Supreme Judiciary Council itself? I don't think we can. Here's the information we need to know whether our decision is right or wrong. So, of these seven judges for the presidents of the courts and of these two who are first proposed for judicial functions, so next to them and their biographies that we got, that's fine, we need to know who the people who were also candidates and who weren't proposed. We don't know how many there are in the case of a candidate for the President of the Court. We know, however, that for some positions there was only one candidate, so in that case obviously no information is needed, but in some other cases, do we really know who the other candidates were and what their qualifications were. We don't even know in the case of people who are first elected to a judicial office who were their opponents. How do we know if what we are offered is well, in accordance with the regulations, if we do not know who the candidates were and how the High Council of the Judiciary decided that these very people who were proposed to us are? So we don't know anything about it. Last time we picked judges for the first time, in October of the month, I asked the High Council for information on all the candidates and I really got it. I've got the biographies of all candidates, both those who are proposed and those who are not proposed. Then I took it myself and tried to calculate to see if the High Council of the Judiciary did a good job when he scored the candidates and proposed them. Let me remind you just, and then and now we haven't got any rank-lists and an explanation which is why some candidates are proposed and some don't. We only got their biographies. When you have more candidates, some of which are rejected and some remain, you have to have a written explanation, which is why some are falling away and some aren't. You have to have a rank list. We didn't get that either then or now. There is a way that this ranking is determined and it is very precise and can be very easily quantified, expressed in some numbers and there is an explanation in a document called the Decision on the definition and criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic", number 49/2009, and it stands on the website of the High Council of Justice. So, this is not my personal impression right now, but there is a written decision that obliges the High Council of the Judiciary, according to that document, to choose someone as a judge for the first time, you need to see what his average grade is from the study, how long he studied and the grades of his superiors, if, for example, he worked in court as a judicial assistant. It's very easy to quantify, because everything can be numerically expressed. Then I took all these documents that I received from the High Council of the Judiciary and I randomly selected two candidates who were proposed and two candidates who were not proposed and I got absolutely amazing results. Those who are proposed have fewer points than those who are not proposed, randomly chosen. How's that? I wanted to do the same now for these two candidates, but this time I didn't get any information at all, that is. biographies from no candidate who has not been proposed. So I couldn't even compare it. So if I, as a MP, which is a public function, can't get information about what's going on in the High Council of the Judiciary, what do ordinary citizens do? Should I, as an MP, ask the Commissioner for Public Information for that information? Otherwise, the judge's office is a public matter. That's something the whole public needs to be familiar with. You can't just send public biography to those who are proposed. It's okay, of course, it's good to know the biographies, but we need to know who those people aren't and how you got here. Do you know, for example, that in the entire process of electing judges who are first elected to the post? Those who drop out, don't have the right to appeal, there's no procedure that they can complain about that they haven't passed on. They can't even see a reason why they're not proposed and some others are. As for the election of judges from the president of the courts, the situation is no better. So that's where the people who have been judges are chosen for a long time and now are for the first time elected president of the courts. And here I was looking for biographies of both those who have passed, suggested, and those who have not been suggested. We got these first ones, we didn't get these others. I also asked for a personal list, the personal list is according to the Law on Judges, a document that stands in court for every judge who stands and the data on possibly his disciplinary responsibility. You know, and you have to know that, because that's what the High Council of the Judiciary takes into account according to this decision, when it makes a final decision on who it's going to propose. If, say, a judge during his career, had a disciplinary procedure and was disciplined, was he worthy of being judge? We should know that. The high council of the judiciary also needs to bring some sort of explanation, which is why it has proposed that these candidates be the presidents of the court. There's no argument either. See what the High Council of the Judiciary has to determine in order to know what someone suggested. Whether the candidate is capable of organising court work, whether he knows the affairs of the judicial administration, whether he enjoys reputation for his colleagues, whether he is able to communicate successfully, whether he is able to co-operate with other institutions and bodies, whether he shows dignity in representing the court, etc. These are all things that the High Council of the Judiciary probably knows something about, and we don't know anything. And we should know. We should see a written explanation showing how the High Council of the Judiciary proposed these judges, not some others. This kind of process, which is unfortunately non-transparent, is not good for selecting judges, because, I repeat again, we are the ones who make the final decision on this, we are authorized to make the final decision. We tap here in the dark and we have to decide. At the Committee meeting a few days ago, when we discussed this, said one MP, so you know it's personal data. They can't be personal data because this is a public function. The personal list does not contain personal data on the private life of the candidate, but data that are relevant to his work as judge, i.e. the President of the Court. Also, says another MP in the committee's area, only those who are expert can assess who is actually a real candidate for the judge and president of the court. Yeah, I'm not asking to judge it, but I want to see how you figured it out. I don't see it from here. As for the election of the Constitutional Court judges, there is a procedure for choosing something different and there is great discretion, i.e. A discretionary decision by the president of the state proposing its candidates and the Serbian Assembly that proposes its candidates. You can't get in much of that kind of procedure because it's absolutely discreet, guaranteed to the president that he can propose to anyone he wants, provided he meets one condition, which is to be expert in legal discipline, to be a regular lawyer. Now what that means is, it's not quite clear, but let's assume that we can agree on an opportunity to be a kind of lawyer. My objections to the choice of the Constitutional Court judges are next. This system, which implies great discretion both on the part of the President of the Republic and on the side of the National Assembly, is bad because there are no quantification criteria that can be determined whether anyone is really competent to be judge of the Constitutional Court. In my understanding, I can't imagine that anyone could be a Constitutional Court judge, which should be a function that comes at the top of someone's career without ever being a judge, that he was never a lawyer and that he was never a public prosecutor or assistant prosecutor. It's unimaginable to me. And yet, half of the proposed candidates have never had any contact with legal practice, with judicial practice. They never tried in court, never represented anyone in court, never filed charges before the court. How is that possible? I think the system that allows it, and yet it's all legal, because it's possible to suggest someone who hasn't had any contact with court practice. I can understand, okay, there's a university professor who's very qualified for legal discipline and maybe with them can happen, or can be accepted, that someone who didn't have concrete court practice is proposed, but I think there's too much on this candidate list. There are too many people who have never been to court as active participants in the trial. I think that's bad, I think that should change, I think that in the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, too, a system of public competition should be introduced, where judges will report to the competition and where qualifications for their choice will be to have some trial experience. It's like a Supreme Court judge. Now imagine, take the Supreme Court to some decision that the Constitutional Court has knocked down, and the Constitutional Court is full of people who have never tried. What would that look like? I think the Constitutional Court, as a special category, should abolish and create a department at the Supreme Court to deal with constitutional issues. For this department, judges must be elected on the basis of a public competition because in the way they are now elected, candidates can only be people who have political ties. That's bad. So, only people who know the President of the Republic. Only people who know someone in the National Assembly, i.e. The head of the majority in the National Assembly. Others cannot approach the whole process at all, the electoral process. They can't be candidates at all. If the judges are elected this way, in such a non-transparent way, I am going back to the choice from which we started, therefore, both these judges who choose for the presidents of the court and for the judges of the Constitutional Court. If judges are elected like this, there is room for these judges to remain in debt, and judges who are in charge cannot judge by their own conscience and cannot judge by applying justice. I suggest that this whole process be halted and that we inform ourselves of the people who have been proposed to us, as well as those who have not been proposed and the way the High Council of the judiciary has made a decision, so let us then decide what we are asked to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9935	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9936	I thank the chairman. Today, when we are discussing an extremely important topic, we are entering disputes and particularly parts of the opposition when it comes to human resources in a completely unfounded way. There's something here that can't be the subject of a dispute. Why? Because the choice of judges by all points of the agenda that we are discussing, both for the Constitutional Court and for the courts of general jurisdiction, is governed by the law of the prescribed procedure. Is this a legal procedure that anyone likes or dislikes? Should I change it or shouldn't I? That can't be the point of the agenda and it can't be the subject of discussion. We had a procedure that was prescribed. She can be considered missing from someone's point of view. It may even be disputed, but it is prescribed by both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, in particular by the provisions of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and other procedural, legal and material-law regulations relating to this matter. There was also a dispute here which, in my deep conviction, cannot also be a subject of disputation, which is the legitimacy of an authorised promoter. I will focus on what is meant by the candidacys, or proposals for judges of the Constitutional Court. We have heard here certain comments that the Constitutional Court is not the highest court case. It can also be interpreted, but in any case, in a figurative sense, the Constitutional Court is the top of the Serbian judiciary pyramid. Why? Well, because he makes decisions according to constitutional appeals and decisions, that is, against decisions even of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is the court of the highest court in the case of courts of general jurisdiction. If so, and so, then we must approach this matter with extreme seriousness and utmost responsibility, because in the Constitutional Court they must be chosen, or appointed those who are the best and who can respond to our trust with expertise, professionalism, dedicated and responsible work. There were also disputes here as to what are the criteria for the appointment, i.e. the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, these criteria are set with two aspects. One aspect is years of life, the other are years of work experience, or better to say. Whether that's enough or not, it can't be the subject of today's debate again, because we're talking about candidates. Anyone who has 40 years of life, or more than 40 years of life and at least 15 years of experience in the legal profession, can be nominated. Then where did the promoter go wrong? It's not anywhere. We have two legislators here, one President of the Republic, the other Parliament, and again with the correct legitimacy of the promoters. As far as the criteria are concerned, when we talk about prominent lawyers, then I guess it's logical that, under these criteria, what is necessary to run, or qualify for such a high judicial function, should be understood. And when we speak of what a prominent lawyer is, it is one who has no doubt a dignity, no doubt a professional reference, therefore, a high degree of professionality, morality and a literal qualification of his work results, and this result of work in the past period. What we were also talking about on the Committee of Resolution, the Committee on Law and Justice, was precisely in the direction which is why among the candidates, which is why there are 18, so ten on the parliamentary list and eight on the list proposed by the President of the Republic as an authorised proposing, there are no more represented candidates from the interior, that is why there are a huge number of candidates from Belgrade right now. The SPS parliamentary group in this direction wants to make its contribution in that it will point out another fact, which is the fact that among the candidates, because they are not all judges, there must be a significant number of those directly from the courts, who come from the courts and come from the courts. Why? Because a decision-making procedure is also conducted before the Constitutional Court, especially in constitutional complaints of court decisions, where a special and degree of knowledge and experience is required, both in procedural matter and in material and legal matter, where infringements of certain rights will be determined. That's why the promoters, and there are more, are the parliamentary groups that have made their proposals, I'm sure, made the best proposals. In this regard, the SPS parliamentary group is committed and responsible precisely in order to contribute to the quality of the work of the Constitutional Court through the judge who will be appointed by that court, has given a candidate whom it considers to meet all these conditions and that, by quality, it can respond to the call of the Constitutional Court judges. Why? Because the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court on the one hand is specific because, among other things, the Constitutional Court, within its jurisdiction, resolves and conflicts of jurisdiction between courts, national authorities, resolves some other conflicts of jurisdiction, assesses or examines the legality and constitutionality of acts, laws, general acts, organisations or institutions entrusted with public authority, but let us not forget one fact, one fact that citizens need to know, and that is the fact that until recently the Constitutional Court has debated the violation of the rights which is the party's fundamental right to proceedings, which is a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period. By passing the Law of Infringement to the Court within a reasonable period, the Constitutional Court was relieved of a large number of cases where the constitutional appeals concerned infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Why? Because the parties were unsatisfactory not only in the long term but also in not a small number of cases by several decades of court or judges, or in other ways, injuries that just indicate that there has been a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and what has been the consequence? Well, there was a consequence that after the Constitutional Court as the last barrier to such a violation in the case of the domestic judiciary, the party had the right to initiate proceedings before a court in Strasbourg and to seek compensation for damages in the event of a breach of such right. Currently, the Constitutional Court remains in charge of violation of the right to justice in the proceedings the party is suffering from. However, what we in the SPS parliamentary group particularly point out is that the Constitutional Court has, and we are safe from now on, determined according to such injuries in an adequate manner. Whether it has ever been viewed differently by the public, whether the public has seen it as a poor work of the Constitutional Court or not, it is nevertheless a question that comes out of the context of what we are discussing today, because we must bear in mind that the Constitutional Court has always stood in order to protect the right of freedom through the Constitution guaranteed and guaranteed all these rights and freedoms and principles and that most of the decisions that have been made in this direction have been made in favour of the party that has asked it to protect itself. There have been a lot of comments here about how the procedure is now being conducted the way it is conducted. Well, because it can't be different. There was even a proposal to suspend this procedure, which is absolutely unacceptable. We have a regular procedure that we have to respect and beyond that we cannot move. What does it mean to suspend the decision of the Constitutional Court judges? Well, now we have a situation in which the Constitutional Court is currently only six judges because nine judges have ceased to function for certain reasons, which means that we are obliged as parliament to contribute to the Constitutional Court's completion as soon as possible and that the Constitutional Court appears as soon as possible in a functional sense of the words, i.e. that it can work both by law and by the Constitution and make appropriate decisions. It is our duty, it is our duty, and we must fulfill this obligation and duty as soon as possible, and that is why this debate is being held today. As far as authorized promoters are concerned, there is absolutely nothing to be resented. The President of the Republic, using his right, has proposed eight candidates, four of whom will be elected by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. We are the People's Messengers. On the other hand, it is certain that we will confirm the list of 10 candidates proposed by this parliament, and on that list, the President of the Republic, using his right, will appoint five judges of the Constitutional Court. What we consider inadmissible in the SPS parliamentary group today was an attempt by the opposition to use names and last names to tactically contribute to disqualification of candidates proposed for judges of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, it is an immoral, uncivilized and hypocritical act that contributes nothing to this procedure in a legitimate way, to be just and to be efficient and quality. I thank all MPs who have not used such an opportunity that is absolutely unacceptable for all the reasons I have put forward to speak of names and names. The credibility and professional dignity of the people who are proposed cannot be doubted in this way, because each of the proposed candidates has its own professional references, each of the proposed candidates in their work résumé has its results and successes in their work, regardless of what business they are dealing with, regardless of whether they are now looking at the aspect of whether he is a professor of state college, or a university at the state university in the area of the Constitution. Of course, that everyone would be happy if everything was just about that matter, but it's not, nor can it. That's why our candidate's proposal was right in that direction to get the candidate out of the justice system, to be from the court and to come from the court, to have the results of the work that are verifiable, to have the results of the work that are and how significant and that these work results have left a mark in the judicial system. Therefore, we in the SPS parliamentary group have absolutely no reason not to contribute to the work of the ruling coalition, and also, as a law, authorized that we can propose to subscribe to this proposal, because we consider the proposal to be of great quality. What is very important to point out is the fact that hardly anyone in this Assembly, at least in the way it was tried today, can challenge the quality of any candidate and those on the list proposed by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, no doubt deserve attention. Mr. Martinovic pointed out the names and last names of people who are undeniably highly professional and therefore their work résumés are extremely extensive, but not as extensive, but as those working biographies contain what their results mean, their successes in doing the job they are doing, both in the area of the profession and in the field of justice, because on the list of candidates proposed by Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, we also have the president of the Chamber of Commerce, who is undoubtedly one of the most successful courts, generally observed, in the system of justice of the Republic of Serbia. So, with nothing, absolutely nothing, no single argument, no single relevant fact can be challenged by what the quality of the proposal of the two proposings implies. We don't have a third proposer here. We do not have a Supreme Cassation Court, which is the third proposing candidate for the Constitutional Court, which ultimately could not, nor did it have any need, but that is why the two applicants who have been authorised in the legal procedure have made proposals and I am convinced that among these proposals they will be the best, they will be the most qualified judges of the Constitutional Court. As for the proposal Mr Tomic made on behalf of the VSS, it would indeed be extremely inappropriate for us to assess and assess both the validity and quality of these proposals from this point of view. I have always pointed out that the VSS with its responsible approach, when it comes to selecting the holders of judicial functions, has found the best solutions, and in this case it is so present and in this case, when we consider this point of the agenda, there is a lot of trust in the work of the VSS, and I believe that what is proposed, both in relation to judges who are first elected to the judicial office and in relation to other staff solutions, is well and quality proposed. We have a situation here, I hope I won't make a mistake, Mr. Tomic, which was the necessity, which is to determine the termination of the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. Why? If we hadn't done so, we would have had legal consequences, both for the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and so on, precisely because the same president of the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce was elected judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. It is only one proof that the Belgrade Commercial Court of Appeal is a court that should have trust and a court that has so far shown its work results that trust cannot in any case be questioned. In the end, I just want one more fact to point out. Today, and yesterday, on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, we found something that should go out of here as a message to the citizens, but a message that does not involve disqualification, which does not mean that names and last names of people are, in a pesoriatic sense, being mouthwashed, does not mean that someone who does not know much about the judiciary, or the profession represented in the judiciary, through intrigues, through plots, through anything that does not correspond to the National Assembly and to us MPs who represent the National Assembly, thus destroying the reputation of candidates who, at least some of them, will certainly be judges of the Constitutional Court and judges of the General Court. That is why I join everything that has been said on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs and what is by the mandated proposing, whose, again, I say, legislation cannot be questioned no matter how much it has challenged it, I believe it is a quality, good solution, and therefore the parliamentary group of the SPS in the voting day will support the overwhelming establishment of the list proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament, Maja Gojkovic, with 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, and I think we will certainly be able to find the best of the best solutions on the list of proposals proposed by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9937	The word has been sent by the people, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I regret to say that the SRS parliamentary group has in some way been bypassed in preparing this list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, and perhaps there are our faults, because we have not been particularly concerned about finding a way to participate in this, given what the parliamentary majority is and how difficult it is for the opposition to go through. The way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected by the Constitution is not well set up. I remember giving Tomislav Nikolic instructions from The Hague on how to set up a session of the Constitutional Commission. All my instructions he simply ignored, and he got involved with Tadic and they wrote there to some members of the group what they wanted. What's done is done. There's this right now, and we have to deal with this. But there are a few problems here that we need to essentially consider, let's see what these lists are like for us. You know, what I think about Tomislav Nikolic and as a man, and as a politician and as president of the Republic, but this time as if he was a little more serious when proposing this list of candidates, so out of eight candidates, he suggested four who, in my opinion, meet the conditions. These are the people scientists who do the right thing, and they do it in their own right, they have a huge number of published scientific papers. Some of them I know, some of them I don't know at all, for the first time I've heard of their names, because my area of interest isn't in their branch, but we have Professor Milan Shkulic here, from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who I mean is an undeniable candidate and we, as an opposition, are ready to vote for him. We have Miroslav Nikolic, from Panchev, whom I have never heard of before, but I see by his scientific papers that he is a serious candidate. We have Dr. Jovan Ciric, director of the Institute of Comparative Law, although the regime proposes it, I see by the number of published scientific papers that he deserves it. We won't go deaf when the time comes to vote. Dr Vladimir Djuric of Belgrade also has a huge number of scientific and professional works, apparently a man of competence. Besides them, we have candidates who may be said to be good people, I don't know them, but they don't have the references necessary for the Constitutional Court judge. What's listed here isn't enough. It's not enough for such a high function. In the system of division of power, as is ours, although not consistently implemented, each branch of government has its top. The National Assembly is the highest body of the legislative authority, above which there is no senior body of the legislative authority. In the area of the executive government, the president of the Republic, as head of state, is officially the Supreme Chief of Executive, essentially he is not. It is essentially the highest authority of the executive government. However, under the conditions of emergency, the situation of immediate war danger and war conditions, there is an expression that it is indeed, and then it can take over certain national congregation authority. So we also have in the area of executive power quite clearly demarcated. We don't have a judicial authority. We have two high court cases there. The Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation. When someone asks me what the highest judicial authority in Serbia is, I'm not sure I can answer. By the nature of the matter, it should be the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court must then fit into the constitutional system of the judicial authority, so that there may be certain authority there, at least in declaring incompetence to perform a judicial function or something like that, to conduct proceedings against the Supreme Court judges. So you can find an entire area of jurisdiction that would be attributed here. Unfortunately, we don't have it now. What's our constitutional judiciary like? Yugoslavia was the first of the communist countries to introduce a constitutional judiciary. And today it doesn't have many countries, some have, for example, France, America never had it, many other countries don't have it, many more countries that don't have a constitutional judiciary than they have. Countries that do not have the view that their system of judicial authority is sufficient to protect the Constitution itself directly, and its provisions, and constitutional rights of citizens and institutions. It is not bad that we have this tradition of constitutional law, and these constitutional courts have never been independent. They were always toy executives. So is our current Constitutional Court. There were honorable judges there, and in this composition there were honorable judges. They expired their first term and no one proposed them for a second term, such as Dr Olivera Vukic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and Dragan Stojanovic. Why didn't they suggest again? Because they voted against that act of the Constitutional Court by which the Brussels Agreements were declared political rather than legal document. Here, their punishment has arrived. Two great lawyers and an honorable man. On the other hand, we have Vesna Ilic Prelic, who is currently the President of the Constitutional Court, and is again proposed to judge the Constitutional Court. And what's she famous for? Because she gave her warm support to the Serbian government's position by ignoring its role as judge of the Constitutional Court and what that function means, which would have to mean in the legal system. We remember this Vesna Ilic Prelic from the time when the Constitutional Court discussed the status of MPs and their mandates. In some popular dictionary, a little simple, called property over office. Is the MP the owner of a mandate or a political party on whose list he was elected? The Constitutional Court ruled that every MP owned his mandate, in violation of the Constitution. The Constitution in Article 102, paragraph 2, says - the MP is free to put his mandate, under certain conditions, at the disposal of the political party on whose request he was elected MP. That's what the Constitution guarantees. And the Constitutional Court is overruling it. Vesna Ilic Prelic is one of those judges who stepped on it. This is a flagrant violation of the Constitution. The consequences are catastrophic. The consequences are those famous flyers, who steal the mandate of foreigners on whose list they are elected and run off, are sold to another party with that mandate. Whoever wrote this Constitution, and also the highest body of the legislative authority that adopted this Constitution, the Constitution also went to a referendum, wanted to prevent the theft of parliamentary mandates, and the Constitutional Court stepped down this constitution and its proper provision and said they could steal mandates to the will, can trade mandates, mandates go to the market, who offers more bids, so we have in this assembly meeting. We have MPs who have stopped being party members whose list they've been elected to, and they're still here, and they're making up their own status. Now they're self-sufficient MPs. Now they're like this, now they're like this. That position is absolutely immoral. That's why we Serbian radicals are against Vesna Ilic Prelic's election as judge of the Constitutional Court. No matter how much she's president right now, we don't choose her anymore, and someone else chooses to be president. As far as the Brussels Agreements are concerned, I've already talked about it at some point. The Brussels agreements are anti-constitutional, both packages. They did not go through the National Assembly, they were not ratified, they were not concluded in the way international agreements are concluded, and they stem from commitments by the state of Serbia, which stem from regulated international agreements. And the judges of the Constitutional Court, I asked them a recent and parliamentary question, I got the answer, they continue to distribute that it is a political document, not legal, and that therefore the Constitutional Court had no authority to assess the constitutionality and legality of these documents. How are political documents only if they produce legal consequences? Legal consequences have long been produced and irreparable damage has caused the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people in general, especially Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Why are we even going to have a Constitutional Court, if that's how he's going to behave? When you select incompetent people in the Constitutional Court, you see in the Boris Tadic case, he suggested several competent, several incompetent, so who passed. And Tomislav Nikolic did the same thing, four competent, judging by their expertise, and four completely incompetent, so what God gives them in the vote. You know, people tend to vote for it sometimes because some candidate is a woman, because he's younger, because he's like this, because he's like this, and he doesn't care if he really meets the conditions. We have in the case of a candidate who has proposed the National Assembly out of a total of 10 only three in my opinion meet the conditions. Although Katarina Manojlović Andric is already a member of the Constitutional Court, I can't see how she deserved to be in that position last time, even though she was the Supreme Court judge of Serbia 2006/2007. years, and aside from the fact that there are data that she voted as Vesna Ilic Toolic in these two cases. Here, of the 10 candidates, three meet the conditions, Dr Dragana Kolaric at the Criminal and Police Academy, Dr Tijana Shulan, professor at the Criminal and Police Academy, I don't know where they both found them from the same academy and Dusan Ignatovic, a lawyer from Belgrade. Only they have a respectable number of scientific papers and I suppose their quality is solid, given how they are published, as special monographs or in distinguished magazines. That's why, since five judges of the Constitutional Court are elected at the National Assembly's proposal to return this part of the proposal to work, then to the National Assembly, at one of the sessions. Let us only plead at this session on Tomislav Nikolic's proposal, since we have four candidates there who meet the conditions, and four are elected. Since we don't have five candidates here that meet the conditions, let's put this aside until next session. I insist on that given one more thing. With each of the proposed candidate lists, one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of autonomous provinces. This is the position of four members of the 172 Constitution. So on one list there must be one member, from another member list. We don't have anyone suggested with KIM. Tomislav Nikolic didn't take care of it. What happened here? This is a reason more for the proposal to go back to work. We don't have a KIM candidate, and we have a Duke's catastrophic candidate. His name is Dr. Tamash Korhec. He absolutely doesn't meet the conditions. How can he not meet the conditions? He does not meet the requirements of being presented as a doctor of science, and in order to exercise the right to this degree of calling and the scientific title of a doctor of science acquired abroad, he must submit a degree in PhD in nostrification. He submitted it to the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, and it didn't pass there. Do you know what he did then? Then he spoke to Fabus at the Sremska Kamenica in 2003. Fabus was at the time a college that had only economic studies, a suspicious private college. There are various private schools. There are serious ones, there are semi-serious ones, there are non-serious ones, there are extremely suspicious ones. I've never heard of this one, until I saw documents concerning Tamash Korhec. At the time, he was just a college for economic studies, he had no legal studies programme at any level, no basics, no master's degree, no doctor's degree. The doctorate of legal science acquired abroad had nothing to compare to, to be valued and evaluated. His candidacy is completely false. The nostration of his doctorate in the field of legal science is illegal. A man whose doctoral diploma is illegally nostrificed cannot be the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I guess you'll agree to that finding sometime. Or you will vote for it out of spite. Vote. Do whatever you want. As far as Tamash Korhec is concerned, I have here a solution to his nostrification which stands at the Faculty of Service Business. He was signed by a dean by Professor Dr. Lazar Brkatic. If you are interested in this document, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic can make you a copy. See what they say here, that in 2002 he filed a request to the Faculty of Service Business in Novi Sad for the nostrification of a degree in completed doctoral studies at the Central European University in Budapest. With the request, he submitted a degree in Law School in Novi Sad correct. Master's degree in legal science studies, a certified photocopy with translation, a degree in legal science, also a review of the exams passed, but a teaching-science higher Faculty of Service Business says that the diploma is nostrified and equated with a degree in completed doctoral studies at the Faculty of Service Business, direction of management in the public service sector, and thus achieves a degree of doctorate in the field of social and legal science.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9939	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9940	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected for the judge's office, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the VSS from the order of judges of the Court of Appeals. It will support the proposal for the establishment of a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judge established by the National Assembly and will also be made known on proposals submitted by the President of the Republic for the election of the Constitutional Court. In fact, it's a good thing that this discussion has returned to one academic and normal framework, regardless of the different attitudes, because one of the current colleagues has tried, because it is more appropriate for them to have such important discussions, the level of the discussion even lowers the level of the bar story, which in no way is appropriate to this home. I fully support the proposals of judges who are elected to the judicial office, although this time it is only two judges who are elected for the first time, because this shows only the fundamentals in the work of the High Council of the judiciary and points to another fact, that they are simply chosen and managed by the quality of the candidates they propose, regardless of whether they came from the ranks of the judicial trainees or from those who were members of the judicial academy, i.e. the judicial academy. At this point, I'm saying, we have some kind of 50% - 50% and one line and another in this situation. It is obvious that the High Council of the Judiciary takes care of who it chooses and proposes in its ranks. As far as further work is concerned, frankly, I was in a great dilemma at one point whether it was good for the independence and independence of the work of the judiciary, or for its seriousness, well enough to leave it exclusively to the Whistle Council to decide one day on the choice and appointment, including these judges who take office for the first time. However, when I hear such extremely unserious discussions from individual colleagues who would like to add, I must say, the grandmothers and frogs, looking for a result that doesn't lead to anything, then I really think the waist must come in a position to decide. And, right to tell you, I can't wait for that day. I hope that only the control mechanisms of all of this will be well enough in place, that it will not be born into something that will not be good for the Serbian judiciary. When it comes to selecting candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, we here have practically two segments that we are discussing and we need to make certain decisions. Both proposals were drawn up and delivered in accordance with the Constitution and the legal procedure as foreseen by the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Can she be better and more precise? It is likely that, and the difference in the approach and seriousness of all of this, it is also evident in this because in 2007 the Constitutional Court judges were elected under this same constitution, by seeing what Mr. Martinovic provided as evidence of the relationship between the then government and the candidate judges of the Constitutional Court and what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic delivered to this Assembly as a proposal for candidates. In contrast to 2007, all parliamentary groups in the Assembly had the opportunity and the right to propose possible candidates for judges. I really don't see a single word of justification for those who, in one extremely inappropriate way, discuss this topic about candidates, about proposals for future judges of the Constitutional Court, without having had the courage or even the ability to propose to anyone. The only thing they were obviously interested in through this discussion, it was so naive, that they came up with the data that the candidate's parliamentary group proposed, because the report that was transparent, which was delivered by the president of the Assembly, showed that 10 parliamentary groups had also proposed from the proposal of 10 parliamentary groups, and these 10 candidates that were discussed by the Assembly today. It is completely transparent and completely irrelevant, which is the parliamentary group that he has proposed, and it is good that it is not spoken of, because it would obviously serve someone only one more ugly and uglier labeling of the guilty or the debtors who are due to perform a very important function in this country tomorrow. Don't be surprised why public opinion, according to another respected colleague here, was polled and said that 68% of Serbian citizens do not trust the Serbian judiciary. The merits of such a thing are borne by all of us here from this home, and those who remain silent and do not respond, and those who use no doubt any opportunity for people who are very honest, very responsible and very safe to do the work of a judge to insult, humiliate, nice labels that do not follow them by any chance, just for the sake of getting cheap political points. And last time we discussed the choice of judges who were elected for the first time to this function, I appealed and begged my colleagues not to do so, but apparently it's not worth saying. Someone because of a few votes more or less, those who don't understand it, here is looking for space for a very cheap political propaganda, not thinking about how much they're destroying the reputation of the entire state, which we're one of the important parts of. The accumulated problems in the judiciary are the subject of a special debate, but I must say that I really do not understand from which angle it was expected that due to the introduction of public enforcement institutions and public notary, the number of cases will be reduced abruptly, when material-legal laws have still been left in the hands of judges of certain parts of the procedure before the cases reach work with public executioners. We should remind ourselves once again that Serbia is still in the process of correcting and correcting the 2009 reform, which left one huge ballast to all those working in the judiciary and it is really inappropriate to comment today on those who are the most responsible for what a bunch of cases are, instead of working on them, being transferred from one court to another court, because they adopted a network that was completely dysfunctional, made a huge ballast for judges and now they wonder why in Serbia cases are not being resolved faster than that. It will probably be one day of work, and it will change the Constitution and change the Constitution, and then we need to make an account at that moment that this procedure, as defined by the Constitution, may be further experiencedly improved, because this will be the second choice of the Constitutional Court judges and the procedure for their running under this same constitution. Therefore, nothing is best, nothing is ideal, we should strive to keep this in mind for all of us when one day it is our turn to think about that kind of procedure. I thank all those who here today, regardless of the different views on the quality of certain candidates, have made an effort to do so in a highly correct and parliamentary way, to try to be justified, but I remind them that they may have, by their non-engagement, denied us the opportunity to talk about more people, because it is obvious from all of this that the President of the Assembly has received only ten proposals, and ten proposals this Assembly should also determine to forward to the President of the Republic, who will appoint five candidates from that number. If other parliamentary groups had proposed at least one more candidate, this proposal might have been better quality, but what is important is that these proposals are good. There are very high-quality people here who absolutely deserve to be judges of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I see no reason, no need to postpone the debate, nor by moving the decision to set out a list of candidates, i.e. the choice of judges from the list proposed by the President of the Republic, because only Serbia can suffer. Every day in which we are without the Constitutional Court's work, we ourselves contribute to achieving our rights later. I think it's inadmissible, and I invite you to really be very efficient and expedient in this debate and not abuse it, because the sooner we end it, the sooner we get into a situation to fulfill our legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9941	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9942	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Tomic, the esteemed Mrs. Janjic, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed an extremely important debate that we are having today, and if judges of the Constitutional Court are elected once in nine years, then this is certainly a historic call, because it will choose a new assembly of the Constitutional Court. I'm not sure, based on the debate that we're having today, that we're all aware of the moment we're taking part and what decisions we're making, because in the course of the discussion, it's been said that we should be ashamed to have this constitution, that the Serbian people are not the people who understand norms, that we may not need the Constitutional Court, that we are making a circus out of the debate on the Constitutional Court, that all candidates are party personnel and that they will be absolutely biased in making decisions. I would never, at a time when we are trying as a state to build institutions, to strengthen institutions, to build a state that is not yet finished, so I was talking about candidates for the most important institution in law enforcement, which is the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the one who is the recipient of the unity of the legal order. It is the Constitutional Court that should remove from the legal order all those regulations that disrupt the functioning of this unity. No matter how different my views on the individual decisions of the Constitutional Court were, I would not qualify as the start of an institution, only on the basis of certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, as poor, as incompetent, as inadequate, because in this way we are destroying its authority and thus making it subject to the influence of the executive authority and the public influence, which is not acceptable to the Constitutional Court in general, because the Constitutional Court did not accidentally predict that the judges of the Constitutional Court were elected for nine years. So, the government, executive power, is elected for four years, and the judges are elected for nine years. It should also be done when one authority passes to be a constitutionalist. You had the opportunity in 2007 to be elected one composition of the Constitutional Court, which in 2012, for example, made a decision on the constitutionality of the Statute of Vojvodina and the determination of the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, which, politically speaking, is contrary to what the then motionrs of the Constitutional Court saw. But is that why we qualify on this one or that constitutional court? So I want to point out the importance of refraining from strong words in the qualification of those who will be judges of the Constitutional Court tomorrow. It has been said here many times that there is fear in the judiciary that the judges are scared. Well, yeah, they're scared because they were all cleared, because someone qualified them to be party, some of the individual municipal and city committees of the parties that were then in power qualified them to be party and they solved them all. That's why we have fear. That fear must be overcome all together, by supporting the judiciary by supporting the judges, by refraining from qualified them to belong to these and those. They should be tried by law and we want to believe that the judge elected to the Constitutional Court for nine years will judge by the Constitution and will apply the Constitution and the laws and we want to believe that the judges proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary, elected to permanent office, will be tried by law. We should all strive for an independent judiciary, not to encourage fear of qualifications – you will be removed when we arrive. I don't think that's good. I don't think that's good for the state. I don't think any of us here are interested, and at least it's in the interest of the citizens. That's why I'm glad the debate is back in those streams it deserves. Our parliamentary group will support all candidates proposed by the National Assembly to be delivered to the President of the Republic for a statement. We will plead in the voting day for the candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. Of course, we expect to choose, because that is our goal, even stronger, even more independent, even more independent constitutional court. We chose one in 2007, we want to improve it. It was after the constitution was passed. We can agree or disagree with some of his decisions, and I believe that we all here certainly disagreed with some decisions, but those decisions should not be commented if we are in favour of an independent judiciary. We think that's the point. Let's let the courts work, deprive them of party pressure, deprive them of political debate, because it doesn't contribute anywhere. There is an open discussion here about the independence of the judiciary, how to secure it, how to choose judges. There were questions here whether we should all get, as the National Assembly, all the information, who ran, when he ran, how the High Council of the Judiciary chose and what criteria he had. When the Constitution is looked at and the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is examined, it is clear that he is the only one who can propose candidates. It's like he wants to go back to that system where the Assembly has chosen judges at full capacity, instead of going in the opposite direction, to provide an independent judiciary by depriving him of political influence. We think that this is the best way for representatives of the High Council of the judiciary to take full responsibility because they are, by the Constitution, a guarantee of the independence of the judiciary. Indeed, two important and significant decisions and two important discussions. I believe that all MPs, respecting the need to get an independent, independent and strong Constitutional Court, no matter what political thoughts about its decisions, will support the best candidates in the day of voting and I believe that we will support the candidate for the High Council of the judiciary, because we need a strong and independent body that will be the recipient of the independence of the judiciary and that we will support judges who are first elected to the judicial office and that they should be encouraged to gain the necessary experience in order to best judge in the judiciary and, of course, we expect more responsibility from the new President of the courts and greater efficiency in the work because citizens want it. They want to come to court, to know they've come for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9943	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. Before we move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word, I ask again – does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word, who has not used his time, of course? (No) We are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9944	A colleague who just said that this is a historic day, that once in nine years the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected and that this is indeed one privilege of this call to parliament. I agree that this was supposed to be a historic day, but unfortunately it's not. I think it's obvious why he didn't. First, today is the day when, as I understand it, the term of office of the Constitutional Court judges and if they are not elected by midnight, and they will not be elected until midnight, the Constitutional Court cannot work tomorrow. It is a relationship to the Constitutional Court, a relationship to Serbia's judiciary in general with this current authority. Secondly, the historic day is such that once in nine years, when an important topic is important, 250 MPs attend parliament. Here, by free judgment, optimistic, 45 to 46. That means there's no interest. Representatives of the ruling majority have put this historic decision on the selection of Judges of the Constitutional Court in a joint uniform search with: the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the representative of the General Court in Krusevec, the Proposal for a decision to suspend the position of President of the Criminal Court in Loznica, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Committee on Stabilisation and Association, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of the SPS and the proposal for a decision to elect members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal for the SNS. So much for the government's relationship to the historical event of the Constitutional Court's election. That I do not remind you of the Constitution, Article 166 if it is not mistaken, is so, which defines the position of the Constitutional Court and says it is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. And the decisions of this court have finally come out and are binding. Nice words, but do we have an atmosphere today that looks like any of this is supposed to happen? The term of office has expired. Seventy percent of people in Serbia think the judiciary is no good. There are less than 20% of MPs, a united proposal, half of the candidates I've heard have never entered the courtroom, will be the first time they've been elected judges of the Constitutional Court. Why is there no candidate from the opposition? There are two motives. There are two reasons. I've talked to some people, some people are afraid and say, "What do you want me to do, I'm a serious man, I'm a serious lawyer, I've worked seriously so far, I've got a serious career, I've got a family, I'm proud of her, I've got her, I've got her. Why would I get into something like this? Something to be chosen in Alexander Vukic's regime. And the other motive is for other people, shooting -- to be with them, to be chosen, to serve them, absolutely. Absolutely not. So, the answer, one of the colleagues who asked that question, I think it's very simple. What do you want to do? Since there will obviously be changes to the Constitution, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the nax tomorrow, depends on how someone wakes up in the morning and on which foot they stand first. I think it is the obligation of this House to really have one historic decision, and that is to make a decision to return this item of the agenda to dorad, to get one serious proposal, which is explained, that candidates are people, not everyone, and there are certainly good candidates here, but in the new proposal all candidates are people, worthy of the functions of the Constitutional Court judge, to be proud of being candidates, but not to be some hiding, to be people who have experience in the judiciary, regardless of whether the Constitutional Court is not the same as the ordinary court and then to be before the full parliament at a special session, or sitting, where it will be the only point, and not in the driver of other points, the new judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9945	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow farmer, ZZ, who has proudly turned his back on the coat of arms of this state, the flag of this state is in one right, the Constitutional Court will have problems in its functioning for a few days. That which they go forth is their right, and I will keep their dignity, and the dignity of their voters, as I keep my dignity, and my fellow servants, and let them choose. I'm ashamed they're not ashamed of anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed the Constitutional Court will have some problems for a few days. But I have to warn a fellow farmer, known as ZZ, an importer of wine who received subsidies for the production of the vine, that since 2001 the Constitutional Court has not, I believe, been functioning for 16, 17 or 18 months. I'm a witness to that time. Not only was ZZ something then, although he was a lot of things, he had five functions at the time, and his better half also had an influential function in the government, but the Constitutional Court did not function for 16, 17 months. Let me remind you of the unconstitutional introduction of the state of emergency. At that time, the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am a farmer but I am the more productive part, therefore, then the current constitution prescribed that the state of emergency could be introduced into part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Then, after killing the prime minister, with whom I worked extremely well, a state of emergency was introduced instead of part of territory throughout the territory. They were drawing the executive power of my colleague, the farmer of the U.S., draining all the levers from an unconstitutional emergency. Well, since there are high-ranking representatives of the judiciary here, they certainly remember that directly from the Office of Justice, the government has appointed prosecutors. Let me remind you that it was Bruno Lekarić, to remind you that it was Snezana Malovic and so on. I admit that they were hairy, as our people say, rounds of time and wool, but the truth works with complete regret for the lost life of the Prime Minister, I am obliged to say this, since my colleague has had an objection that the Constitutional Court will not function for a few days. There are times in society when there's some gap of a few days and I wanted to explain that the void that was created in his time was miles away, that it was 16 months, so this one of a few days, will certainly have less consequences than she had then. Also, I must inform you, about Mrs. Nati Mesarovic. You certainly remember, senior MPs, that the lady has been elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court, not the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court in this composition has so far decided that the election was unconstitutional and that we have here devoted a few days to the discharge of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court for the reason that the former regime party chose the first president of the court, and then elected judges. For our citizens to know what it looks like, it would be like choosing the first president of parliament, and then citizens choosing MPs. For this reason, Nate Mesarovic's choice was unconstitutional and since these former regimes always have objections to everything and everything, to remind them of their actions, and to God and my fellow farmer and to the collection of misdemeanors that were committed in his time. I also remind him of the troublesome sale of the Ustasha building, so-called The Central Committee, where the federal defenses that were very close to him, with little agreement, was signed on one contract, and a whole other contract was signed with a company that wasn't even registered at the time of the purchase contest. So if he wants to talk about something illegal, something unconstitutional, my fellow farmer had a lot to say. In the end, I have to say, it's hard to unwisely explain that he's unreasonable, that he can and wouldn't be unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9947	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. (Nataša Micic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replication to exposure? You haven't mentioned one moment. (Nataša Micic, from the site: Introduction of emergency. You haven't mentioned a moment, Mrs. Micic. (Natasa Micic, from the place: only one sentence. No, you have no basis for replication. You will have the opportunity to speak, and you are the sixth in a row to be declared a Messenger of the people. No, you have no basis for replication. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not there. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9948	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we as a national minority want to draw attention to the competent state institutions that when they choose and change judges by basic and senior courts, they have that minority representation in the national structure of the population. Until now, it has not been respected, and we want you to stand up for yourself, to respect that relationship or proportionality in the municipalities. It's not right for us to keep on the watch about it, and we won't look at it for a while, but we don't accept, for example, such as the Bujanovac General Court, of the 13 judges only three are Albanians, and the president is a Serb. The injustices and discrimination in the judiciary are quite significant, and they need to be reduced or resolved once. We also have a lot of problems with the notaries, because from the last point of some village from Presevo to Vranj we need to travel 50 kilometers for one small agreement or another act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9949	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9950	Ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speaker mentioned that it was unconstitutional to introduce an emergency after the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, because the state of emergency was not introduced on the whole territory of the country, I would like to say as someone who made the decision, of course, on a reasoned proposal from the government, that the state of emergency was not introduced in the part of Kosovo territory, or the honourable MP believes that Kosovo was not part of Serbia at that time in 2003. Simple, absolutely one untrue and insinuation that broke the Constitution. Elem, of the 11 points of the agenda in which the debate is united, without diminishing the importance of the points concerning the election of judges who are first elected, the election of a member of the VSS, the termination of the office of the President of the Court and the election of the President, certainly draws the greatest attention to the choice, that is, the debate on candidates proposed for the Constitutional Court judges. It is therefore a list of the President of the Republic, of eight candidates, of which the National Assembly elects four and a list established by the National Assembly, of which the President of the Republic appoints five candidates. First, therefore, the jurisdiction and position of the Constitutional Court is determined by the Constitution. This is, therefore, the 2006 Constitution, which has many shortcomings and flaws, which we pointed to at the time of its adoption, and we specifically warned in the wrong way of its adoption. The 2006 Constitution, truth, had the intensities to increase the importance of the Constitutional Court by extending its jurisdiction and adding some new ones. But that absolutely didn't work, that intensity didn't work. If nothing else, because Article 167 actually states that the Constitutional Court also performs other tasks established by the Constitution and other laws, which is an absolute degradation of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court actually assesses constitutionality and legality and protects human and minority rights and freedoms only under the Constitution and constitutional law, and not ordinary laws. Then, it is not possible for the Constitutional Court to resolve in a larger and then it would be much more effective and could not have excused so many examples of silence instead of decision-making in constitutional disputes that always have a less or more political element. So, for example, no decision has been taken eight years ago by LDP, for example, for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of NIS sales, as well as many other cases. What is also not good in the Constitution, and should think about it when it changes, is that the subsequent control is established by the Constitutional Court, therefore, the law, therefore, it controls the National Assembly and the laws that we adopt. A preventive control is also foreseen which simply cannot be carried out because it is a short period of time. Namely, the parliamentary minority, therefore, can initiate at least a third of the MPs a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of a particular law or a provision, but the Constitutional Court has a short period of only seven days to resolve this issue and its decision does not retain the entry into force of a law which, for example, the opposition contests. Worse than that, if he gets to make a decision, then later the Constitutional Court can't resolve it again. As regards the very list of candidates, it should be mentioned that the condition to choose prominent lawyers with at least 15 years of legal profession and 40 years of life and that it is also very arbitrarily defined in the Constitution itself, so it is not enough to be proposed by the parties or by the President of the Republic, since ten out of 15 are elected, or named, is not enough to be proposed by the parties and to wear the uniform of the Constitutional Judge. It is very important that each of these proposed candidates has the authority, that there is an unquestionable assessment, let's say, when you read that biography, that it is someone who has really been engaged in the protection of human and minority rights, that it is someone who has actually made a great contribution to the protection of the law in the Constitution of this country, through the publication of scientific works, books and so on. They're very diverse biographies that we've been presented here. For example, this condition for 15 years of legal experience cannot be, I don't want to underestimate anyone, but you can't compare some of the referents who have spent most of their working life as legal advisors or in some of the agencies for the traffic of immovableity or the lawyer in the police administration with some candidates who have really invested their knowledge and who have worked really to raise awareness about the need for respect of the law in this country. So it can be said that only two, three biographies meet this criterion, while all other biographies are unfortunately very thin and I don't see that those persons can have the credibility to put themselves above the ruling party in situations where they should or should, because they would be expected to do so and instead resort to silence and avoidance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9951	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9952	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. The truth works, and I said that there are times when something must be done, especially in situations where you are killed by the prime minister, but I must say, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, that when a decision on emergency is made, it reads – it declares a state of emergency in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The territory of the Republic of Serbia also covered the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, although not implemented, I can admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9953	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. We continue to work. National MP Marko Djurisic is not present. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Ferhatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9954	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the proposings, my presentation will be directed towards the candidates of the Constitutional Court who are elected for nine years. This judicial authority with extremely large areas of conservation of the Constitution and law, and in cases of decision-making by appeal to decisions by state authorities, is one of the most important items in which citizens can seek the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of this State. That's why the choice of judges of this court is very important for our society in general. My suggestion is somewhat co-existing with questions raised by previous speakers, saying the vast majority of candidates are concentrated in Belgrade, neglecting the rest of the Republic. The bigger problem is that almost all candidates are members of the majority people, that the proposal does not maintain a picture of the reality of the Serbian society in which other peoples live and according to the Constitution – Bosniaks, Albanians, Hungarians, Slovaks and others. As an MP elected by the majority of Bosniak votes, it is my duty to express dissatisfaction with the fact that there are no members of my people among the proposed candidates. This is not the best message for Bosniaks who often seek their rights right in front of this instance, especially from the area of protection of collective and individual national rights. If there were at least one representative of the Bosniak people among the candidates, it would be an important shift and a good step in restoring the Bosniak's trust in the country's judicial authorities. The return of the Bosniak's trust in the institutions of the state is an important prerequisite for the reconciliation policy we advocate. Such a proposal would also make an argument to those who, when and when they have no right, condemn judicial bodies for bias and national discrimination, as can be heard today by individual representatives of Bosniaks, who do so most often with the aim of campaigning for the upcoming elections and only when they are not part of the ruling majority. So it is a very delicate issue, and therefore the Bosniak Democratic Community of Sandzak insists on the equal representation of Bosniaks and other minority peoples in all state institutions, especially the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, the military and the state administration. The Bosniaks, unfortunately, are not represented in all these institutions to the extent that the Constitution guarantees them. It would therefore be important to start the selection process and to set up those positions for which real competences are held, the necessary references. I'm sure among the Bosniak people, like other minority nations, there are such candidates. On the other hand, for the Constitutional Court judge, Deputy Public Prosecutor in Novi Pazar Radisav Filmonovic was proposed. Mr. Filimonovic is known in Novi Pazar as a fairly fair and correct man, especially during the 1990s, when this multiethnic environment was under the terror of police, judiciary and prosecution. That is why, when no Bosniak has already been proposed, it is a good thing that at least Mr. Filimonović, who knows the sensitivity of the multiethnic environment, is a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. We believe that if elected, this position will have the hearing that the needs of its citizens of Bosniak nationality. In the end, Bosniak Democratic Community MPs Sandzak will support those candidates who will be convinced they have the best references, competences and moral credibility, hoping to be members of the Bosniak people during the new election of judges and other personnel in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9955	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Comrade Miletic, you have exactly 39 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9956	Thank you. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. It is the municipality of Svrljig, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'll support all these suggestions. I think this was done right. Proposers have given their opinions both to the president of Serbia and the Assembly and I think we will choose the best. I'd like to be one of those Nish promoters, and I'm sure in the coming period we'll have a much better judiciary, a much better judge than it was in 2009, and in that period we remember what's worse. Once again, I will support the proposals proposed by our proposings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9957	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not there. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a very important topic we're talking about today. What's not good, of course, and I'm joining all those colleagues who have already talked about it, it's not a good thing we're talking about in a minute to 12, and what if we don't make this decision today, the Constitutional Court can be in a blockade. They talked about the procedure, they also said that the opposition had the opportunity to propose its candidates to see as good candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. In our parliamentary group, we did not do this, not because we do not care about who will be the judge of the Constitutional Court, but for one reason I think that all citizens, who follow the session of this Assembly, are very clear and understandable, and that is very obvious that there is one very negative relationship to all the proposals coming from the opposition, especially on this side of the hall in our parliament. We felt that any candidate we would suggest would probably be exposed to one very negative, not an argumentable attack and treatment in this assembly, and that's why we didn't do it. With great care, we considered the proposals, both the President of the Republic and all the candidates who came from the National Assembly. You see, we're talking a lot here today about whether these proposals of the judge, the candidate for the Constitutional Court, are political, are there political influences. It is very difficult to think that there is no really political influence in selecting these candidates and that it will be the main political argument in that final decision to be made. If we look at the annual progress report published by the European Commission less than a month ago, it is precisely political influence, so the influence of the political authorities, the executive authorities, the government, etc., what is most criticised when the situation in our judiciary is analysed and the possibility of citizens actually having confidence in what the judiciary is doing. That is exactly what the European Commission says. What we need in the next period to be a priority is for judicial independence to be achieved, to be achieved in practice. The Constitutional Court is very important for the citizens of Serbia, for all of us as citizens of this country. The constitutional appeal gives one right to exercise their rights in a specific way, whenever they feel that their rights have not been fulfilled. However, the Constitutional Court, in its own practice, has very much denied some of its decisions the trust citizens should have in the Constitutional Court and the constitutional appeal. One of the examples mentioned by some of my predecessors in today's debate... It is the Constitutional Court's decision not to consider the constitutionality of the Pension Reduction Act. In doing so, the Constitutional Court even called for the Retirement Act to be a temporary measure, and we know that it is not a temporary measure and that the final provisions of the Retirement Act have been said that pensions will not return to the previous level. A great storm of dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction has sparked the Constitutional Court's decision. Was there also political influence, since many top experts in our legal science and practice said there was no basis for such a decision by the Constitutional Court. When we talk about criteria that are important for the choice of judges at all, and also for the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, it is very important that we strike some balance between the different requirements put before the judge. It's certain that, of course, he must be a highly educated expert man or woman, but no less important thing is, besides being founded somewhere in science, which is good, but it's not enough... If I can share with you, exactly one, the experience of working in the Committee for the Selection of Judges for the International European Court of Human Rights, whenever someone is very strong in science, the question is whether they can actually make decisions. The ability to make decisions is also a very important criterion when we talk about what kind of judges we should choose. What is of course very important, not to be fooled, there is often a delusion that two lawyers are always the same in their knowledge. Even if, 15 years of experience in the profession, it's identical. Every 15 years in the legal profession, they're the same. No, they're not. Very much depends on what anyone really did in the profession, on which jobs, which degree of freedom, independence, had, etc. We're at the scene of integrity. And when we talk about integrity, we kind of see it as a formula, like a fairy tale. Apparently, he has integrity moral, professional, etc. What's fundamental integrity? Integrity is the ability to resist pressure. Now, from that point on, we need to look at this list of candidates that we're proposing. How much each candidate carries with him the weight to resist the pressure of the Prime Minister, the Government, the President of the State, Parliament or any other individual or group in this country, and to make an independent decision based on knowledge and understanding of the legal order. That is why it is very important, of course, that the common culture, but also the general power, is therefore extremely important to be people of great reputation who will develop the sense that they can trust this judiciary and that, of course, justice is within reach. The Constitutional Court is very important because it corrects our mistakes. I would like to point out exactly one of the final decisions of the Constitutional Court, of November of this year, when the Constitutional Court evaluated the constitutionality of the Labour Act. He has just announced an unconstitutional one provision of the Labour Act, which the majority, or the like majority, have brought, which is Article 179 paragraph 5, which provides that the employer may fire his employee whenever he considers his employer to be the act of committing a crime committed at work and in connection with work, regardless of whether a criminal offence has been committed against the employee. This is one such flagrant violation of the Constitution, which they pointed to in the process of making amendments and additions to the Labour and Trade Act, even employers, and civil society and many experts, but this majority did not want to hear it. I'm showing here, on this case exactly how important the role of the Constitutional Court can be and how important it is to have independence and independence. Here when we talk about these candidates, my predecessor said there are three to four candidates, or one of the predecessors, who actually meet the conditions. It may be very difficult, now to speak ad persona, but what is terribly important, is that we are always considering how we will reduce political influence, how we will choose people who are able to resist political pressure on making a certain judicial decision, and how they will indeed contribute to the foundation and rooted understanding of the rule of law and respect for human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9959	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. He's not there. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Court is the most important, should be one of the most important bodies in every country, including Serbia. It should be independent and independent in its work, but unfortunately in Serbia, the Constitutional Court, at least three times, has shown that the instrument is in the hands of ruling coalitions, which is certainly not good, and which is not in line with the Constitution of the RS, which obliges us to all respect the Constitutional Court decisions, which in some cases is not possible. Which are three of the most recent cases where the Constitutional Court was neither independent nor independent. The first case took place in 2010, when the Constitutional Court discussed the blank resignations, which are possible on the basis of Article 102. The RS Constitution, which had been applied until then. At that time, the ruling coalition, Boris Tadic and his, proposed amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs and while we had so-called. The public listening in that small hall, there was a miracle unseen, in the middle of that debate, ran Gordana Komic and showed us this way – here is the decision of the Constitutional Court. Before it was published in "The Official Messenger", she made the decision, where the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutional provision of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was in accordance with Article 102. The constitution and which allowed MPs to entrust their mandates to foreigners whose lists they were selected from. That was the time, to remind us when Boris Tadic and Miki Rakic were building an Advanced Party, and when all the state authorities were in the service of the job. Another case when the Constitutional Court showed that it was neither independent nor independent, referred to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Brussels Agreements. The Brussels agreements threatened the territorial integrity of the Serbian state and the Constitutional Court must not have declared these agreements political acts, but had to be declared legal and annulled. We remind ourselves that, after the first Brussels Agreement, we have filed a criminal report to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, against all those who contributed to various decisions before the Brussels Agreement and later those who adopted it, signed the Brussels Agreement that in Kosovo and Metohija, in fact, there are no more state authorities of the state of Serbia. That criminal record stands, probably, at Zagorka Dolovac's, which is why she's the prosecutor for all systems. It is a criminal complaint against Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Mirko Cvetkovic, and others who made decisions on the basis of which the false state of Kosovo also received the Constitutional Court, and the Supreme Court, and the registration plates, and ID cards, and the border crossing, and also against Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, Ivica Dacic, who signed all of this, and more than that, these Brussels agreements. The third case when the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia showed that it was not acting in accordance with the Constitution, was when they decided on the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions were paid. I think the decision, which the Constitutional Court then made, is something that, I guess, has never been seen, we sincerely hope it won't be. At that time, the Constitutional Court said that there was no basis for the initiation of a procedure to determine the unconstitutional nature of this Act, or certain provisions thereof, because the law introduced intervention measures because of the economic crisis. The Constitutional Court, I guess, is not taking care of the economic crisis, but the constitutional order. The Constitutional Court also then said it would not decide on an initiative to determine the constitutionality of this law, because it is a law of temporary character. Imagine if someone remembered to pass the law and arm it for two months and said they were allowed to kill people. And then the Constitutional Court will say since this is a law of temporary character, we won't decide on it. The worst part is, the pension law was extended the other day by the Budget Law and 2017. In these poor decisions, unconstitutional decisions, the judges of the Constitutional Court who were mainly proposed to perform this function in the future were involved. One of them is the current President of the Court, Vesna Ilic Prelic, who is known among other things and has not submitted a report on the Constitutional Court's work for 2014, neither for 2015. It's absolutely inadmissible and not in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act, inadmissible for someone who's the President of the Constitutional Court. About whether, as adviser to Jokic, she received another apartment, besides the one she had, how she bought them, etc., it is likely that some other authorities will, and we will not deal with it in such a politically serious situation. But we didn't understand why none of the proposings proposed that Professor Oliver Vukic and Dragan Stojanovic be re-judgmental judges of the Constitutional Court, and they were in addition to Bosa Nenadic who could not be proposed because she had obtained a condition for retirement, and by the Constitution, they very much advocated that the Brussels agreements were declared unconstitutional. But, well, unfortunately, they didn't make it. In these proposals that we have received from these two proposings, from the National Assembly and from the President of the Republic, there are indeed several names that deserve every respect and we Serbian radicals hope that thanks to this very, we hope that they will be chosen, Professor Milan Škulić, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and the Director of the Institute for Comparative Law of Dr. Jovan Ciric, that the Constitutional Court will no longer make the mistake he has made so far, because they are people who can neither be partyized nor when they have committed themselves in any way in their public statements and in their works, the scientific works that they have behind them. They have not sinned in any way on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor on any patriotic standard that should adorn all the judges of the Constitutional Court, which, unfortunately, will continue to be, and those you have proposed, will not be possible. One of the main problems is the one we have already talked about, that none of the motions has proposed a member, a judge, to the Constitutional Court, a member from Kosovo and Metohija. It's really something that's inadmissible and somehow goes along with these Brussels agreements. If you've allowed, gentlemen, a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo in Kosovo and Metohija, to have some constitutional court, you've at least had to propose to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We Serbian radicals will vote for those candidates who we are confident deserve our vote and who we are confident will behave in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, those who do not deserve it will not get our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9961	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9962	Thank you. Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have before us proposals for judges who are first elected as judges, as well as a proposal for candidates for the Constitutional Court's election. I must agree with colleague Verica Radet, who said that the Constitutional Court is the most important, important court in our country, unlike some MPs who today said that the Constitutional Court should be abolished. I was simply amazed, so I commented with colleagues how they would do it and abolish a Constitutional Court whose existence was prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As far as professional references are concerned. It is clear to all of us that all proposed candidates meet the intended conditions for selecting the judge, both the basics and the Constitutional Court. What my colleague Nedja said - discrediting certain candidates, I find it really embarrassing, especially from those who have not passed the Law School, nor do they know what constitutional law is, not criminally, not administratively, any other branch of law. We also heard comments relating to the fact that the Constitutional Court will be in a blockade from today, and no blockage was mentioned in 2008, when, then the ruling majority of 2008, could not pass the 2002 Constitutional Court or Blockation Act when DOS candidates, or DOS MPs, could not agree on candidates. It is also terrible that some MPs, especially former ministers sitting in benches today, apply a double-arshin policy. I think it's purely political dilettism. When we talk about human resources, we always have that bitter taste, if we remember the 2010 judicial reform. The reform at the time was even called "operation 700" and said when nearly 700 judges and prosecutors were left without permanent office by the scandalous judicial process, which was returned to work by the same Constitutional Court. Then these same MPs, former ministers, come to talk about the situation in the Serbian judiciary. They should be ashamed. At least they're embarrassed. She didn't have to, she didn't have any knowledge. Seven hundred judges and prosecutors are out of work, no permanent judicial office, and we stand for an independent and independent court. They stayed because they didn't have party books. Because the former ministers, the current MPs, sat in the pubs and determined who was like him, who wasn't like him. There were no criteria, and now the state of Serbia needs to pay the damages. Then we're talking about slowing down the work of the judiciary, how many judges we have, how many unsolved cases. Let's remind ourselves of how it was done then and what you did, how you literally buried the Serbian judiciary. Also, we've heard criticisms from individual decisions of the Constitutional Court. Whether we like them or not, I may not like some as a lawyer and a lawyer, but you're calling yourself to an independent and independent judiciary. The Constitutional Court is independent and independent. The way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected is prescribed in Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you all swore when you signed your oath as MPs. The Constitutional Court's decisions are final, executed and binding, whether we like them or not. This is a kind of pressure I've heard today, criticism of certain decisions of the Constitutional Court. I may not like it either, but it's a direct influence on the judges, and let's not forget that, the judges you chose in 2007 on the proposal of the then president of the state. At the time, there was no seeming political likeness or incomparableness. I believe that all the proposed candidates are professional, I hope that they will be selected most professionally because they are all graduate lawyers, all have wide-ranging work experience in the practice of the judiciary. Whether he's a professor of constitutional or criminal law, I don't think it's worth discussing. The provisions of the Constitution themselves have provisions on human and minority rights which include those provisions which apply in criminal law, but some MPs cannot know that because they have never read the appearances of the Constitution, not constitutional or criminal law. So, I ask some MPs to educate themselves when they talk about this subject. The Serbian Progressive Party will support candidates who are proposed in the voting day, especially those candidates who are first elected to the judge's office and I believe that as many such candidates as possible should be proposed to us and that we need as many judges as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9963	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9964	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Listening to today's discussions, I heard that the top of the Serbian judiciary's pyramid is the Constitutional Court. I also heard the explanation that the judges elected by the Constitutional Court must be distinguished lawyers, and that one of the key factors that determines them is dignity. That is why I will comment on the proposals made by the president of the state, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and his candidates who he is running for judges in the Constitutional Court. Of the eight candidates that the president has run for office, two candidates have indirect or direct ties to the biggest affair in the Serbian judicial system, the famous Index affair. I'm not going to comment on the candidate's professional characteristics, because I'm not a lawyer, and I've seen biographies and I have no reason to doubt them, but these relationships that I'm about to tell you now will question what I just heard as dignity. No matter what I don't like to talk about people's names when I'm discussing it, it's impossible for me not to mention the number of people I want to discuss right now. So it's about Mr. Jovan Ciric and Mrs. Snezani Markovic. Mr. Jovan Ciric is the director of the Institute for Comparative Law, where the second accused in the Index affair, Mrs. Dragana Petrovic, was elected in the title of a scientific associate. We'll all remember the footage when the police investigator, Mr. Spasic, in that video, gives the money Mrs. Dragana Petrovic receives. Then, according to the indictment in the Index affair, Mrs Petrovic received 7,900 euros, 2,750 German marks, a BMW car, a 320D type and a unique gold bracelet. What is it and whether Mr. Ciric took it so that she would not then be admitted to the place where she was admitted, which is during his conduct to the Institute of Comparative Law, is a question that I would like to receive an answer. As for the other candidate, Mrs. Snezana Markovic, I will not mind that she is also a cousin of President Nikolic and what the president has suggested to his cousin, nor will I mind that her husband is second indictee in the Index affair, because she has professional qualities, but I will mind that on the 22nd side of the indictment in the Index affair, you will allow me to quote, stands next, and this is the case of Prof. St. Purić: "On 18.04.2005, St. Puric wrote to the student's index Natalija Sekulić from Belgrade, who allegedly promised to receive a positive assessment from the defendant Puric and without passing the exams from economic policy, so he told her to go to the defendant on the day of the exam and tell him whose recommendation came, which she did, so on 18.04.2005, she went to the cabinet, to which she was told by professor. Puric said – give me the index, which Natalija did, gave him her index number 04-521, in which, on 18.04, the defendant Puric on page 87 wrote a score of 6 etc., etc." So these two facts that I presented and the situation that the affair “Index” from that time to today is not resolved, seriously throwing me a negative light on what I was listening about earlier from respected colleagues. So, as an MP for the Serbian Dvora movement, I cannot support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9965	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The way we talk today about the election of Serbian Constitutional Court judges is the way we should be worried. Non-recognition of the importance of this subject, non-recognition of the importance of the Constitutional Court is something that characterizes this debate. The very fact that we have a united debate today on the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, on the one hand, on the choice of judges who are first elected to office, on personal requests for resolution, is something that absolutely discourages us. At the last minute, that's what my colleagues were saying, today comes on the agenda. If we hadn't scheduled this today on the last day of the deadline, the Constitutional Court would have been in lockdown. The personal request for a judge's discharge, which is on the agenda today, is waiting for more than six months. It is not just a decision on some personal right of the judge who has sought for personal reasons, the reason to resolve is the issue of the efficiency of the judiciary, the efficiency of the exercise of the rights of citizens to justice in the court from which it comes. This SNS game today about who is the author of the Constitutional Court Judges' proposal is something that does not only undermine the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, but dignity and this whole subject. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and I honestly believe that it is a much less important subject than this subject, they should be guardians of the Constitution, guardians of the legality of every regulation, of every act. They should be guardians of the protection of human and minority rights, and I really think there are few topics that are more important than this topic. Unfortunately, the attention that is given to this issue and the discussions that follow, and the worst policy that follows this discussion, say that we do not, in essence, understand the importance of the Constitutional Court and their need and role in society. In that context, I'm going to look back very briefly in four segments when we talk about the meaning of this. First of all, the motions for the judge himself. That's what my fellow MPs have been saying all day, the way that they happened, the way we talk about them today, the way that we don't have authorized proposings who, if they don't talk about personal solutions, their proposals, if they don't talk about biographies and what they're running for members of the Constitutional Court, then I really don't think as a responsible MP of the people that I'm going to get into personal solutions. They are not irrelevant, on the contrary, I think that the subject and interest of every citizen and citizen is to know who the judges of the Constitutional Court are, who are these people who are the guardians of our constitutional order, the guardians of legality, the guardians, if you will, and all of our human rights that they should guard. We have not even heard today how the list proposed by the President of the National Assembly has been made available to us today to decide and refer to the President of the Republic. We haven't heard of any more candidates than the ten we're talking about today. If so, who decided to come to our agenda today, by what criteria, are they clear, what influences and what pressures were that we had? On the other hand, we didn't even hear how the proposal came about by the president of Serbia. The authorised representatives, the authorized promoters who brought us this list, have no word but for the biography of candidates, which I really don't want to mention, that we've got here. The work of the Constitutional Court so far, I think, deserves special attention and it's very important that we look back on that. What marks behavior, if I can put it this way, of the Constitutional Court in the past few years, is, on the one hand, when it makes a decision, these decisions cause a heated public reaction. The second, perhaps even more dangerous, is the inadmissible silence of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, which is declared incompetent when we seek, when citizens, when NGOs, when political parties, which are not only political entities, we are the voice of citizens who have made us ask some questions in their own voice, if they find themselves incompetent to question the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of interstate agreements, e.g. with the United Arab Emirates, which are suspended directly by domestic laws, on the one hand, if they do not respond and have an obligation even under official duty to react if they consider that the legality of any act is compromised, that silence is unacceptable to any authority, particularly the judicial one, and especially to that highest independent state body such as the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, the pension cuts, that's what my colleagues and colleagues were saying today, I think the least said is a very controversial decision of the Constitutional Court. They directly said that what has been acquired is the property of every citizen and citizen who has worked hard and that the decision is illegal under deep conviction does not constitute a violation of the Constitution. These are completely legitimate topics for today's debate. The third thing, that's what happened today in the debate, which I don't think apriors are bad, and that's the need to talk about future constitutional changes. I'm sorry that a subject like the Constitutional Court's choice of judges is used for such a thing, because it's a subject much wider than something like this, but even today in the discussion, we have had the opportunity to hear that they are not good criteria for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, that it is not necessary that they are just prominent lawyers, but that it takes something more, that they need to be professors of constitutional law at law school, that they need to come from the judiciary. These are all legitimate attitudes that are not the place to talk about them today, because this topic is much more important and it is one of the segments that we should all talk about together when we talk about changing the Constitution. The selection criteria are also the question of re-election. Is one term of the Constitutional Court judge, who, I remind us, is all together, nine years, or maybe we should abolish the right to re-election, to fully ensure that any possibility of political influence when the judge slowly stands out for the first term and hopes for another, and we leave this way of choice in which politics has great influence. Maybe it doesn't leave enough room for objectivity and judgment under the Constitution and the law. The most important problems in the judiciary, just a few, in the shortest sense, I spoke very closely about when only a month ago, if I am not mistaken, talked about the election and the judges and the deputy public prosecutors, what we are not saying, that is what citizens suffer every day, that is what the European Commission warns us about in the repeated annual progress reports. They remind us of a few things, it's the context of our problems regarding the judiciary, if you will, and the Constitutional Court, which remains silent on a large number of things. The Constitutional Court is silent on the public commentation of the verdict, the Constitutional Court is silent on the leak of information from the arrest investigation, the Constitutional Court is silent on the violation of presummation of innocence, which, I remind you, is a constitutional category, that everyone is innocent until in criminal proceedings a judicial verdict is proven otherwise. These are problems that primarily burden our judiciary, in addition to what counterpart Petrovic said about having twice as many unsolved cases in 2015 than solved cases, this burden of the judiciary, which is a much bigger problem than the judiciary itself for our citizens because the slowness of reaching justice and their something that burdens us all together. In the end, with respect for time, I want, despite everything, no matter what the full certainty of this election, these candidates do not have our support because of the way it happened, due to unclear criteria, due to vague reasoning. But regardless, I hope and recommend that they be stronger than any pressure, that they judge by the Constitution and the law and be the guardian of what is most important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9967	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. The word has been made by MP Milos Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9968	Dear People's MPs, honourable citizens, I would like to refer to the choice of the president of the courts and judges who are first elected to that title. So we get, just to explain the procedure to the citizens, the VSS chooses certain candidates, to make a list of people who will be appointed to the presidential courts to be presidents and also to make such a list for judges who are first elected to the post. That list is being delivered to us here in the Assembly, the VSS needs to explain it, and we need that solution to confirm our vote, of course, and through this discussion. There's a problem with this approach now because the VSS has provided us with a list of candidates, we've got biographies, we've got in short what they've been dealing with so far, and we've gotten a picture of whether they're good or not, but we're missing another piece of information, and these are candidates that haven't passed. This is very important, so that we can give a valid court of law whether these candidates chosen on this list are the right choice and whether they are really better than those who have not passed. Now that we're thinking about it, I can find an analogy in the business that I'm dealing with, which is the IT sector. Now I'm thinking, say, about Google when we're looking for something that we're interested in, and we need to find some results. Now I, for example, can go to Google and type in some keywords based on which I would like to find some articles or something, I can type in "false diplomas" or "destroying in Savala" or "a helicopter affair", though, I won't get answers, I'll get results. But I'm going to get sorting results, and I'm going to get, say, a thousand results, and probably in the first five to ten, they're going to be the most relevant ones, but that doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to be the best results, or maybe that Google is something wrong, and I'm left with the option of choosing another article that might be somewhere else, or there's a possibility that there's a mistake, that the choice isn't the best. We're just getting here right now to the VSS, which leaves us no option at all to see if it's a good choice. It's like if Google brought back only one result, claiming there's no one else and everyone else is wrong. That's why we can't actually tell if this choice was good, because we're missing these other candidates so we can compare it. If they were here on that list, we could ask valid VSS questions, ask why they chose this candidate, and not the one, let's see the score, they could really defend their position that they had here, and we might say, okay, everything was fine, the selection process was right, and we don't have any objections. This way we can't give our judgment. Honestly, then I wonder what our function here as MPs is, specifically in this process, why we should vote for the candidate list, when we can't actually bring a valid court, because the court has already been brought. The only thing we can get from the VSS is -- trust us on the word, we must have chosen the right candidates. Although they're probably honest people, I'd still like to see other candidates so I can be 100% personally sure that's a good choice. Given that, so, given that we don't have enough information, we can't make a good court and process, and therefore, it's not transparent enough and it's not public enough and we can't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9969	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9970	Since you've put a few topics in this debate that differ significantly, I'd like to take some turns. There were few speeches about these changes in the working bodies of the National Assembly. I think that today we can realize that, as far as these changes are concerned, a great success for parliamentaryism will be if these people can work on committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which applies in the National Assembly, without being able to work in the way that the Management Board's session was 15 days ago. Mr. Milicevic, we really thank you very much. What would this congregation look like if you chaired in the same way as the chairmanship of the Management Board? I want these people who are entering a new system of happiness, success, to make sure when they report for word that they do not come into great conflict with the Rules of Procedure. As for the judges and the president of the courts, you know, from the major changes to the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly was granted the exclusive right to elect trainees and presidents of the courts, and everything between them is in the jurisdiction of the VSS, and the Constitutional Court said the VSS should not name any jurisdiction, so two or three months ago the Constitutional Court announced that certain provisions of some laws, two laws, were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then you keep asking the question -- how do you do it, what do you do it, what do you do it by? Time will show it, and every time there's a wrinkle of discussion, more points within a time, make sure it's only done because you don't hear something that doesn't fit some. Speaking of these Constitutional Court judges, there has been a really big change since 2007 and 2010. Those who voted "yes" in 2007 and 2010 are now "against" and part of those who were "against" in 2007 and 2010 are now "yes" and both are leading Serbia towards the European Union. Some say the EU is an opposition, while others say the EU is the government. And that's the change. There are no other changes. As for me personally, all those who were judges of the Constitutional Court should no longer be judges of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because they didn't do a good job. I have to draw attention to you, the constitutional judiciary is not in the system of justice, and based on the experience we have in the current work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the worst proved itself, as judges, just the judges of the Constitutional Court, precisely those who came from the judiciary. Why? There are several reasons. The main reason is that they are not qualified for this trial and they take much more care of facts and procedural parts, and in the Constitutional Court they need to assess the constitutionality of laws and other general acts, they need to know a little more about other things. This Constitutional Court, the judges, deserve first and foremost the punishment of the National Assembly. Why? Well, here's a picture of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia not being able to interpret Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads - the MP is free to, under certain laws, unrelentingly place their mandate at the disposal of the political party, whose proposal was elected as a MP. You see, there's a very simple and simple provision they didn't know how to apply and they showed some other abilities to play it all, first they did an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Local Elections, and then they came to some interpretations of the Law on the selection of MPs. Just to remind you that it was very simple, because when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 2006 there was an objection that the referendum was falsified, that there were some anti-civil provisions. I remember Cedomir Jovanovic and others, and then the European Commission sent its Venice Commission to shake the complete constitution and when they came to Article 102, they held a conversation with three key figures in the Republic of Serbia, with Kostunica, Tadic and at the time Nikolic and they said in their report that they had been assured that the provision must exist because of Bogoljub Karic, who steals the mandates. And it does not lie to the devil, after a year and a half, Boris Tadic and Miki Rakic, with great opposition from a large number of DS members, have made one political party here. What else is interesting? During all the changes in the judicial system, the biggest critics of these changes were SRS MPs, others were mostly silent. Let's just remind ourselves, they didn't care about anyone. Constitutionally, the judicial reform later failed. Why is it not necessary for people who have already been judges of the Constitutional Court to put more on the list, to even think about them being judges, to take the Brussels Agreement, to refuse, they say – it is a political act, which does not oblige anyone and no one has an obligation to act on it. And just as they said, a delegation from the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Brussels Agreement, travelled to Brussels to negotiate, and then some regulations and some sublegal acts, which explain that they are calling for the Brussels Agreement. I remember one threat to judges – only you say it is unconstitutional, and then you judges go and ensure that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia function in the territory of KIM. Interesting thing, a month ago, a ratified Fund for the Western Balkans was set up here, as an international act, and again it appeared with a fus note, or star. And no one ever thinks about starting a trial before the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has been embarrassed, completely embarrassed. He selectively and finds some way to make a decision in accordance with the Constitution, but our people say, "And, a blind chick finds a grain." Here, a few days ago, they made a decision and found that points 9 and 10 of the guidelines for the implementation of elections in Kosovo and Metohija, 2014 are illegal provisions. And it's a characteristic of our Constitutional Court that the post-festum works. I'll take an example. We have initiated a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Remember, you've done a lot of things here against the SRS, because it's supposed to have taken off some shoes. The Constitutional Court said shoes rightly flew towards Gordana Comic and Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. No one apologized to Serbian radicals for those shoes. Similarly, the Law on Trusting in Jobs or Jurisdiction does not matter at this point that the real name of the law is also viewed as unconstitutional in the predominantly part. But they're tiny grains, they're not even properties that suggest spring. When we look at these names with all due respect to the individual exceptions that the president of the SRS was talking about, I conclude there are other problems. The first and basic problem I could draw your attention to is, since our Constitutional Court is three-part in the election, how it's possible that some judges can't get past those five candidates elected by the Supreme Casation Court, they've all gotten away with it, what do I do, that kind of luck beats me, well, this one doesn't take drugs unlike the last time. Now, you see, if one judge can't get past his fellow judges for the Constitutional Court, with which someone else's right suggests him from these two, whether the National Assembly, whether the President of the Republic. Well, the point of the Constitutional Court is that people with life experience, 40 years, with some practice of 15 years in the legal profession, with some reputation as lawyers, protect constitutionality from the National Assembly and from all those who adopt regulations and general legal acts. Imagine the paradoxical situation that exists with the judge of the Constitutional Court. They will be very happy to appreciate the constitutionality and legality of any general act by any political party, but they will not catch in the hands of either the Brussels Agreement or all the cancer of the wounds for territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Then there's no wonder for such humble suggestions. A man suggests a relative, and then a woman is proposed that our ATP Maja Vojvodina Republic wouldn't be responsible for some of the things that happened, and that's all the rewards. The rewards for silence in the future. The rewards for some of the works they've done, and of course it's all followed by a good apparition, so you can judge for yourself what that pay is. So these candidates will go the way most people decide. Of these eight proposed by the President of the Republic, four will pass, decided by the majority. Of the ten candidates on the list they have made, those re-elected by the President of the Republic who made this majority will pass. Then you really ask the question, and what could be decisive and crucial is that you propose a brilliant candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, unless he has a majority. You see, in that sense, Americans are far more honest. Their Supreme Court has seven judges, right now it's six, three are Democrats, three are Republicans. The future president of the Republic depends on which of them will have a majority. And everybody knows that in America, only in Serbia are majority personnel professional, respected, respected, with reference etc. If it wasn't for these agenda points, half these candidates would never even know that they are extremely respected and professional. We in this discussion inform them that they are extremely professional. You can imagine what that loss will be like for the notaries, for the perpetrators, for the academy, for the public prosecutor's office, if Mrs. Markovic, by any chance, is elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. Well, it's an irreparable loss for the prosecution in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think the prosecution will recover after that election. He's gonna be kneeling for another 20 years. Or not to talk about these other candidates in very important places. I think when the official messenger gets elected, the official messenger won't leave at all for 15 days. It's such a loss, it's such a potential. They're such candidates. It is not recommended for them to go with open arms and shake, because only standards are democratically coming out of the sleeves. We told you, if you go to the vote, for a few candidates we'll vote in respect of these people and for everything they've done within the legal profession, but we recommended that you return this list of ten to do so, and that something is wrong with those lists, so here, just to remind you, no matter what these are big books, as someone who deals with books said, but this great book of the President of the Republic is consistent with the weight of his degree, it has an explanation, it's one sentence. It is said this way – I think, hey, imagine, he believes that the proposed candidates possess professional and personal qualities to perform the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. And this over here, that's all the candidates wrote about themselves. It's that high-minded sentence that the Constitution doesn't require a diploma for, but he has to have a degree. Why should he differ from Lulet's graduate, as he stands in that court verdict, he says – and then he gave him a degree in the year n.n. from Nis called Lula. Now, this diplomat is the chairman of the Committee on Secret Service Control at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9971	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9972	Thank you. Since I've heard things here, I must first express one great pleasure if, as we've heard here, Boris Tadic has made SNS. I'm glad he made such a dramatic mistake, so we beat him. It's nice to keep making mistakes like that. I also believe that this new candidate he brought in, if he is unfulfilled in his international ambitions at the UN, I believe that he will be mistaken and will certainly lose in the elections again. Anyway, I understand other complexes that can't get over the fact that someone else won, and they're not, but well, that's their problem. Anyway, as far as the proposed judges of the Constitutional Court are concerned, one thing is good when you are a member of the Parliament, and that you own your mandate, although I am personally against it, I am more in favour of the parties having a mandate. But there's one good thing, and that's that you can vote individually any way you want. At least for three candidates on this list, I won't vote, there's no way I'm voting. I'll tell you who they are. These are: Tamas Korhec, Tatjana Babic and Dusan Ignatovic. I wouldn't vote for them alive. It's my right, I can refrain from voting, I can press the red one. But that's why it may not be bad when the MP owns the mandate, he can decide individually how he will vote. Speaking of these various sermons to the so far work of the Constitutional Court judges, otherwise, there really must be great lawyers, the best lawyers. I have to admit, I'm glad, for a long time, a respected professor of law school, here's how long this term has been, Olivera Vukic was judge of the Constitutional Court. We heard here suggestions that the Constitutional Court should be abolished. One parliamentary group has tabled the proposal to abolish the Constitutional Court. We can also talk about it, but, you know, the human rights corps that spreads every day is just so big that you can't normally do more without the Constitutional Court and transfer it to discuss human rights in the state in the department of some supreme court, it'd be a little lame, we'll agree, since it's such sensitive matter. But I understand here some, who suggested here, my colleague Marian Risticevic was wrong. We haven't had just sixteen months of lack of constitutional court. I think it was a lot more than that, I think it was two, three years. But here, let's make it sixteen months. Do you know why it's scary? For example, during the Sabela action, we had an amazing situation that someone could arrest you at the time that you had no right to even a lawyer, and that was happening. Who could you complain to? No one. There was no institution where you could exercise your right. They shut down the media, no medium could protect itself, or complain somewhere. There was no institution to protect your rights. Now, they're talking about how the Constitutional Court should be to us, and they didn't even have one. They could have liquidated if they wanted to go out on the street, 'cause that's how they could've done it. By the way, it's a little amazing for me that they're complaining today about what kind of judges are choosing. They didn't have anything. And I can agree that maybe we should have a debate about how the general judges are elected, not only the Constitutional Court, this constitution says this is how they have to be chosen, but generally, we can talk about whether parliament should choose judges. It's all subject to discussion, but let's not talk about what's meant by the law, and also by the Constitution, first of all, let's not tell empty stories now, but let's do the job right. Are the candidates good? I think they are, most of them, but yet everyone has the right of MPs to define who they will vote for. We also heard sermons about the Brussels Agreement. The Brussels Agreement, at least as we interpret as a state, is not an international act. It's an internal act in the state. So, we do not want to argue that Kosovo is an international recognition of the subject, but we consider it an autonomous province. So, any act that arises in Kosovo that is adopted in accordance with the Brussels Agreement is an act of the province of Kosovo, which may one day return to our custody completely, but we will always interpret it that way. Let's not think it's some international act. Just because the Moderator was an EU doesn't mean anything. We consider it our internal legislation. As far as the mandate is concerned, it is correct to quote that Article 102. The constitution that he is a National MP, but it is very important that this word is free to give his mandate to the party, therefore, free to be very widely interpreted. I honestly don't like that it was such an inaccurate norm, but then we all agreed that the Constitution was good and in the referendum we supported it. Is that supposed to change? Sure, yeah, but that's how it is now. The Constitutional Court has brought an interpretation of what he has brought. He could've brought a different one, but most of them were like this. So I understand sometimes political stories and political conversations. But the court decisions are stupid to interpret, they are what they are. It's even impossible to interpret. Simply, the court's decision is the court's decision. So, of course, in the voting day and how well I'm going to think about which one of these candidates I'm going to give my support to, but here, at least I told these three that I certainly won't. Otherwise, I hope that the future judges of the Constitutional Court will do their job with dignity, as the Constitutional Court judge should do and that it will best protect constitutionality in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9973	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. You have three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following today’s debate, we could see many interesting things. Part of the ruling majority, for example, says candidates are problematic because there is not one professor of constitutional law, but of course they will vote for these candidates. Part of the ruling majority says the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges is problematic, because they have very few candidates outside Belgrade, or there is one "Belgrade" candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, but will of course vote for the proposed candidates. We have now heard one of the MPs from the ruling majority speak negatively about three candidates of their own party, or their own ruling majority. What an average citizen can conclude from this discussion is indeed one big question. The fact is that none of you, representing the ruling majority, have said a single good word about any candidate for the Constitutional Court. There is no President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic here to defend his eight proposals for candidate judges of the Constitutional Court. So he's obviously ashamed of his candidates. There is no Maja Gojkovic here to defend her ten proposals for the Constitutional Court judges. She's obviously ashamed of her candidates, too. From the presentation of so many representatives of the ruling majority, we don't hear a single nice word about one of the candidates that you yourself have proposed. Here I have a few nice words about one of your candidates, a lawyer from Belgrade, Dusan Ignatiavic, former head of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and associate Natasha Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund. So, there's this great candidate you've proposed, who's always been on the line for The Hague tribunal in Serbia, who has been working with Natasha Kandic, and I assume that it recommended that the SNS propose him to judge the Constitutional Court. By the same logic, you could suggest both Tony Blair and Hillary Clinton and a series of other friends of yours around the world who apparently have the same access to the former bombing of Serbia by the NATO Pact or to everything that your Western friends have done to us so often. Your candidate is also Dr. Tamas Korhec, who is a professor at the Faculty of Legal and Business Studies "Dr. Lazar Vrkatic", who was also denied by his Hungarian movement, whose vice president was also the creator of that famous anti-constitutional Separatist statute of Vojvodina. So that's your candidate, too. Your candidate is Vesna Ilic Prelic, the current representative of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, who is directly responsible for the failure of the Constitutional Court in the previous period. So it is she who is responsible for why there was no assessment of the constitutionality of the Brussels Agreement, why there was no assessment of the constitutionality of the pensioner's robbery, why there was no assessment of the constitutionality of the "Begrad on Water" leks. So when all of this is collected and taken away, it's clear that you choose your party listeners... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9975	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9976	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Court is a backbone in the construction and preservation of the rule of law. In that sense, it is completely unreasonable to propose that certain opposition MPs should also be abolished. A good example of this is the court practice of the German Federal Constitutional Court and its influence on the development of justice. In particular, judicial practice in the field of fundamental human rights has significantly strengthened human rights and protection against acts of state authorities. For this reason, it encourages the introduction and implementation of a constitutional appeal in Serbia. We hope that it will achieve a similar goal in Serbia that it had in Germany. In the previous period, we had a constitutional judiciary with too many changes that did not produce adequate results, so they did not take place. The Constitutional Court, as a category, means resolving constitutional disputes by the courts in order to protect the Constitution, resulting in the adoption of the constitutional principle. This means not only the existence of the written Constitution, but also its determination, as the primary law of the most legal force with which all legal acts and material activities, both citizens and all state authorities, must be brought into line. Today the Constitution and rule of law, but also the rule of law, have a millennium tradition. Most of today's civilised states, in the last few centuries, have solidified political systems, economics, culture, constitutionality and the rule of law. The strategy of the past certainly has great knowledge and experience, and it is important to learn from the great thinkers. Thus, a cyceron syntagma, learned from Plato, was accepted in Latin form in the 13th century by the Supreme Court of England, and believe it or not, and it is said that people cannot be above the established laws. It is only in the 199 Constitution that the Republic of Serbia is based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the rule of law and social justice. What is important to point out, when it comes to protecting the rights of the state, the individual, whoever he is, cannot be above the law and that judges are fully independent and relieved, without pressure, doing their job with honor to protect the law, the Constitution and constitutional order in the state. We say that justice is slow, but available, so we have waited for a full eight centuries that thanks to the government, which took responsibility for its country in 2012, and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, finally the courts are working independently, without the influence of various powerful men and that the individual is finally not stronger than the state, however he called himself and how much he sponsored and participated in his money and helped campaigns, now opposition giants, from 2000 to 2012. Expectation and hope slowed down in October 2000, i.e. The profound changes in the direction of the rule of law, democracy and market economy have not been achieved, which has led us to a very invisible situation and to the door of bankruptcy. There was no change in institutions that could and had to be reformed or changed, but when they were reformed, as a judiciary, it was done in a disastrous way, unpotistically, on the party line, which is why today we pay tribute to such reforms, both professionally and financially. At the very least, it is incorrect for us to honor outdated cases and poor judgments. Such an unheard reform of the judiciary was the right example to confirm the rule that personal interest and the struggle for power is the main cause that today we have the problems we inherited and we have to solve them and correct them in the way that we know and know best. Correction of the social situation should begin by not calling each thing a real name, which means that any phenomenon that is relevant to legal relations is properly qualified and clearly defined. The introduction of legality and constitutionality could also begin with the introduction of real and precise legal terms, a qualification with broad freedom within the limits of rights. The rule of law implies a rational, fair right and permanent right and obligation, a lasting continuity of constitutional solutions and respect for human rights and freedoms acquired. In England, in 1215, the nobles and the clergy signed the Grand Charter of Freedom, and 20 years later, in 1235, a legal principle was signed that restricts every individual authority, including the monarch. Finally, the effectiveness of the constitutional judiciary means that its decisions are taken by citizens, as well as by other branches of government, which depends on how constitutional judges perform their functions, but also on the country's legal culture. For the sake of our citizens, today we could hear something from Mrs Dragana Petrovic's biography, which I don't know, but what I heard was a recital published in "Blica" since 9 February 2015, but of course a shortened version. The last few sentences read: "At the Court of Appeal, Ms Dragana Petrovic received a third-base dispute. The college has been convicted and must be awarded a million dinars with interest, as compensation. “ That’s what you forgot to say, and that’s what you kept quiet, and on whose burden? The burden of the budget, and the pocket of our citizens. The way you've prepared the charges, the way you've done the investigations and how you've conducted the litigation, we see today. We pay a million dinars from the budget, from the pockets of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9977	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9978	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of the election of the Constitutional Court judges, in my opinion, must not be a political question. It must not be a political question, in that sense, that we in the National Assembly argue to the point of making our relationship almost unbearable. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are asking us to be responsible, to be responsible for the work they have chosen us for, which is to safeguard the interest of our country. The Constitutional Court has this important task to safeguard the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legal act of our country. We must be so responsible as to help our society, to help the state, to choose in this tall home those who will be judges of the Constitutional Court, those who will be the most responsible in the Constitutional Court for decisions made there. Today my predecessors also mentioned the subject of corruption. I simply have to look back, because one of the issues is prevention, what is done in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to prevention in the fight against corruption. This authority has brought, just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, passed the Alerter Protection Act in 2014. Only after the law was passed, about a year and a half after that, did we have 299 disputes launched, of which 213 cases were resolved, i.e. 71% of resolved cases that have been initiated by the total number of disputes. Since there is no shame in who instilled corruption, grew up in Serbia, encouraged, co-operated with tycoons, who strangled the economy and the economy, to talk to us today about corruption. If I were these people, I'd be covered in ears, not to mention corruption. I would say, - here, today we will discuss only the judges of the Constitutional Court, by some comment, and that, however, I would not even like to owe them, where there is no shame, a lot of words about some people who are leading Serbia right today. And, what I'm saying to end, it's not hard to bring down the state, to bring everyone around, but it's hard to get the state back on its good feet, it's hard to raise the economy, the economy, it's hard, if you're used to crime and corruption, for your judiciary to be independent. For some, it's hard. That's why some decisions of the Constitutional Court are controversial, that's why so much anxiety when the Constitutional Court's work is mentioned, that's why so much criticism towards judges, courts, everything justice and justice is in one country. These, and such criticisms have not been heard by the ruling majority MPs, and sometimes and now, I mean my colleagues from the SNS. We are responsible and state-of-the-art towards both the Serbian Parliament and the Republic of Serbia, and thus we will continue to do our job, all in the interest and for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9979	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9980	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't take too much of your time, because I don't think there's any need for that. Things are more than clear around here. In addition, as we certainly support the other decisions contained in this joint, unified search, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to say that, when it comes to candidates for the Constitutional Court of our republics, they are good proposals. So, I wanted to confirm that, since we met on several occasions today with questions about whether anything was said here for support, whether it was heard or quoted -- a nice word for these candidates. It can be registered officially, here it is now – it's really good suggestions. It is a pity that those who wanted to criticise failed to follow the proposed mechanism, i.e. making a decision, to the end. Picking, then missing notice, doesn't pick a party of people now. The National Assembly sets out a proposal, and on the basis of this proposal, the President of the Republic will elect and vice versa. On the basis of the proposal submitted by the President of the Republic, the National Assembly will be declared among several candidates. There has been some conflict with names, but well, let's not insist that there is a need for attention to the last detail by those who have used us to the surface in carrying out MPs. What should be noted is that, indeed, there was no need, nor will there ever be a need when it comes to such proposals to insist on political reckoning, to mention the SNS in a negative context, and the President of the Republic. Everything in the style of primitive and sneezy, there's no need for that. I understand that the president of the Republic also mentioned those who probably admire him politically, because they know that they will never be politically relevant to him. It still doesn't justify certain words spoken here. As I understand it, there are people who simply cannot get over the fact that he showed who was carrying political relevance in some years behind us. He and the people who supported him politically, not you. But since it is totally unacceptable for us to reduce anything today to personal insults and defile any individual candidate, because it is indeed good candidates, candidates who not only meet the conditions, but also overcome these basic conditions. I wanted to show all the error of such an approach based on one single example, I believe it's not necessary anymore, and I promised to deal with the weather economically. Someone today allowed himself the luxury of challenging, for example, the expertise of Prof. Dr. Dragana Kolabic. Listen only to the shortest of which it is. For example, about the person who graduated from the Earth High School with confessions, the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, as one of the best students, received praises and awards for these basic studies, the average score of 9.31, at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade defended the master's work, was employed in 1997, when we talk about whether there was the possibility of any political help for someone's career, at the Police Academy, defended the doctoral dissertation, the Law Faculty of Belgrade, chosen as a professor of crime and how difficult it is to do so. In addition to working at the Criminal and Police Academy in teaching and teaching at the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad, over 150 scientific papers, three monographs, two manuals, reviews in scientific journals, membership in the organisational committees of various scientific and research conferences, duty-produced, duty dean, member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, member of the Working Group, expert working on the preparation of several laws. To challenge the expertise in this case, only someone who really wants to convince us that he has as clear as this bench in front of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9981	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the Parliamentary Groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9982	Dear citizens of Serbia, who you have been following, or who you are not directly following this assembly debate of ours, because there is always, over and over again, a way to break it in direct transmission and to broadcast something else, so possibly follow this in some delayed transmission after midnight, I would like to tell you a few final notes. If I understand correctly, the mandated promoter, or representative of the SNS, the good candidates for the Constitutional Court judges are co-workers of The Hague tribunal and Natasha Kandic, remember that. So, a good candidate for the Constitutional Court judge is a co-worker of The Hague tribunal and Natasha Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund. A good candidate for the Constitutional Court is cousin Tomislav Nikolic, I assume that defined her candidacy. A good candidate for the Constitutional Court is the current President of the Constitutional Court, who kept quiet and did nothing on key issues, and I understand why he is a good candidate for you, because he kept quiet when it was necessary to assess constitutionality and Brussels agreements, and to rob pensioners through pension cuts, and "lex specialis" about "Belgrade on Water". Of course, you support such judges and you like the Constitutional Court to continue to work so as not to interfere in its business. So that's your idea of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. That they do not interfere in their business and do not make any assessment of the constitutionality for all those elements of the violation of the Constitution that you are constantly doing. So, if I understand correctly, a good candidate is a duchy separatist who took part in writing the anti-constitutional Separatist Statute in Vojvodina. They're all good candidates, according to the SNS. The more separatism in Vojvodina, the more co-operation with The Hague tribunal and Natasha Kandic, the more silence of the Serbian Constitutional Court on key issues, the more, of course, the quality of these candidates, from your point of view. However, to ignore all this I was talking about, to look at why you were so ashamed of these candidates, why there are no mandated candidates, why does the president of Serbia not defend his candidates, why does the president of the Serbian Parliament not defend his candidates? So why don't you shut up, why don't you be proud of your candidates? Are you hiding something? Are you perhaps hiding the party obedience, the party closeness of these SNS candidates? So it was easier to choose here a judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia than a judge of the basic court. For the judge of the basic court, there were more criteria, more arguments, more arguments than the judges of the Constitutional Court in this interpretation of yours. Of course it's logical for you and that it's better for the US judge to be someone with less legal knowledge than professors of constitutional law at state colleges. You still failed to explain why there is not a single professor of constitutional law at a single state college at the University of Serbia, as a candidate for US judge. He's gone, but that's why there are others who are close and obedient to the SNS. Of course this is in the interest of Alexander Vukic's personal regime. Of course, this is the interest of a personal regime that doesn't want anyone to control it, so when it suits it, it doesn't have the control role of the National Assembly in 2016. Then of course, he controls the president, so now he wants to control the USS as he controlled it in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9983	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9984	I thank the chairman. I was convinced that today enough has already been said in this room and argued, and that too much of the stupidity has been said, but that never seems to end. It is indeed inadmissible to suffer the insult of the candidates of this home by representatives of a parliamentary group who had neither the knowledge nor the courage, nor wanted to try to propose one candidate possible for a US judge. Obviously, the aim of the MP's group is to just insult, try to lower the level of debate in this assembly below the level of bar debate at the Ibaric Master's, but simply, this house will not allow it. All these candidates are proposed in the procedure prescribed by the Constitution, in an extremely democratic way, it has been possible for everyone to propose what they think. It is easy to criticise, to work, not the work of MPs in this assembly just to convince what he heard from other MPs who know what topic they are talking about, who are referred to on the subject in a completely wrong way. Of course we're satisfied with the procedure that's been done. I will remind myself that I have suggested that these conditions should be remembered even more, to improve when it comes to changing the Constitution, to change the provisions on how to run and elect judges, but these 18 proposals that we have before us guarantee the possibility to be chosen by extremely good, high-quality people in the new United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9985	Thank you. The word is written by MP Dusan Petrovic, 1.34.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9986	Once again, just to point out my proposal and request that the president of the VCC and VSS Mr Milojevic appear here in parliament, because it is important that we all debate together that it is 350 judges less than today in 2011 managed to solve almost 700,000 cases more than in 2013 and 670,000 cases more than in 2015. As in 2011, a judge of the basic court dealt with 1500 cases on average, in 2013 800 cases, and in 2015 more than that. Then it is no wonder, and I will say this once again, that according to the World Bank survey, 68% of Serbian citizens do not trust in courts, according to research by those engaged by competent institutions after the opening of chapters 23 and 24, even 80% of Serbian citizens do not trust in courts. I think it is very instructive, and I will conclude with the Council on Combating Corruption, the Serbian government has drawn attention to the violation of the presummation of innocence by members of the government and the problems that prosecutors and judges have because of such behaviour. So, the sooner we see Mr Milojevic here, I think it's better for everyone, because parliament will have the opportunity to debate with him about what is essential to the citizens of Serbia and their faith in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-12-0.u9987	Thank you. Since no one who has failed to exercise their right under Article 96 has appeared, I am concluding a joint single search. This is what we're done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 1 9:45 p.m.]]
