ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7908	Good afternoon. Allow me to mention some basic moments in the opening statement and say some basic parameters that have guided us in the preparation of the draft budget and the accompanying laws for 2017 that are ahead of you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Do you have the right to interrupt me like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7909	No, not the Minister, please speak, and the MP called when you started talking. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why am I not entitled to the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7910	Let me start by saying... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure. Let me make a statement to the Rules of Procedure, and then you can go ahead. I won't disturb you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7911	I do, but only if he's in charge of the session, but since you're harassing me, then first the minister. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: I have the right under Article 172) I believe everything. Minister, please, just don't let anything interfere with your presentation, it'll be everyone. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: The minister cannot ignore the MPs of the people. I'm here. Vojislav Seselj throws. But he can't force it, Member Seselj. I have a lot of understanding for MPs, especially the opposition, but I can't force it. The minister started talking, and we're good hosts, so we'll let him finish. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: In the songs sings... Here you go. Just please, I'm sure there'll be a throwout, but don't let anything bother you. I gave you my word a long time ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7912	If you can allow me to continue, as you know, the aim of the opening presentation is to inform the MPs of which the Government has managed to prepare the draft budget for 2017 and the accompanying laws that are generally proposed to you for consideration, discussion and adoption. First, several notes on what has been done so far and what are the starting moments in preparing this budget. We are in the final step of the completion of the sixth review of the three-year precautionary agreement with the IMF, which was set out in autumn 2014, approved by the IMF Council in February 2015 and supported by a programme of fiscal consolidation and economic reforms of the Government of Serbia, which this Parliament has considered and adopted both as part of the annual budget and as part of the fiscal strategy and as part of a whole series of laws and sublegal acts, which have subsequently led the country to pull itself out of a difficult fiscal situation, to rotate on the path of sustainable positive growth and to complete economic reforms that have been extended for several decades, unsuccessfully, without completion and without training to deal with competition in the region and the world. Secondly, I want to realize that Serbia, that our starting position, what has been done, has made huge progress in objective investment climate criteria and conditions for business management in Serbia. One of the indicators is "Duing Business List" where Serbia has progressed from 91 to 47 and not only that, but has found itself in a group of the most successful countries implementing reforms and thus creating conditions for real investors to come to Serbia and domestic and foreign countries to create new jobs, raise GDP and raise Serbia's citizens' standards. Finally, as a result of two years of work, a seriously improved credit rating has been seriously improved. Serbia is now located only on one or one and a half steps to an investment rating, which allows Serbia to access, without a valid arrangement with the Fund itself, the sources of funds on the world market, which, as you know, are much cheaper in terms of interest rates and much more generous and better in terms of deadlines that can be obtained. Serbia will have access to 2% of funds or below for 10 years or more. Growth in economic activity has been evident in recent years and what is much more important, sustainable in the long run. The driver of economic growth on the side of demand was the investment of exports, and later I will mention that it is gradually and now rightly transferred to consumption. The economic growth projection for 2016 for the third time has been revised and I will not start from those old projections, only from these newer ones. So it's been said that maximum expected growth is 1.8%. It's moved two steps to 2.5%, and now we're talking about a growth of 2.7%, and it can happen that growth is bigger than that. This is, on the one hand, the result of the acceleration of economic activity in Serbia, the permanent recovery of Serbia's economy, and, more importantly, the recognition of the international community and objective institutions dealing with economic activity analysis, that Serbia is gradually, slowly, but certainly coming out of the crisis and entering that level of economic growth that is both sustainable and above the average of Europe and thus catching a step slowly with Europe. That may be less than expected, especially the expectations of some individuals, but it is the safest and best way for Serbia to take a step and slowly close that gef. We were much closer to Europe 20 years ago by all indicators of development, standards, people. Now take it easy, but I'm sure we're starting to close that guff. The additional elements are that this is all happening in terms of conditions, so we accelerate economic growth, the shift was in the third quarter of 2014, i.e., it was the lowest point, and after that, every quarter of the situation is constantly improving, and this is all happening in conditions of exceptional macroeconomic stability. Citizens no longer have to worry about the real value of their incomes. Inflation is stable at 1.5% for last year, i.e. January-October. We expect this stability to continue and you will hear in our projections at the level of inflation contained. The same trend is expected in GDP. The second thing is very important, after 11 months, just a few days ago, we concluded books in 11 months, and we realized that we had a surplus at the level of the republican budget between 30 and 40 billion, that we didn't exactly know the exact amount and that we're about at the balance sheet level of the general state. This is an amazing result for Serbia, that 11 months of cumulation will be like this, meaning, not by some turn-off at the end of the year, but after 11 months of continuous measurement of deficits, that we are in the surplus of the republican budget and the balanced budget of the general state. Such a result few countries can boast. Let me remind you. At the beginning of the year, we were projecting and expecting as a point in the way of stability of the 4% deficit, the level of the general state of 160 billion, rounding the figures, or 120 billion at the level of the republican budget. Today we have a surplus after 11 months at the level of the republican budget and perhaps a small, minimum or zero deficit at the general state level. By the end of the year, the revised figures say the deficit will be half down, the country's deficit in general will be 2-2.1%. I think it's realistic to be better than that, even with the taking over of debts from some companies that are vital to stability in the chemical complex, to make it significantly better than 2%, with all the debt and liabilities, paying off pensions, single bonuses for pensioners, to stay in these frameworks. I'd like to ask you for some parliamentaryity. That term is used by friends everywhere. For me to listen to you later, you listen to me today, please, if we can make a deal like that. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Minister, you did not want to listen to me this morning... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7913	Minister, I ask you not to engage in controversy with them. They're here to earn a little, to distract you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7914	They're disrupting my concentration. I'm not against it, but... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: We don't throw, we're... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7915	That's the intention of us not discussing the budget today. As soon as the session begins, I have a clear picture of what it will look like. Please continue. Minister, do you want to continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7916	I'd ask, if we can't maintain a minimum level of discipline, maybe there's no need to expose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7917	How can I explain to you, of the 250 MPs, 245 wants to hear your presentations, so most of them prevail.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7918	There are other consulting rooms, outside of this room, you can consult there. I really don't want to, but it really bothers me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7919	Minister, I believe you have a problem with every man who's committed to his job...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7920	I'm saying this as a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7921	But they have succeeded in their intention, Minister. I am asking MPs of the opposition, of course, I have heard three voices, to allow the finance minister to explain, both for your sake and for the public, the draft budget for 2017. I believe the citizens of Serbia who watch this part of the broadcast want to hear it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: The injury of the Rules of Procedure! There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure really about that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How is there no? No, we don't want to play obstructions of that kind. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: We are not playing at all, but you are destroying parliamentaryism. Ambassador, you didn't get the word. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Then what are you talking to me about? I give you a warning about this behavior during the session. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! No, the minister has a word. Just to see if the Minister can use his right. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: Can you allow me to speak? Here, I try as hard as I can, but the minority threatens most of it here. Minister, continue, please. I ask you, on behalf of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to continue your exposure and not to be disturbed by something that obviously has the intention of preventing you from doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7922	Thank you very much. As I said, so, there was a growth of 2.7% and maybe more. By the end of the year, an annual inflation growth of only 1.5% was recorded, putting us in line with the leading countries for stability in Europe. More important, parallel with success on the fiscal plan, there is an enviable improvement on the side of the balance of payments, i.e. the current balance of payments. Serbia today has a much smaller deficit that runs at about one and a half billion euros. We expect foreign direct investment to exceed that. Therefore, Serbia will gain more in permanent investment than is the current balance. It was also established last year for the first time, and this year it will be even bigger. That's very important. This means that Serbia does not have to borrow funds to finance the current balance deficit. At the same time, we achieve these results on the fiscal side. Therefore, our need for borrowing does not exist on either side. We are in charge only to better manage public debt, to reduce public debt spending, free citizens of Serbia from high interest payments, reduce interest, we have an improvement on each of these fronts. Besides, we have a growth in employment. Positive labour market developments confirm this, confirm the central register of compulsory social security, which is the most important, since taxes and contributions to salaries are paid and this is the best measure. The average number of formal employees in October 2016 increased by 1.4% year-on-year, fully due to the growth of employment in the private sector. So, in the country, there is still a freezing of employment, with little exceptions to the decisions of a special commission that approves it on the basis of justification requirements. According to the National Employment Service, the total number of active unemployed at the end of October was 686,721 persons, down by 4.8% compared to the same period last year. The result of faster growth in the private sector -- significantly reduced pay gaps between the public and private sectors. Remember, at the beginning of these reforms, we had a problem not only that the public sector was bigger than it should have been, but that the profits in the public sector were bigger than in the private sector, which was the wrong signal in the market, that young people and all prefer employment in the state and other parts of the public sector, and not in the private sector. That difference from 15% to 5%. So the state is still ahead, but the state has an average higher level of qualifications, even though it doesn't have to be the only factor in determining wages. That element still prevails and the difference is still 5%, but that's three times less than at the beginning of these reforms. The average net earnings increased in January-October 2016 by 2.7% realistically. Inflation is small, and therefore small nominal increases provide quite a real growth, which is primarily the result of profits in the area of the processing industry and trade. So in the real sector, we're catching up in those branches where the fall and the lagging was the biggest and deepest in the 1990s and over the past years. Real average net earnings in the public sector were slightly increased in January-October by 0.9%, primarily as a result of the allowed improvements and reductions in the number of employees on the basis of so-called. natural drain, which is either leaving the public sector or retirement. In the private sector, this increase is 3.8%. So more than four times bigger. Therefore, this is what we want, to reduce pay gaps and to grow real profits in the private sector. The desired growth model was established based on an increase in investment and exports, which is a guarantee of its sustainability and, I will say a little later, we gradually create conditions and that consumption, which has been a problem for years, takes a step and starts to represent one of the sources of growth, but on sustainable foundations. The three-year goals set for the fiscal consolidation programme, which relate to the level of structural adjustment of the fiscal deficit and the share of public debt in the gross domestic product, also have positive tendencies. Of the planned 4% structural adjustment we have already achieved 3.9%. So, in two out of three years, we've achieved almost complete adaptation. It is a very important professional term, but for ordinary people it means that the sustainable part of the deficit is reduced to the extent this economy, which this country can endure on a long term. So we don't have any more of those structural elements of expenditure or structural disadvantages on the side of income that lead us into an unexplainable situation. So 3.9 of 4% of the identified elements we've already solved. To illustrate on the other hand, in 2014, when we submitted budget rebalance in December, the deficit was 6.6% of GDP. That 4% would bring us back below the Mastricht level. So, illustratively, in that case, those 4% would bring us down from 6.6 to below 3%. The Mastricht is 3%, and for us it was a little bit sharper, because yet this economy has a lower ability to handle and deal with the deficit and the price of the debt and the ratings that we have in the world. That's an impressive result. We must endure in the third year of this program. We don't have to move on. We have a serious disagreement here, and I expect that Parliament and I have a common position, not to exaggerate, when we get to that level of fiscal consolidation that brings us to a sustainable path towards economic growth, debt and deficits not to exaggerate, but to carefully continue with investment programmes, the creation of a private sector programme, the sustainable growth of all categories, the creation of space for the private sector and most importantly – the space for raising the quality of social services. So we don't want to go too far with fiscal consolidation. There are many places in this country where we can offer better quality social services, better quality education, health care and all that together we all want to be on the side of those who provide these funds and on the side of citizens, the users of these funds. The fiscal deficit of the general state, according to the latest estimates, will be half as low as planned, and my estimate is that it will be less than that. There is no real basis to expect that in December, the entire 2% that is ahead of us will be used, even if we take over the debts that are proposed, and there may not seem to be any real basis, since the state cannot take over these debts unless they are based on real restructuring programmes for these companies. So their strategic importance is one element, but the sustainability of these programs is another element. There's no point in throwing people's money, which is what you'd say, in a well with no bottom. Therefore, we must be offered credible guarantees that these programmes are sustainable, that these jobs are sustainable, in order for us to accept part of that burden and transfer it to the future. Better fiscal results are due this year above all to better results on the side of revenues. We spent everything we planned on the cost side. That's where we've already been installing our savings. Therefore, on the cost side we have already installed savings, on the side of the income we have installed some small improvements, I hear that these issues have already been raised, some small increases, adjustments to certain tax instruments resulting from the years of practice of annual harmonisation with inflation in some specific taxes or other harmonisation measures, formulae, indexation etc. Including that, we've made 110 billion more revenue than the original official plan. Of that, 50 billion are non-tax revenues, and 60 billion are tax revenues. So it's very open. In tax revenues we have two elements – one is due to reviving economic growth, and we want everyone to know very openly what we owe to, and the other half is due to a better and more efficient collection of existing tax instruments. So the greater effort in tax collection has resulted in this improvement. So we've made 60 billion more tax payments, and 50 billion savings in public enterprises, dividend payments and all other elements, including those of the 4G licenses, etc. So these are all elements that are treated as one-time non-tax revenues, part of it has a permanent character, but we still treat it as one-time, and 60 billion is an increase in tax revenues. It is very important that the trend of increasing efficiency continues, although international organisations do not recognise this increase in income, it is very important to understand that this is an integral part of better functioning. The achievement of a better result allowed us to plan in the 2017 budget for selective wage increases in individual sectors which are the most lagging, according to our analyses. I think that you agree intuitively, too, so that's the education sector, that's the health sector, and that's some other sectors that have a very important place, and besides, sectors that have been exposed to increased efforts and increased risks, such as all sectors related to internal affairs, defences, etc. A favourable fiscal result has also created a space for the payment of one-time bonuses to pensioners this year and a permanent increase in the coming years. The fiscal consolidation measures launched in 2015 have lowered the primary deficit to only 0.5% of GDP, and we will have a primary surplus in the following year. So, next year, we're entering the primary surplus. So you take the total deficit, you subtract interest from it and you get the primary deficit. So our interest is planned for next year, already this year we will have a minimum deficit, they are planned at 133 billion, if the deficit is planned at the level of the Republic of 69 billion, and the general states of 70 and a few billion, we are for that difference in the primary surplus. So that difference in interest, we pay the cost of that borrowing that occurred in the past, for legitimate or less justified reasons. Usually, the reasons were always justified, only the question was whether we were funding liquidity and some lack of funds, or if we were in charge of doing structural improvements in the economy and creating a basis for future economic growth, we could discuss it in particular. As a result of all these events, we are planning, remember, I mentioned, in September we had a 70.8% share in GDP, by the end of the year, because of the use of some loans, because of the use of project loans and because of the withdrawal of the first tranche of some loans, we will have a debt of 73.5% at the end of December of this year, according to our projections, and will start from that point definitely to fall as a participation in GDP in the coming years. In the first year that will be the subject of your budget review, it is planned at 72.8%. It's not a big cut, but it's important. We expect that this will be the turning point and that from then on, the contribution of debt to GDP will keep falling, until we descend, I hope gradually and stablely, to the level of Mastricht, which is about 60%. Note that Mastricht is a very small number of EU countries. Therefore, 60% have very few countries, most countries are moving beyond our share of debt in GDP, and it is a very important element that they pay a much lower price of the debt than we do. We are taking a step here and reducing that price, but it takes time to recognise the results of fiscal consolidation. For your information, the private sector, especially through foreign banks, already recognises these results and refinances the debts of large public enterprises at interest rates that are two to three percent lower, stable than those at which they owed several years ago. Examples are "Srbigas", EPS and others, including by offer. So, not that anyone is pushing them, but to keep these companies as clients, no one else can take loans of several hundred million euros, offering rates below 3%. So we're now approaching all fronts, that's that positive effect of fiscal consolidation on all fronts, not just where we're saving in the budget, but on all fronts, these results are expanding. So now public enterprises have a lower cost of borrowing because we have these results. It is very important for me to remind you that at the level of bilateral meetings I was surprised that fellow ministers of the economy and finance of the countries with which we have had meetings in recent months know to detail the results Serbia has achieved and with a great degree of interest follow it and want to apply in its environments, the businesses that have really good performances show interest in our results. I will list only two examples of direct talks, one is Hungary, the other is Slovenia. So, they, people, truly appreciate what we are accomplishing and want to co-operate both at the level of policy definition and at the level of achieving medium-term goals. What are we planning for 2017? The economic growth projection for 2017, as well as for 2016, has been constantly improving and we have now come to the point that everyone admits that the real growth rate is 3%. That's 0.8% higher than the original projection 2.2%. The deficit, instead of projected 2.8%, when we came with the first program here, 2.8% was a project deficit for 2017, and now we've brought it down to 1.7% of the general government deficit. So, then they admitted that we could barely stand 2.8%, and now they think that 1.7% is real and sustainable, including this salary increase I mentioned, including a significant increase in investment activity, i.e. capital expenditure in the interest and development of the primary sector and citizens of Serbia and increasing Serbia's competitiveness, i.e. Approaching Serbia to European markets and joining the South, East and Europe through Serbia. The reforms we have done so far and the projects that are under way have led to a 5.7% growth in investment activity and that is one of the main generators of economic growth. In the following year, we expect that, of these 3%, investment will contribute 1.2%. The other two elements that will lead to an increase in growth are net exports, with 0.6%, meaning that exports are growing, and imports are growing slower and 0.6%, these 3% will be the result of an increase in net exports, and the remaining 1%, so 1.2%, 1.6% is 1% going to contribute to consumption, some remain small, state spending, and 0.2%. So now we have a gradual emergence of consumption in this range contributes to the growth of the social product, it's very significant. Let me just have one dipression here to explain. Everyone wants consumption, consumption growth, as a final goal. When we tried to encourage aggregate demand, at the beginning of this millennium, we did it, it turns out we had, to use the folk term big slip. In fact, we encouraged aggregate demand, but it did not raise domestic production enough, rather it raised imports more than domestic production. Which was expected, because after ten years of sanctions, people wanted to buy cars and televisions and everything else, and they wanted to be in charge, and it was all normal and expected. The only problem is, it was unsustainable. Then, the moment the grenades stopped, the moment the signs fell, when the recession hit the world economy, the moment we spent the money we received from the privatisation, those sources of growth suddenly disappeared. It was a sign, I don't want to define here, or my fellow economists, or the people of politics, we were in a situation where it was an obvious and easy tool to speed up economic growth, but we didn't see the limitations of that growth. Keniz is right, but management is for developed economies that fall 100% from production level to 80% due to recession. Well, then, by raising the aggregate demand, we're going back to that level, when you jump into the pool, and come back immediately, but if you jump down the falls, it won't help you, you can't swim from the bottom of the waterfall to the top, and Serbia's economy was at the bottom of such a waterfall. So the only way to do that is to get up another way and we're doing it now. It is now creating opportunities for consumption to gradually become, above all, funded by private sector salaries, become a source of growth that will largely generate domestic production, domestic employment, and the role of the state is to prepare the ground for it and prepare for smart investments to grow private investment and sustainable long-term growth. This is the applied knowledge of all economists and all businesses that have been successful for the past 50 years, this has been done by all countries, such as Korea, such as China and others. They used the opportunities they had to come to sustainable growth, to shut down all the deficits and not be dependent on the will or the whim of anyone outside the country. The active attitude towards policy and economic growth is a crucial element and we are approaching this goal in the third year of this programme, which supports the Fund, which is our programme. In addition, I must stress that the effects, meaning investments, will act on economic growth in the implementation phase, by encouraging the construction industry and all the services that are generated by the team, and the long-term increase in the capacity of the economy by closing the missing places, means the highway where you end up 20km of missing, from once it starts to affect the efficiency of the economy at once, all of which are 200 or 300km away from Belgrade, becoming closer by an hour, two or three, transport costs are decreasing, European markets are getting closer, Middle Eastern markets are becoming closer to Serbia, and it can count on logistics to be enabling, not limiting the economic growth factor in the future. The current payment deficit will be reduced from 6% in 2014, when the government in this composition received a mandate, to 3.9% in 2017. It may not seem like much to you, but it's very important, because it's done without any restrictions and it's done in a course that's quite stable. So people still have high motivation to import even though we are constantly improving both trade balance and current balance of payments, that means that all other policies function and give the right effect. We are also constantly improving the trade balance and current balance of payments, which means that all other policies work and give the right effect. Why is this important? Because not getting into all the details of this, because this macroeconomic framework defines the budget planning framework. So, everyone will tell you that the budgets that were planned from the expenditure were not achieved by definition. The logic that expenditures are planned first, and then the GDP projection is adjusted to fit the expenditures has proved to be devastatingly unsustainable and harmful. Whether it was leading to inflation or some kind of unhealthy adjustment, or because it generated debts that were not sustainable on the longer term. We, in the budget design, start first from the continuity of all those austerity measures that we introduced at the very beginning and realistic consideration of the projectability, primarily of income, and then of adapting expenditure to this framework. The revenues were projected as a less constant share of GDP, which we have projected, as I said, starting from this year, so they raised it by 3% of real GDP growth and 1.6% of deflators, i.e. GDP inflation. So when you multiply those two rates, you're going to get a total increase of 4,400 nominal GDP, that is, exactly 4.397 billion. It's this famous, crucial size that everything else is projected on. We projected on that basis income that then defined at the desired level of deficits, defined both the amount of expenditure, all expenditures. Not only that, we have set ourselves another task, we have been improving the scope of the budget under consideration in this House for years. Well, we're all funding, so-called that were below the line raised above the line. We did not, or eliminated financing, provide guarantees for liquid liquidity, because this proved to be inefficient spending of public resources and we moved on to a system of increasing coverage in the budget. This year we're taking a big step that way. We include loan projects in the budget. So they used to run in two places. First, they were held in Article 3 as intended and current loans that we have and were conducted, of course, in public debt. The moment they were effective and planned, they were in article 3 of the budget, but they weren't planned to do so. the financial plan, meaning the revenues and expenditures of the budget rather than the budget beneficiaries, and only later have they been consolidated at the general state level. This year we want to include it in the budget deficit. You will notice that investments are practically doubled this year, because 43.5 billion project loans are included in the budget. What does that mean? That means it's the subject of your consideration. This means that all of these, all of these ministries and all those users of the funds that are doing this, have to plan projects more precisely and be responsible for the dynamics of the implementation. For years, we had a situation where only the part covered by the budget was planned in the budget, and the part financed from external sources was not planned in the budget. It was mentioned in Article 3. So nothing was hidden from the information, but from Article 3 and the ratifications you approved, which you approved those loans, you did not know the dynamics of use, and so it happened that we in unused loans had about three and a half billion euros to which we paid interest, on which we were committed, and on which the creditors took us as a potential debt and which limits us the possibility of optimal debt and projects. That was our legacy from the past. We want to eliminate this step by step. This year we are making a big step in this sense that all project loans, 43.5 billion, are included in the budget and the figures you have before you, these 69.1 billion, which will be the figure of the deficit of the republican budget, contains 43.5 billion project loans. So the remaining number is 25.6, if I'm not wrong, that's the number of the deficit that's comparable to the previous year. It's a figure of only 0.6% of GDP. It is a figure that represents a record in the budget submitted to parliament for consideration since 2000. So that's the figure that's comparable to 2005, 2006. I'm not talking about execution, I'm talking about Parliament's proposal. So this government and the Serbian government have never submitted to parliament a budget that had a smaller proposed deficit in that section that is comparable, historic 0.6%. As an economist, I'd be afraid to suggest better than that. Let me be clear in the numbers. This is compared to a 20.5 billion figure compared to a GDP of 1,750 billion, which was submitted in 2005. That was 1.2%. So that's the difference, she was 1.2%, this is 0.6%. We're still looking at the total 1.6%. Secondly, pay attention, just so it's obvious, by moving between the general government deficits doesn't change. These 43.5 billion, that's about 1% of the social product. So 0.6%, plus 1%, plus 0.1%, that's what we suggested in the old format, that would be the same thing, so only 43.5%, would not be in front of you, but would happen in plans, financial plans of the Serbian Corridor, etc., and you would get just that as a result of the execution, and you wouldn't have the opportunity to directly see the reality of planning and responsibility in carrying out that part of the budget. I can continue to explain to you in detail all the elements, but I think the continuation of the general debate and the amendment will give us the opportunity to look much more closely at all the elements of this budget. As you know, we started the budget process this year in time, the day after conditions were created. On the board, I already said, our budget calendar requires that we go on February 1st, when we can. In a situation where you have a three-year fund program, you can't start on February 1st, first, because you'd have to ask for five times some consent, second, because that would make us go with much more conservative estimates. Remember, I've already mentioned the number, 1.8% would have been, so if we'd started on February 15th and we'd have gotten consent, and we wouldn't have gotten it since the technical government was and couldn't propose a budget, we'd have a level of GDP that would be 3%, 4%, and maybe more, below what we have today. So it was in our interest to wait for the three quarters to come true to show that we have a 2.7% GDP growth, that it is the basis for GDP growth of 3%, which is the basis for all of these expenditures that we have. So it's connected to you. It is endogenous and when you improve your performance, it is in your interest to draw a line later on than before. Earlier if you draw a line, you have less. It's the same thing as borrowing for a loan. If you wait a few years, your salary will grow and you will have the opportunity to become more in charge and use your resources more efficiently. Another element that is very important. So we started planning the basic parameters of this budget over the summer, but it turns out we couldn't get that easy to get consent, because the government was elected only on August 11th. So it was illusory to expect. There was no parliament either, there were no institutions that could formally propose all these elements. When we got that confirmation, August 11th, we already had the key elements to start in the fifth, or fourth and fifth revisions, to get back on the path to the dynamics of the implementation of the three-year fund plan, and then two days after receiving the third quarter data, we started to consider the sixth revision, ended within two weeks and immediately thereafter in preparation of the parameters, i.e. the limit of this budget and, as soon as possible, it shall be completed. I know there will be a lot of discussion and comments about deadlines. We didn't have time. We've been working 24 hours a day since the day we got the parameters that are sustainable. We were able to maintain those parameters. This required additional iterations to bring income and expenditure into line, but we were able to propose a budget that offers such a kind of consensus and such a kind of compromise. It is up to you to evaluate in all elements how it is done and whether it is sustainable. My opinion is that we have found a good compromise, that those elements of costs that can wait for some future time, that we have reduced those elements where we could find savings, and that I am grateful to Parliament that it is not, 400 million, which parliament has accepted as a cost reduction, is not a crucial size, but it is a very good gesture of understanding and participation in that effort. I think it's very important to be. Many have not shown solidarity in this. So it's very important that everyone shows solidarity, that they participate in the effort we make to get out on clean ground and have a basis for future growth. Second, or third, we have offered the expected rationalisation in the public sector in the limits and we have offered the limits that include it in ourselves. We started with real parameters for the first nine months, or ten months, projected maximum monthly amounts by the end of the year, took into account current competitions and everything else, and offered limits that all should be sufficient to survive this year, under the quote, and to go out to the green branch, as the people say. A lot of people stood up to it, everybody wanted a lot more. I know it's much easier to work without restrictions, but you have to know that often, when you were a student, you have to live on a limited budget until you graduate. So is this. Until we finish this, until we become, until we get confirmation of the international financial markets that we're a country with an investment rating, that we have to bear it. It would've been good if we'd done it and kept it when we had it. Now we're coming out of a crisis and we're in a good way to make it happen. Look, when all the rating agencies admit it to you, it's just for us to keep a few more of these steps and get it, to valorize it. If we give up now, the cost is incredible. Just giving up on itself offers you a perspective that's not very pink. As for the investment, that's where we went from the projects. We've looked at projects that are under way, we've looked at projects that are important, we've looked at projects that help most to finish roads, railways, energy connections, etc., and we've been saving as much as we could, but we didn't want to cut the branch that we're sitting on. We're trying to find out, you're going to see a loan inside that relates to the completion of these projects, because you can't look for special projects to finish ten kilometers of highways, which, under the circumstances, remain unfinished. So we're looking for a project that's going to be methodically based, it's called funding results, so funding based on the results already achieved. You do something according to your methodology, I hope with progress in chapter 5 relating to public procurement, do the road and say – please refinance that part of the cost. They review, whoever funds the review and says -- it's done by these standards and by those standards, we recognize ten million per mile of that road, here you go, for 10 kilometers a hundred million you can get a refund of those costs. So at that point, we transfer it from the budget to an external source of funding and we can continue to solve the problems that we have in certain areas. Besides, our funding isn't a limiting factor. Our goal is to reduce the cost of funding. Our goal is to lower the cost of funding below the growth rate. That's very important. So it's a crucial element. If you have three elements in that public debt sustainability formula, one is the primary balance. If it is positive, that is, we have a primary surplus, it in itself reduces your interest in debt. If the cost of your interest is less than your economic growth, then you pay interest from growth and there's something left for you. If those two elements work for you, you're on a downward path and you're not on the way out of the crisis. We finally had elements relating to the active state policy, meaning subsidies, and here we increased subsidies in agriculture and sent a signal to all the ministries that lead to the realisation of subsidies, to try to improve the efficiency of subsidies, meaning that we do not maintain non-performing subsidies models, that's what we've been doing for years. There are real interests, real resistances, but our goal is not to cut subsidies, but to increase their efficiency. Part of the subsidy is pure capital expenditure, so part of the subsidies that are involved in loans are the same as the capital expenditures elsewhere, except that they are transferred to the Railways, the Corridors, etc. as a participation in the loan. Therefore, these are pure capital expenditures. It was supposed to be arranged so that the state pays for that participation, but I don't know why it's so arranged to transfer me the funds, and then they pay by those means. Part of the subsidy is the legacy of the past. These are your subsidies, we have three, four subsidies that are so. They're for the railroads. We make up for the pay gap. Others are coal mines, waiting for us as a problem that all countries and the EU have had and now they are no longer or intending to come out, but all countries in transition. So, we're not the only ones here, but we're not the only ones who have formulated a strategy to solve this problem so far. The third is subsidies to the Public Service. So they continue because they have so far failed to find a way to finance most of the funding from their own or their own sources. Part of the subsidy, which is stimulating, remains at the Ministry of Economy. The issue of efficiency is governance, not the issue of the amount. Therefore, you have the right here to propose methods that will make better and more efficient use of funds from the budget, to encourage the type of activity that will boost maximum employment, increase gross domestic product and growth and prosperity, or the standard of population. With this law parallel to the procedure goes a couple of follow-up laws. I wouldn't go into the details right now, but I would just say that we had to propose some things in the Budgetary System Act so that this budget could go through at all. So, first of all, it refers to the introduction of the next step in the programming structure of the budget. Step by step, we're approaching the programs, so we're looking at the whole cost-effectiveness thing. The best example is health care expenditure. There's only equipment in the budget. We don't see in the budget the part that applies to homes of health, clinical centres. So we have money to invest in a clinical center, but we don't see anything else. Programme budgeting will allow us to see it in full. We are taking steps to continue funding from Abe, for instance for clinical centres, what stopped was, and to end the Clinical Centre of Serbia in Belgrade, to continue the process for Novi Sad and Kragujevac as soon as possible, and to complete with Nisam a new generation of clinical centres and thus achieve... In order for that to make sense, we would have to know in the budget who will be the people who will use it, not to question them, but to know that they will effectively use everything that has been invested to provide the population with quality diagnostics and quality treatment. There is a supplement in the domain of fiscal rules. Our Budgetary System Act has laid down the limits and rules of indexing that have been frozen and the rules for determining wages. We want to keep all the changes we made in the public sector, i.e. continue to move along the mild path of reduction in wage rates. We're currently at 8.4%. In addition to all these increases we've suggested and included, we want to go down to 8%. We haven't defined exactly the year it's going to be, because we think it's a level that's sustainable, and we need to change it all in the Budgetary System Act in order for it to be harmonised. We want to extend the employment ban regime introduced in December 2013, so the employment commission, under the exception of the rules, is allowed to do so. This should have already gone to a new regime headed by the Ministry of State Administration, local self-government. It's a little late and that's why we're extending the existing regime until the end of next year to prepare it all and to have their documentary decisions next year where and how, instead of linear reduction, we know where there are surpluses, that we can do without a reduction. There are some questions I see already addressed, which are very justified. What happens to agencies that were founded ten years ago to supplement, or replace, the limited capacity of the state? These are very legitimate issues and this should be resolved in this way, that the agencies join together. We have an example of the Privatisation Agency. The moment that a mandate is fulfilled and the conditions of that agency are created should become an integral part of the ministries under which they are located or have a slowly one period, I say, going out. If they've done their job, they're no longer needed. We want to settle better administrative fees. We want, in addition to what I said, financial plans to include details of project loans and a whole series of other fiscal disciplines of local self-government units. So this year, for the first time in our instructions, we told the local people to apply something, which I could say in one sentence, to apply the same rules of fiscal behavior and consolidation at the level of cities and municipalities, as we apply at the level of the Republic. It is important that we expect cities and municipalities to behave in the same way. Not everyone will solve it the same way, but the approach is very important. We are more precisely editing the content of the final account. We have questions about the final account, i.e. the budget of the Republic. We took all our steps back in June, handed it over in procedure. We had two rounds of discussion on details and ironing some differences in methodology with the DRI. We expect it to be delivered very soon to the Assembly for the first time since 2003. So, we've done our part of the job, and now it's just a matter of finalization, decision-making and decision-making, or delivery of that final account. We have serious questions. The issues with us, since we have a one-year budget, are diverse – how donations are conducted, how one-year securities of value are recorded, because they are sold not at nominal value, but at discount value. So if you sell one out of 100 dinars to a year's worth of paper, he buys it for 95 and suddenly the accounting question is how it's run, whether it's done by 95 or run by 100. Since we have interest and capital in different places, if you have cash in the budgeting system, then you have a problem with how it's rightly managed. There is no such problem in other countries, and there is a problem with us because the interest is above the line, and this is below the line. Do you understand? And suddenly there's a difference. It doesn't look good for the DRI, respecting its methodology, to say that there's a difference, as if someone stole something, because the state has sold for a hundred something sold by world standards as 95, because at the end of the year it gets a table and there's interest included. It's just one example. We have a series of examples that we're trying to solve. Some of the provisions governing the work of the Fiscal Council, which define the space in the budget, are also being implemented, and we want more space so that we can put our budget planning imbalances in a better way. That's the part I wanted to point out here. The amendments to the Retirement Plan, the RFO and the SOVO plan are an integral part of the package, and without it the budget would not be complete. That's what I wanted to say in the opening statement. I know I skipped a lot of things, but I don't want to be long anymore. We will have the opportunity to answer your questions in the debate and to talk about all the other elements. Just more dates around the finalization. After submitting the draft budget to the Government, we had 103 billion additional requests. The only way to get rid of it was to do it through two iterations. It took a few critical days, because we didn't know how and we didn't want to do it over our knees. We had to have a procedure that would lead us to a solution. We came to a solution, but we spent a few days in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7923	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break until 1400 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I remind you and I invite you to attend the Special Session of the National Assembly that was scheduled earlier for 14.00 hours, and the debate on a joint principled and uniform search of the proposals for acts in points 1 to 7 of the agenda continues from 15.30 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7924	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws on the agenda of this session and I would like to inform you that we will be working tonight, we can agree, but by 21 o'clock, so we will proceed with the debate tomorrow, depending on how far we get today. Please let me get the list alone. A list to win, so I can call. Authorized, Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7925	Thank you. Honorable President, Honorable Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament. We have one of the biggest laws to pass, it's the Budget Act for the next 2017. The bill plans a relatively low deficit of 69 billion dinars. This is the third year, consecutive year, where the planned expenditures are nominally less than the planned expenditure of the previous period. This is where we should point out, since I'm a national MP, this year we've received a budget from January 1st to September 30th this year. I should commend the Ministry of Finance, because so far it's never been in practice, and this year we've got it. It is seen by this realization that we have or have had a surplus of 27 billion dinars, I think by the end of the year this surplus will increase, as Mr. Minister said on the Finance Committee. What would you say about this law? We think it's very real and it's well planned, as far as income and expenditure is concerned. Another commendation is needed to say that some new newspapers have been put in this budget, including major infrastructure projects, which were not previously included in the budgets. It's commendable. We think that this budget would be better planned if we put in those expenditures that are due to the bad business of our large public enterprises, but I think it will be done next year, if the budget planning is improved year after year. If we're talking about big, public, state-owned enterprises, I have to point out that, two years ago, there was a decision that no more guarantees would be made to cover the bad business of these large public enterprises, and at that time we commended it, and time proved that it was a good decision. Since these guarantees are 40 billion dinars in this budget, if we look at the budget or the planned budget for 2015, these figures were about 80 billion dinars, so that's where it's already halved. It was a good decision, the time has shown. Unfortunately, these expenditures remain, but they will slowly disappear from our budget or from our budget. As we know, for use, and unfortunately for the unused, credit and guarantees themselves, we pay interest. The interest, as an expense, in our budget is quite large, is in a very large number, here in 2017 there are about 134 billion dinars. It should have been said that these interest rates grew year after year. I watched in 2012, then there were 60 billion dinars, separated by interest, now it's 134 billion, but the same thing here should point out that the level of interest for 2017 is six billion less than for 2016. So here we also see an improvement of six billion dinars, which is also positive. Next item, big items in our budget are salaries and pensions. First of all, I'd like to talk to you about the salaries. As we have seen, in the budget system law, the next year's salaries will be increased by employees in education, police, military, health care and the judiciary, and in some other segments. That's about 10 billion dinars in our budget. So the increase goes from 3% to 6%, depending on the segment that the workers are talking about. This effect will a little lessen the rationalisation that should be done with the number of public sector employees, as we have seen here that they have budgeted funds for severances of about two billion dinars. I still have to point out that we have extended a year's ban on employment by public funds users. As I said, the second largest item in our budget is pensions and one positive thing, that next year we will increase pensions by 1.5%. That's not a big amount of money, when we look at it individually, it's seven billion dinars in our budget. He'd point out here, I don't know if you've been following, the relationship between the number of pensioners and the number of employees. We have asked for one statistic in Vojvodina and in Vojvodina cities, only two cities have more employees than pensioners, it is Subotica and Novi Sad. So this trend of the number of employees we have to increase in order to overcome this bad trend. If we look at subsidies, I would only point out what we think is our goal for years and we're fighting for it, which is subsidies for agriculture. Here we see, in this budget and commendation for the ministries, or for the entire government, that they have increased the agricultural budget of 43.8 billion dinars, which is 3.3 billion dinars larger than the last budget we had in 2016. The same praise, one of these 3.3 billion dinars 2.2 billion go to investment. This is four times more than last year. These investment funds are for incentives in livestock, for the purchase of equipment and machinery. We think it's important that farmers know in advance what they can count on and on what resources they can count on. Like I said, over the past few years, we've been saying that there's as much resources in agriculture as possible. This proposal provides for 5,000 dinars, per cow's throat and for farming calves for the tov, which so far has not been in the incentives and we think it's the same positive thing. The draft budget also envisions a 50% refund for the purchase of specialized tractors, and fruit and vineyard production, and 50% for refrigerators and processing facilities. In 2012, there was a list of farms where, unfortunately, 95% of the farmers at the time had tractors that were over 20 years old, not to mention vans, saucers, plowers and swingers. So they're very old. We think this is now a big and good thing that we have an incentive to get machinery. As for income, we see that this year's revenue side has been increased and the biggest income is, like every year, tax revenues. In tax revenues, we have the highest growth in profit tax of 28% and there is quite a lot of tax on the income of citizens 23.3% and we have an increase in customs duties in 11%. As Mr. Minister said, this increase in the part of the tax was based on an effective tax charge, which increased in 2016. It's also positive, but it should be improved a little bit more. Those measures that have been taken to curb the gray economy, the black market, have a certain effect, but unfortunately they are not very significant. Just to give an example, I live in the north of Vojvodina in a small town, in Sainta, when I go out to the market smugglers bring goods from Hungary, I can buy a kilo of cheese at that market cheaper than when I go to Segedin and go to the market at some big mall. So this is crazy. At least that's what I think. So here we have to do something to improve the gray economy, to squeeze down a little bit, and especially the black market. As for the funds for the AP Vojvodina, we are each year for Vojvodina to get its money, which is foreseen in the Budgetary System Act. We know that certain incomes are taxed, how much income is obtained on the basis of the income tax, based on the income tax of citizens, and here I would have one remark that on the basis of the profit tax, a large number of factories operating in Vojvodina are based in Belgrade. So the profit tax paid by factories operating in Vojvodina is unfortunately paid where the factory is based. So I appreciate businessmen having to open their seats in Belgrade, but it's not statistics, it's fact. We also said last year that we have not yet passed a law on the financing of Vojvodina, unfortunately the law amending the Law of Jurisdiction, but I think we will eventually come to that and that we will. Because, if I know correctly, the government of the Republic of Serbia's action plan to comply with the European Commission's recommendations, adopted at the government's session of 6 December 2012, stated in point 37 that the government is obliged to adopt a law on the financing of Vojvodina and will form a working group and prepare a draft. This mission has had the Ministry of Finance and Industry, and unfortunately this has not been done yet, but we think it's going to end sometime. As we know, the AP Vojvodina budget receives transfer funds and has the funds it invests, and there are capital investments. That's a positive thing. I'd single out a few capital investments that we've, in some ways, stood up for for years. In this budget, as in the previous budget, paragraph 300 million of dinars were mentioned for part of Corridor 10, as we call "Ipilon Krak", up at Subotica and this year is set aside. I think we should commend the Prime Minister for howling, and this year the work on the project started. It is evident that 300 million dinars were allocated in this budget, another billion dinars were planned for 2018, and 800 million dinars were planned for 2009. It should be pointed out here that this section of Corridor 10 began to be built in 1990 and only 11 kilometers or half of this road was done in 26 years. Another investment is the National Theatre in Subotica, which in the last two budgets was also one item of the budget. As of last year, a 35 million dinar item, this year we also held negotiations on this investment and was put in place, or we submitted an amendment, to put 111 million dinars in the budget. It is important to know that in 2006, a three-way agreement was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the AP Vojvodina and the city of Subotica itself. This is a three-way contract where they wrote commitments to finance this investment, 45% are carried by the Serbian government, 45% by the government of Vojvodina and 10% by the City of Subotic. The theater needs to know that it has a tradition of about 200 years. This building was built in 1854, in 1904 it was reconstructed, in 1915 it was partially killed in a fire, so it was reconstructed again in 1926, and since 2006 it has been rebuilding. I think, as we asked for an assessment that this project would have ended, it would have taken about a billion and 250 million dinars for the next three years. A statement by the province's government since 22 October this year, following a joint session of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the province government, said Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, said the following -- that the National Theatre in Subotica will also be completed, as well as that funding of different national minority institutions will be increased by funds compared to this year. I think if we look at the last year 35 million, and this year it will be 111 million, that the prime minister kept his promise. Like I said, we have a budget amendment for this investment. I hope the government accepts it. The next project is also important to us. It is the Palic project, where ten million dinars are invested in the tourism ministry's division. In the end, I would say that the SVM-PD Group will vote for this budget. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7926	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Peck, in a few sentences, I would like to respond to some of your findings, with thanks for the support you provide for the budget and with gratitude for the very correct co-operation we have with your many colleagues in the Serbian Government. I'm very proud of the fact and I'm willing to come here to explain it, not to say it myself in the studio, but to come to the National Parliament, to the National Assembly, to say it in front of everyone. With genuine pride, I can say that this is our best bet and the real-estate budget we've had. I have spent many years in this House, I know what we've been going through, so I won't pay particular attention to the remarks that the budget has arrived late, because, once in February, and in March, once on December 31st, we were asked by Mr Nikolic and I to let that budget pass so that we don't have temporary funding. But I guess that's what he's saying about those who make such remarks, like those who've been elected at the same time to the budget, so they didn't mind any of it and they're in the way today. Why is this the best-born and best-assembled budget? Because of those who have been saying that I am telling the truth that this is the lowest deficit foreseen by the Budget Plan, even with the plan, this is the lowest deficit in modern Serbian political history, and the lower deficit in 2016 than we had in 2005 and 2006, which they mentioned as the most successful year. In fact, I will easily explain it to you, with all the information I have brought, and I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will understand it very simply and easily. This is where our problems begin. I'm going to try to talk today about these pains, to get to Vojvodina, so people in Vojvodina can see that we're spending more money and I don't understand why we're doing things ourselves. I guess we only work because they're in accordance with the law, and I'm not sure that's what's best for us, and that's how we leave the most money to ourselves and our people. We predicted this year, don't forget, in the budget we discussed last year at this time, we predicted that the government deficit would be 122.1 billion. And that was what was foreseen as a good deficit for the IMF, as a way out of the crisis in the second year of the government's mandate and the second year of the government's programme with the IMF. We managed to achieve that we have today, and we have almost no income, I mean gross-domestic VAT 1.9 billion in December, so no income in December, and we have expenses, so we have a surplus of 31 billion, Nenada, if I'm not mistaken, on today. So, I'm talking about the government's budget. That wasn't the case, and here's why it wasn't the case. They tell you -- we had a 0.6% surplus. You know how we had the surplus? By calculating, they financed the deficit from privatisation revenues, and the privatisation revenues were 545m euros, except they didn't report it, and we also had up to 30m euros this year, we don't have them as revenue in the budget. We didn't sell anything big, we didn't privatize anything, we have what our usual incomes are. These are the most common value added tax, the highest, then excise taxes, then all other incomes, taxes, taxes and all that the state collects. So we've made a stable and solid and clear funding, which doesn't rely on so-called. one-time payments in “anof peations”. We don't depend on whether we sell one company or another. Your best example is 2006. In 2006, we had a small deficit, but now you will see how – formally. We had 362m euros in deficits. That's twice as bad as this year, but we had a relatively small deficit formally. And based on what? Based on the privatisation revenues that entered the general revenues of the budget, which amounted to as much as a billion and 900 million. The "Mobtel" Bogoljub Karic was sold for a billion and five hundred and some million. And it counted to you as income budget, and it was a regular income. And then what happened, people, to understand where and why our economic cataclysm begins? And then all the time, all the expenditure was made up of these revenues that weren't real and serious, so we had the expenditure side for 2007, especially in 2008, when someone thought of increasing the additional cost side, so we went into total disaster because there's nothing left to privatize. Since 2008, we have nothing to privatise, everything is at our level of 50, 60, million euros per year. There's no privatisation income. Pay attention. We have not included in the 2017 budget the revenues of "ap front paces" for airports, possibly, or anything to do about "Telecoma", EPS, we are not planning, but I am telling you – there is nothing in the budget. We're planning an airport. This isn't what we're planning. But there's no airport in the budget. We will not rely on it, and we will certainly, "ap front", without a concession, which goes at the annual level of payment for the "fi" tax, take more than 300m euros. There are no 300m euros in the budget. We don't count them on the income side, to cover the cost side, but we make them on healthy feet. For the first time we have done what we have done, I am going back to your question, Mr. Zoltan Peck, in this budget, and that is also commended by Paja Petrovic, which is never working, we are showing our expenditures for "Bor". We show that we have a difficult and bad condition, that we are unable to manage the Borom properly and that we will give a minimum of two billion until we resolve this issue in the first quarter of next year. It's a big and brave decision. That's never happened. We never had that in our budget. Everything that's been under our line, we're now putting it above the line. For the first time, we put project loans above them. We don't have this deficit we're talking about, 2.1%, 2.4% this year. Do you know why we have him? Why are we showing him? We show it because all the money we spend on corridors, all the money we spend on roads, all the money we've never shown, that we take as loans from the Russians, the Arabs, the Chinese, anyone, now we show them, and now people can see that we've spent that money. We're not playing with that anymore. Although we are also increasing salaries in the public sector and pensions compared to last year's budget, budget expenditures, i.e. budget deficits are projected to be almost double the amount, to 69.1 billion. But it's not 69 for us. If we had the same methodology, I'd have brought that table, like last year, if we hadn't been brave enough to put in project loans, we'd have had a proposed deficit here in front of you would have been only 25 billion. So, almost not to have a deficit, only 200m euros, but we've put everything we can put into place, because we're not going to hide anything. We want everything to be open and transparent. We want people to see what their money is spent on. We want people to see it going in that direction, and for the first time since someone asks – why goods and services are something more, something more, among other things, that we planned to buy weapons and tools, which you can see. I don't want to hide it from you at all. I don't want to go in any more detail. That, as you can see, is easily swallowed and easily mastered. We don't have any problems. That's why I'm proud of the proposed budget, because in 2016 we had an extraordinary execution, an extraordinary budget charge, income better. Paja Petrovic, someone who knows a lot more and someone who is much more strict than many of us, says next about this budget – says the budget is realistic, which means that incomes are conservative, we always make them lower than they are after that, expenditures are real. The amount of the deficit, according to Professor Petrovic, ensures that the public debt goes down. That's what the IMF says. That's what the World Bank says. That's what everybody says. They welcome the inclusion of project loans in the budget... The emissaries are getting it. ) It is usually brought from the house, so it would not be too burning to remember when you came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In all of this, do not forget that when we talk about expenditures, we have increased the minimum labour price by 7.5%, which means that all those who were in the factories in private, were in the state sector, which was much less, which were on the minimum, will have 7.5% higher income, that teachers and teachers will have 6% compared to what someone would say was taken, which was not taken because it was not even there, because it was financed from nothing, but from bonds that were expensive on interest of 7.5%, today, from January 1st and, of course, the future of our children, which Professor Vujović would say, have more and more because they had four or five plus six, quite anyway, and one and the other, but they have more on healthy grounds and every year will have more. So that's something that's true. Where our problems are, and you, Mr. Zoltan, are absolutely right, or should I say Mr. Peck, I'm sorry, please, I didn't mean anything by it, so we have problems in several companies, whether they're public enterprises, whether they're stock companies in which the majority of state capital is. So, as some once funded all their problems, and I'm going to go back in the end, by selling out capital first, and why, by selling out, by robbing state property, then selling property, and by financing the deficit, we no longer have anything to finance the deficit. And in 2008, the government was no worse than the previous governments, but had nothing to sell to finance the deficit, but had to be in debt. Today, we managed to sort it out, cut it off, and have no more problems like that. What's our problem? Our problem is RTB, our problem is Resavica, the problem is "Azotara", the problem is the ISK, the problem has been, and I hope that the negotiations are over, Antića, with "Petrochemija", because there are heavy negotiations and talks with the Russians, where we should pay off now by the end of the year 105m euros of old commitments. You know, 105 million euros is 13 billion dinars, when we talk about it. If we do, we don't have a problem with petrochemicals anymore. And they have good money in their account, as the EPS today has 500m euros. Half of the countries in the region have no 500m euros in account, and the EPS has, with all the problems we face there. Of course, problems are still in the EPS and the Railways, but I think we have a good dialogue with both trade unions and EPS and the Railways, that we can deal with that with workers and people. We need even more successful management, but I think both the IMF and the World Bank and everyone agrees that this is going better. As for Vojvodina, that's what I want to open up and discuss here in parliament, because all the time it's about 7%, and I'm prepared to tell you that this year we're giving away 7.3% of our income. To ask me how and why we've made all this papaziania, I can't explain it to you. What were our constitutional solutions, and what were we doing? I can understand the political reasons, but to have someone financially and economically cloud the water like this, because these are the money we give almost without obligation, that's all you have to think about. We give the province to further strengthen what we already pay. There are no primary essential obligations at the level of the province. We pay the pensions, we pay the roads, we pay the wages, we pay everything. We give money to pay for the province's institutions. No original income, no nothing. No matter how many times we repeat something about courtesy and decency, it's not enough, but I wish I heard an answer that would have something to do with economy and finance, not politics. As far as politics is concerned, I understand what political autonomy means a little bit better than you do. We're talking about finance and economics here, and no one's talking about eliminating political autonomy, or territorial autonomy that we're talking about here. Just don't talk to me about finance and economy, because I read it better and I understand it better, and I haven't heard any counter-argument from you. And here you have below the line, what I wanted to point out to you, what you can't easily see in the budget, we've singled out, you can see, 56 billion, and we've drawn under your line, and I can deliver it to you, Zoltan, what is it that we're still paying, it's on level 6.07. We're also giving you another 11 billion 499 million, a total of 67 billion 187 million, which is 7.3%. So, to this additionally brings you nine billion subsidies for agriculture, I'll tell you only the biggest sums, 465 million for the Batrovci border crossing, Project of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway - 850 million. That's not at all the "Psilon Leg" everyone's been talking about in this room. They never went to build it. We put out a tender, took out a domestic company and started doing it and building it. Then we give for building a new prison in Panchev 386 million. Then, we give 300 million for the border crossing of the "Sabotica South" loop – the Kelebija border crossing. Just to keep in mind, it is not visible to you at all in this, I just pulled out that something does not pay the wages, and what the Serbian Government directly gives to the province to participate. Because when you say – 45, 45, that's 90% of all our money, only we give them as funds so they can show up. That's what people in Serbia need to understand. So, 171 million, it's for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, in accordance with the Social Protection Act. It's all below the line. That's all you see in the budget, but it's not in that one branch, in two or three indents written, as you would expect. So, we've been trying, and I think I've made the best budget. People need to know that we did it with the IMF, not ourselves, that we were working with the biggest financial experts who were here, who were torturing us until the last minute for Resavica and our guarantees. What are we going to guarantee if they start looking for receipts like that, and if they generate a dramatic loss, by providing so many pensions, what are we going to provide for this kind of salary? For all of us, as you can see, we have a clean cover, in a very conservative way. I tell you in advance, and next year the results will be better than what you will vote here. It'll be better, because we're not racing to present something in the Assembly and be successful on television, but we're waiting for better results, and before that we're completely realistic, if you want even conservative. That's the whole point. If we succeed, next year and yes, it's our only problem, we generate bigger growth. The IMF estimate is 3%. It's not easy to do that, and it's gonna be hard to do that, and I'm still hoping that we can go significantly over it. Of course, for that we have a larger CAPEX, we have a 120% increase in capital investment that we show in the budget for the first time, from 43 billion to 92 billion. When we talk about billions, people need to know that one billion is 8.5 million euros, that it's huge money, that one billion is huge money when we talk about dinars. So, if we do all this, it remains with increased spending, we certainly expect to increase spending after increasing income for citizens both in the private and public sectors, even slightly increased pensioners, and we hope there will be more room for one-time payments to both pensioners and other citizens, as we have this year's case. Then I believe that we will have with investments and exports, on which we have founded growth, great growth this year. I'll remind you, it was planned at 1.2%, and will end up at 2.8% most likely. Next year we expect it to be even more significant. It gives us a chance to increase our salaries further, to increase our pensions, but that means, not because we're very good and smart, yes, we're disciplined and responsible, but that means we've done more. When we have 3% of the growth, people need to know that this means that we have created a billion and 100m euros worth of property, that we have done so much more in Serbia. It won't fall out of the sky, we have to create it. The last question that you, Zoltan, raised was the question of the gray economy. I don't know if you've noticed, we haven't included in this budget at all on the receiving side an increase in revenue that will arise as a result of further increased fight against the grey economy. No, because it's one hell of a fight. I'm going to give you an example of this morning, which has been terribly disappointing to me. I received a report from the Tax Administration, Dragana Markovic forwarded to the Prime Minister, for the cabinet, which looks at what the Tax Administration was doing in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Bajina Basta and I don't know which other places. Of the 70 objects, 60 objects do not fully record traffic through the fiscal register. The number of registered workers I'm not talking about. When you look at what the percentage is, why do we say that 30% of the total economy is? Because in the production sense and where foreigners work, there is a minimal “tax evasion, ” there is a minimum tax evasion. First of all in hospitality and in many other spheres in our country. We're obviously in no condition to fight even though we're fighting hard. Because with us consumers, there's a curse on the mother of the state at all costs, and people don't understand when they don't get a fiscal bill that they did, that every fiscal account they take that didn't help who they didn't take it from, because he's already included in the price, they're just going to have an extra profit on it, but that they're going to make the state that it won't be "Psilon Legs," that's why they won't have a good railroad, that's why they won't have a good trip, that's why they won't have an arranged hospital. Now, for example, we just have to pay for the low hospital equipment, Goldibore, 634 million, 634 million, I just need the equipment for the clinic to pay. It'll be state of the art, and equipment and... (People's MPs Milos Boskovic and Alexander Cabrai earn. Do you have a problem, more serious? Do you have a more serious problem? But I'm no expert on these problems to tell you. I'm an expert on everything, but I'm not an expert on that, believe me. That's some serious problem. There are other ministers I must call for help. No, they're going to teach me English now, but what can I tell you? I probably don't know, and they know. Yeah, what are you gonna do, it's like that. What is very important is that we continue to be disciplined, to be responsible, and if we have a growth of about 3% every year, over 3%, with such financial discipline, there is no fear for Serbia either. I believe that we can do this together, even though it seemed impossible for people, and I didn't expect to see such good results in the budget, I was hoping they'd be good, but I didn't expect them to be this good. We now have to raise credit activity, raise other sources of growth, along with the capital investments we talked about, which we finance, we should also help develop a private-public partnership and continue private investment, of course, through consumption and in all other ways. I believe we can do that. For this, we need support from people, support from people, support from workers and farmers, pensioners and all others, who need to know that nothing happens overnight, but that we have finally made Serbia's public finances healthy. On this point, I am grateful to people and to the Ministry of Finance, who have always warned and who have worked hard and day-to-day, you should know that, when the budget is being made, but also when the IMF, which works until 11 p.m., by 12 p.m., who are fighting for their country and who are doing this to have a different and better wallet, because the wallet of the Serbian state will ultimately depend on each of the citizens of Serbia. The healthier and better the Serbian state's wallet will be the fuller the wallet of Serbian citizens. That is why I am grateful to Minister Vujovic and all his associates, everyone in the government and all of you and all the citizens who have had the patience and patience to support one serious, responsible and I would say the programme that brings Serbia a future, a chance for our children, and that in no way and at no cost brings us back at the time of the failed privatisations that we financed the deficit, at the time of privatisations that did not serve capital investments, which were not for our development, but for covering the holes we made, because it was the easiest thing for us to make those holes, to dig them deeper. That is why today I am ready to say that this is the healthiest proposed budget, with the best set, the healthiest proposed budget, which means the final exit from the crisis of the Republic of Serbia and next year at this time, despite the fact that it will not be easy, we will not be in crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7928	The next speaker is George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7929	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Prime Minister Mr. Vukicu and the Honored Ministers, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will fully support this set of laws, as well as the 2017 budget. The reasons for this attitude are precisely because, people say, this is the first household budget after many years. It is always a way of thinking about Serbian citizens who wanted well to their country and their children that they should stretch as much as the leper is long. The host in Serbia lived and worked consciously that only a well-wrought person could live with honor and thus raised his offspring by example for centuries. This attitude towards the budget shows that Serbia has taken a stable step to get out of the living mud that they dragged us into by 2012 and that at the last minute, we have been torn away from the danger of a sinister robbery privatisation that brought Serbia back to the level of the early years of the previous century. It is a special honor for us from the Socialist Movement to have in this term also entrusted our president with leading the ministry of care on the most vulnerable and most sensitive categories of the population. We are sure that this honor and great commitment is earned by good work in the previous term, so that, for this very reason, the 2017 draft budget, the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs participates in the overall expenditures of the Republic of Serbia with 12.7%. Although the source of budget revenues is slightly lower than in 2016, the circus for four billion dinars or 2.8%, we are sure that all the projected tasks will be completed and not only will no social giving be reduced, but new benefits will also be provided for Serbian citizens who are being taken care of by the ministry. A better organisation, more efficient by carrying out measures to curb the grey economy, by increasing employment, by introducing black-to-legal work, especially by effectively engaging in labour inspection, has created a space to plan an increase of 2.9 billion dinars in addition to this reduction in consumer rights budget. The biggest increase is in the planned funds, as you can see from the budget, in the rights to protect families and children and in social protection. It is also clear that there is also an increase in resources for employees' rights in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy by around 150 million dinars. I will remind Serbian citizens that it was this government that ensured that workers who because of the robbery-privatised enterprises that ended up in bankruptcy of earnings fees, precisely for one reason – because workers are not responsible for the criminal privatisations organised by the then-owning lobby that left workers without jobs and hard-earned salaries. All of this creates good conditions that, with the payment of the parental allowance, plans are made for a one-time payment of pausals for the purchase of child's equipment, this as a compensation for the ever-ending walk from the counter to the counter for the refunding of VAT for the purchase of food and equipment for babies. As part of the right to children's allowance, it is noted that the planned funds are to pay off another type of child's allowance for children of primary and secondary age who will regularly attend and finish the previous school year. When it comes to children with developmental disorders and children with disabilities, this right is also planned for them under even more favourable conditions, so as to increase the censorship of children's allowance rights, as well as the increase of its amount. The amount of expenditure marked as expenditure for other purposes, including planned investment investments, is 9.7 billion or 7.1% of the proposal for the ministry's budget. This will create conditions for a more efficient provision of public services, create conditions for building buildings from the ministry's resources, in the principle of joining several services in one place, in one facility, branch units of the Labour Inspectorate, Social Protection Service, National Employment Service branches, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and according to the needs of a specific unit of local self-government and positive experiences from Obrenovac in which this project is first and realised. The way to realise all the plans is to create a social chart of the Republic of Serbia for better and more accurate consideration of the socio-economic status of citizens who apply for the exercise of rights in the domain of children and social protection. Nothing less important than this is the fact that this creates preconditions for the adoption of two new system laws – the Financial Support Act for the family with children and the Social Protection Act. New legal solutions should further extend the scope of rights and include all mothers who are in employment, who are having children, women from the village, women who are employed by different types of employment contracts. For the first time, women of the owners of the agricultural households and women of the agricultural insurance company will be able to make compensation for maternity leave, which is of immeasurable importance. Special attention is paid to children with disabilities who receive a child's allowance. The newspaper is the introduction of a direct payment of the rights of users. Subsidisation of the stay of children from families of beneficiaries of financial assistance in preschool institutions. New legal solutions should pay even more attention to children who are at risk of moving out of their biological families, which is unacceptable especially in the situation if the risk of moving poverty is. When it comes to labour activation, labour users of financial social assistance, the essence of the legislative proposal and the framework is that for the first time, I underline myself to people who are able to receive this type of help offer employment. In any case, such newspapers will not and cannot be negatively reflected on children and other working incompetent family members and their material position. Dear Prime Minister, I would especially like to remind myself and all of us, that during the previous months, this house has created conditions for Serbian citizens to experience both justice and satisfaction by adopting laws in the area of justice, by selecting new judges, by working to create conditions for the independence and independence of the work of the prosecution and the judiciary. Conditions were created to fill Serbia's budget in the coming period with confiscation and sale of assets of those who robbed Serbia through privatisation. Those who left behind a wasteland in the municipalities they ruled with the property of those who picked subsidies but never reaped. Those who have left their cities without water, blocked public enterprises, and have come up with ways to illegally launder budget money, illegally pay for receipts and be so bold that they even speak publicly in this house. Only these amounts are enough for every child in Serbia to get free books and snacks in the next 100 years, students of the scholarship, and for all those who do not work today to get a job. And that those who have destroyed Serbia get deserved free long-term accommodation in specialised prisons where they will never be able to do any harm to anyone again. Serbia expects to see it and experience it, and this will be the final proof after a successful economic recovery that this is the country that has recovered and fought all kinds of organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7930	Thank you. I'll have to delete the list, and the next speaker will be Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7931	Just to thank you for the remarks and things and for having been particularly noticeable, probably because he's a party colleague, it's the ministry, but it's true that we've done a lot of work here and we've tried to preserve social rights and rights from the domain of social protection, always at the level at which they were, and then they're certainly not small, given the separation that we're doing from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I called in a few to comment on what your conclusion was. He sounds nice and seems to me that every man who pursues justice and who seeks some society where results would be based on work and wealth was based on work and not on robbery and political ties, so that everyone would like to hear it. You have to bear in mind that we have a lot of things here that you just can't bring to that level that we're all happy and satisfied and because of the lack of efficiency of our judicial authorities, but also because many processes, possible processes, i.e. raising an indictment or indictment, the time for this is up, or obsolete. I want to tell you, since it's been talked about how we've had great successes in certain years where privatisation incomes actually funded our deficits. I'll just read you what it looked like, and then he tells you they had a surplus in, say, 2006. "Mobtel", a billion and 513m euros. You have "Mitrosrem" sold to the consortium DSD "Tobako" 15 million 150,000. Mile Jerkovic, that's the expert they sold everything they came to for small cash, for the state, probably big cash on the other side, so now he's talking about, that's what other witnesses talk about against him, etc. Who knows, it's in court to finally investigate who took all the money, 14 million 57,000 euros. HIP Azotara Universal Holding a.d. consortium, don't let me tell you how much this hellish and hellish cost us, 13 million and 100,000. Company for the manufacture of rubber and chemical products Trajal Corporation Kruševac, that is fine, 12 million and 120,000. Then, "Danubius" Novi Sad for "Delta agrar", 10 million and 750,000. Panchevo, wheat, leguminosis and olives, 7 million and 220,000. Alexinac, "Slavisa Puric" 7 million and 116,000, is the maintenance of electricity facilities, BETONJERKA Alexinac. Social hospitality tourist company "Sloga" Valjevo 5 million 833,000. Vršački Vineyard, “Wine Product Choka” 5 million and 700,000. I'm just saying that all of this income, it's not even value added tax, it's not profit tax, it's not excise, it's not even customs revenue, it's not even in the sense that any of the public enterprises are paying us because they have extra income, or they have a better cash form than expected, and the state is asking for it, these are privatisation revenues. When it ran out, so that people in Serbia could understand, when it ran out of privatisation revenues, the opportunity to finance our own deficit, then we started to fast-track in debt since 2008. That's why it was time to stop with it, to go into discipline, to incomparably greater responsibility, to stop it, and now we've done it. That's what's important. What's also important and what we can boast about, Mr. Komlenski, is the next fact. We have failed, and you will never be able to end justice, and regardless of the attempts of many tycoons to influence politics today, influence individual presidential candidates in the announcement or election winners and finance a lot of what is happening, it is not a problem, but these people are no longer leading Serbia or the government of Serbia, nor affecting its decisions. That's what makes the difference. That's what a big difference is, and that's the difference I'm very, very proud of, as well as the results I'm talking about, because I think a total of privatisation revenues relative to these billions and 900,000 while there's still nothing to go through, while there's nothing to sell, and I'm not against privatisation, I'm against unsuccessful privatisation, I'm against thieving privatisation. We didn't have anything this year, so we had, I mean, 30 million in total, if we had 30 million. So our deficit is not financed from privatisation incomes, it is financed from healthy, most important, healthiest sources for one country, and these are known tax forms and this is a sustainable form of financing of a deficit or lowering deficits. Otherwise nothing was sustainable, this was just a moment. It's only a matter of time before everything like a balloon breaks and you all know it in this room, except we're all acting silly like it wasn't happening. And I was wondering how it was possible that there was such a difference between 2006 and 2009. Then you see, we are guilty of something we did in 2008, but it's our fault that, when we had a lot of capital and a lot of property, we didn't invest that money where we were supposed to, but we didn't do anything new, but now we're going to spend that money, in the sense that we're being domestically and responsibly, that people need to know, it's a historical fact, it's a historical fact, which will remain recorded in textbooks and political economies, and I would say in history at all, if you will, state and rights in these areas. I believe that now we're going, ever since we entered the arrangement and the program with the IMF, and we haven't thrown them out like in 2011 after a month, we're going into a period of responsibility, stability and the question is whether we're going to keep it or we're going to go back to a period where we're going to make so many holes that we're never going to be able to put our wallets together again, we're going to staple whatever you want, and that you can give money to the people, that the people can survive, that they get what the people have earned. Don't forget, we still pay our pensions with about 40% of the budget, and two years ago we paid even 58% of the budget. The bigger taxes and contributions we make, the less we pay out of the budget. That's why it's important that the more people we hire, because every pensioner knows it, pensioners are terribly responsible, they're wonderful people, they've seen and they're most excited about hiring young people, among other things, not because of themselves, they look at the future much more than many of us who are younger. They look to the future, but of course also for themselves, because they know that every tax charge and contribution, when someone is hired to go to the Pension-Invalid Fund and that we have less budget to pay and that pensions are incomparably safer and that we can think about increasing them. That is why we care about Serbia's economic strength, Serbia's security. I don't have any more fears, I just have a desire to achieve as many sources of growth as possible and what I would call for, and that would end this part, and I'll answer more in the future, so, because it seems to me, I've brought out what are essential things for this budget. What we are proud of and what is the essence, which you can always look at in one budget, which is spoken of by Shoble, the famous and most successful European finance minister, the German finance minister -- it is important that your deficit never goes into investment in capital projects, that your deficit is never higher than capital investments. Look, we are about 570m euros in deficits, 570m euros, and our capital investments are at a level of 750m euros. So, even if we take something from the financial market, we won't increase public debt by a percentage compared to GDP, so public debt will continue to fall. But by taking money, we invest in the future and for our children, because we leave roads to children, we leave railroads to children, we leave airports to the children. That's how we invest in the future. So, we respect the rule of the great German Minister Shoble that capital investments, government, state, must be greater than deficits. You can see that in this budget, and it seems to me that for the first time and in the plan we have shown it and presented it in a very conservative way, and I believe that the results in the budget itself will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7932	I'll read two for the list, 'cause people come in right away. Dubravka Filipovski, followed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7933	The President-in-Office of the Government, the Honorable Vice-President and Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, has completed the planned budget for 2017 to fulfil the basic task of fiscal consolidation through the retention of certain measures introduced in the previous period, with selective and measured discounts with restrictions on pensions and salaries in the public sector. The budget for 2017 is well measured and planned and is the best in the last few years. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this draft budget in the voting day. We know that certain measures are economically and politically unpopular, but we are in favour of them, because at the same time they are in the interests of the state, but also in the interests of those citizens who do not support them at the moment. The Social-Economic Council has given its support to this budget. The fiscal council, I'd say, in the last few years I've had the slightest objection to this budget. Economists, and among other things you, Mr. Vukic, and quoted Professor Jovanovic, pointed out more than ever that because of the planned GDP between 3% and 4% for next year, Serbian citizens will feel a more significant improvement and this is very important news for Serbian citizens. At the beginning of my presentation, I'd like to say a few facts. The budget for 2017 gives us a clear picture of the structure of income and expenditure, so that the total revenue for 2017 is 1,092 billion dinars, and total expenditures are 1,161 billion dinars. Total expenditures will be higher by 69.1 billion dinars of income, the lowest budget deficit in the last six decades and its projection for next year is 1.7%. The budget for next year is also planned based on the forecast that GDP growth will be 3%. You say it's going to be up to 4% at the end of the year, and inflation is about 2% to 4%. Why am I saying all this? For two very important reasons. The first was because three previous years were particularly difficult for Serbian citizens. The deficit in 2014, when we had the floods, was 7.1%. Already in 2015 it was halved and at the end of 2015 it was 3.5%. At the end of this year, it is 2.1%, and 1.7% is planned for next year. Another very important reason is because we had a permanent deficit reduction by applying and implementing two measures. The first is a reduction in wages and pensions, as well as a reduction in public sector employees, and the second is a good tax charge, which has been constant over the past few years, and I would commend that tax administration of Serbia. It is very important that there has been no rebalancing in the past few years, which means that the budget is well planned, realistic and sustainable. That's very important, because in the budget you can predict whatever you want, but if you don't do it, then we're all in a common situation. The new budget also plans bigger investments, showing the development side of the budget. And what I particularly want to point out is the fact that after a few years of consecutive but yet controlled growth, for the first time this year we have a reduction in public debt. It's minimal, of 0.7%, but at this point it's very, very important and it gives hope that it's going to be smaller and smaller in the coming years. I therefore find it very important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia controls foreign exchange differences, given the growth of the dollar, which is a plan to reduce the currency difference in public debt payments and on the basis of which parameters they can predict. In addition to salary increases, the budget envisions a reduction in public sector wages from about 8.45% to 8%. My question for you is – what other laws do we lack in terms of better and more precise definition of pay indexation rules, and when will the law on payment classes come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? In the draft budget in the category relating to project loans, which has become before, but it is for the first time specified how many loans we will implement in each financial year, I consider it very important that our control role of Parliament and, from the point of view of Parliament's control role, two very important things are introduced in this budget, these are the additional elements of transparency and the additional element of the minister's obligation to regularly report on project implementation in order to have a clear overview between what we have promised and what has been achieved. It is therefore important to reduce the amount of funds agreed and not withdrawn and used and that we here in Parliament know transparently what the reasons for this are. And my colleague Zoltan was talking about the gray economy. You've also pointed out, Mr. Prime Minister, that are steps in the coming period to reduce the grey economy. I would say that in the previous year there was increased control and not reporting workers, and at all in the gray economy, but only because of the citizens of Serbia I want to say that every product that has been paid, and no fiscal bill has been taken, we are thus damaging health care, we are damaging pensioners, we are damaging education. Our big chance is agriculture. This year in the budget is 8.11% more funds than in 2016. Agricultural production should be encouraged as our great opportunity and the distribution of subsidies should be better controlled, which is also one of the three basic functions of parliament, and I will point out one example from 2015 on this better control of subsidies in the area of agriculture, and it concerns farmers. In 2015, we had 22 billion subsidies for 317 owners, and only three billion of which were given to farmers. We know that, according to data, 25% of women in Serbia are involved in organic production. So, the subsidies that have been increased for 2017 by this budget need to be a little bit more controlled. There has been great resistance and criticism over the Agricultural Land Act, because of the question of who is using our greatest natural resources and who is getting rich at it. The whole story is about agricultural land that the state benefits from all this. In addition to this, the information that you, Minister Nedimovic, recently stated that we have 27m euros more than the rent of agricultural land this year. Based on this year's budget plan, I would say that the challenges and risks of rationalising the public sector are that the risks are within the largest companies that employ over 20,000 workers, such as RTB Bora, Azotara. It is quite clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly seeking solutions for these companies, and Minister Vujovic said today, in his budget interpretation, to me one very important thing, that strategic importance is one thing, and sustainability is another, and that is what needs to be taken into account. What I find very important is the reforms in the field of education. My opinion is that GDP growth from 3.5% to 4% in the economy cannot be followed properly without reforming education. Minister Sarcevic has been in the past few months, I would say, what will be the plan of the Ministry of Education in this government and we are following the plan that you put forward in the area of education reform and we really believe in it, because we believe it will bring about what is necessary momentum in Serbia's economy. What I would like to point out to Mr Vujovic, as finance minister, and what I don't think he is aware at this point, is that he will remain remembered for the inaugurated birth-responsibility budgeting. Why did I say you weren't aware at this point? Because implementation of the gender-responsible budgeting by the end of 2020, but you were very aware that last year, together with our parliamentarians, with the non-governmental sector, with international missions, we are introducing such an important thing in the Budget Law and the Budget System Act. It is such a strong message, a message of encouragement sent to Serbia, involving 51.7% of women living in Serbia. I believe that gender-responsible budgeting will have results as it does in the state of Austria, because birth budgeting in Austria is part of the constitution. For now, we are monitoring the application of gender-responsible budgeting. There are many positive examples, Minister Vujovic, in the application of this part of the Budget Law, but there are many problems. So I would like the Ministry of Finance to give us all the information we need about this and that we are very actively involved in its implementation over the next few years. At the very end of my presentation, I would like to point out that I am particularly glad that Belgrade shines more beautiful than ever, which is decorated earlier than any other year, which tells us that we are a serious metropolis that attracts tourists and is in favour of a large number of hotels that are being built. Once again at the end of my presentation, I want to ask you another question, and the question concerns entrepreneurship and the effects that we will have in this year because I think we should learn from countries in the environment. Perhaps the freshest example for us is Slovakia, which has also presided over the EU over the past six months, and 99% of Slovakia's economy's backbone accounts for small and medium-sized enterprises and 75% for up to nine employees. It also encourages Mr. Han's visit to Serbia today and his statement that we will open another chapter next week. Once again, I would like to say that in the day of voting, the NS parliamentary group will support the draft budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7934	Thank you. After the prime minister's reply, I will give the word to Cedomir Jovanovic and then Nenad Canak goes, and now I have to delete the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7935	A few questions to answer, with gratitude for my support, as it seems to me, according to what my phone, the 1997 model, can catch, I see that some have organized, as it is said, Zorana, they've made... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Where's that 1993 model of yours? That's the one I lost, Vojislav. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He cost 12,000 marks. Yes, Vojislav bought me my first phone, but I lost it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I didn't buy it, but I got it on a gift, so I gave it to you. Someone took it from me, anyway. He wouldn't buy it ever. Okay, but let's move on to this serious part. Since they say they've made a whole network of "Wolfs, dictators" because they probably think they're very brave, dangerous, so someone's afraid of them, I didn't say it for myself, I said it for you, because they make fun of you, too, Mrs. Filipovski. They also think that there are a lot of smart men in this House, but what can you do? It's a picture and an opportunity for a coward who's always told you what they're going to do to someone, and when that person shows up, then usually the leg gets there and they don't know where or how much faster they're going to get away, but what do you do? So, as you can see, I'm not at all fascinated by their terrible phenomena and fear that around me, with wisdom and wisdom, is spreading. So, you're right, both trade unions and employers supported this budget, and I don't think that both of them are so, not only correct, but good words from both Orbovic and Atanakovic and from all the others, we couldn't hear about the budget, which is commendable and which says that both of them understood the way the state put together this budget proposal, which is very important. It is true that we have problems with further reduction of public sector employees, especially that problem we have in where it is probably the most difficult or we have not engaged enough. Of course, it's about education and health care. In public enterprises it goes better, except in those public companies where huge revenues are, because there's no one for a living who won't let anyone younger come, but only to stay and if he can't retire, but to extend two or three years, in any way, because it's terribly necessary, to just keep a high salary and all other receipts. When I talk about salary, the average salary at the Ministry of Defence is, for example, only 42.500,00 dinars, but the total average income is as much as 58.000,00 dinars, if I'm not mistaken, Djordjevic. So, that's all I'm telling you that receipts and wages aren't always the same. Also, am I wrong about the budget assessment, because you said God will help us and who will help us. We've been wrong for the past two years, but we've always made mistakes in the same direction we've never been wrong before, we've always underestimated our incomes and overestimated our expenditures, and before, it's always been the case that we underestimated our expenditures, and we overestimated our incomes. So, it would have been good if we had made a mistake this time, and right now, I expect we were wrong, but on that good side, if our deficit was even lower than it was last year, and this year we didn't have any need for any rebalancing, no money transfer, no problems for the first time since I didn't know how much I didn't have that statistical data. So, many, many years have passed without having had any budget rebalance. Also, you said what it takes to pay. It takes a pay grade law, and we won't be able to bring it in easily. Everyone's against it. They're all against everything, because someone would have more, but someone would have less. But the one who had less wouldn't even be alive to allow it. I'll give you an example. If you want to equalize your salary to a driver in Belgrade or Vranj, a secretary in Belgrade or Vranj, which I think would be healing, it would keep our people in Vranj, keep our people in Leskovac, keep our people in Prokuplje. You can't, you'll have a demonstration for the rest of your life of all those employed in Belgrade, and they'll come out and tell you something that's true. They'll say, well, your life costs are higher in Belgrade. If you tell them, so no problem, but go to Vranje there is cheaper, he'll say, and you make me, you're like this, you're like this, and I don't know what. So whatever you do is never good. So we don't have the power to bring it that way, even though we're going to have to bring some together and try to sit down together to do it. It is a requirement from the World Bank and the IMF, a requirement that should heal Serbia, in particular to strengthen Central Serbia and Vojvodina, which have lower revenues than Belgrade, lower incomes from Belgrade, but whether we will all have the strength together. I knew by now we didn't have any. Well, Maya, if they tweet, they don't have to yell when they tweet, when they tweet enough to push three buttons, they don't have to yell when they tweet, I guess it has to be heard when they tweet. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is because of the phone. There's plenty of time after you get your turn. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Ko and Tom. () You say - talk about increased control. We can't do it easily without the support of the whole society, we can't do it without the support of all the media, and we didn't have it. I'll remind you of the Nis case. Remember when the IRS came in and they said, we closed, I don't know 15 restaurants. I don't know, maybe I was wrong, maybe it's ten, maybe it's five. It doesn't matter. They gathered together, gathered the employees and said now we're demonstrating. They had full public support with transparency, we want control, but not repression. What kind of repression? Did you issue a fiscal account or didn't you issue a fiscal account? If you haven't issued a fiscal bill, you know what the legal penalty is, which is usually minimal. Unfortunately. And who actually gives them the right to do it and that's why they do it. But it's not a problem. I understand them. I understand those people. Maybe it happened to someone by accident, it's a rule with someone, and it doesn't matter. I understand them, they fight for themselves. But I don't understand all of us, I don't understand all the media in this country who said, uh, did you see they're right. And why are they right? So they don't pay us for kindergarten, they don't pay for school, they don't pay for kindergarten and school for their kid, they don't pay for the trip, because that 20% or 10%, if whatever hotel you want to take, that's where it goes for this budget, that's where it goes, so we can pay for all of this, so that Milia in Srlig can get a hall of 1,000 seats. 'Cause every time I get caught up in the O.R., the O.R., it's not a joke. It's a joke. And everyone does it in Serbia. They all come to me, they all send me a request and say we don't have a gym. And then I send a memo to Vanji and send it to other ministers, and I'm counting, so, well, that slow room can't cost, I'm counting more than 100,000 euros. We'll find that much money, and then I see that they've imagined a slow hall that doesn't cost below 600 and 700 grand. But then, so wait, it's a monument in Srlig, it's a monument here, but these all people, and it's all great and it's all fine, but these people have to understand that it's funded from taxes, that it's funded from actions, from customs and everything else, and that's taking it away from our people directly. If someone doesn't understand, then we're in trouble. We don't have any factory of that guy with 20,000 employees, RTB 6,000, so you know and don't worry, little does anyone know. They give me lectures every day, and they don't even know the fifth part of what you know and what you say. RTB's about six, six and a half thousand, Azotara's about 1,000, MSK's at your level of 550. We don't have the giants we used to have, because in the meantime they've all been torn apart, reselled, sold out, and so on. Of course, there's been another time where you have to act differently. For one thing, you're absolutely right, and I don't know if we have the strength and I say that in front of the minister of education, who I believe, who has enormous energy, and who is a very capable man, but who I believe will focus more on these strategic things, and less on losing on the daily level for what comes as problems. Let's let it go, we'll handle these day-to-day things, get rid of those big ones, because we can't have sustainable economic development unless we go into the major reforms of our education and education system. There isn't. We can handle it next year, but in 2018, we don't have any progress. That's what people need to know. For us it is therefore the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Health that sees the standard you reach, but the Ministry of Education is certainly the most important ministry for the future. Have we made these big changes so far? We didn't. Am I happy about that? I'm not happy or happy. Will we have the strength? I don't know. Because you have to bear in mind that it will require certain painful things. You to us, back to how society concludes, imagine closing up a country school in a village that has a student. And what school is it in America, how many times is America bigger than us, 50 times the population, doesn't have any schools with one child? Because they have their own buses and they don't want to pay for the fuel, they don't want to pay for the heat, they don't want to pay for the light, they don't want to pay for a student's teaching staff. But if you did it in Serbia, then you'd be a criminal and a villain. And that's impossible to endure, economically unsustainable. Instead of having vans and buses to take the kids and bring the kids to that school, we can't accept it. Why? That's because we're spoiled. Because that's how we learned it. And we're throwing money away. And you all know in the O.R. that we're throwing money away. And you all know I told the truth. And the first time that happened, our village ran out of school after 730 years. Of course I've gone too far and of course I've spoken metaphorically, but I'm telling you what people say. That was the same thing with the highway and the oak and everything else. And so on and on. And that is something that is a serious problem. When you talked about it, I don't know if you noticed in the budget, I'm sorry, I couldn't track Vujovic's presentation this morning and what happened yesterday, I don't know if you noticed, for the first time we separated a billion, 10m euros more, than 10m euros we separated directly for the IT sector of money we didn't separate last year. It's brand-new money. I don't understand myself too much how and in what ways we think we're funding, because I invited Anna to this meeting with those kids I had, clinics, people of 20, 30 and 30 and change years, so who's just geniuses who know that job, I listened to, and I asked how much money we needed to make out for those things. I asked if that's okay, we talked to our people and set them up as you see extra big money, because we want to keep these people here, so we don't go to Sofia, we don't go to Bulgaria and we don't go to the West. It's not easy, by the way. This kind of migration exists from this part of Europe, it exists from other parts of Europe. Poland thus ran out of three million, four million people, Romania without two and a half, three million people and many others. Many more people have gone to the West, although they are members of the European Union, than they are in Serbia. That's why we have to try to protect them and protect them and stay here. I believe that we will have the strength to have that number of people going away, you can never stop it to the limit, people choosing their future in today's world, in the global world, as it is, everyone can live wherever they want, easier to get to that place than ever before, but our goal, above all, is to keep central Serbia and undeveloped parts of Vojvodina, to have a population and to invest as much in education and education as possible. I believe and hope that we will have your support in this, and thank you for not being ashamed to say some commendable word about the Serbian government, although I do know that many on the other hand would do so, that it would politically suit them, that they do not have personal ambitions, quite differently. Thank you for becoming unpopular of anything positive, so I was just waiting for Goran Bregovic, who said he was voting for Vukic or I don't know who but to accuse him of having no idea about music and having no idea about anything else, because whoever said he was supporting the government he doesn't know anything about. Only those who have never achieved anything in life, spit on Vukic or say something bad against the government are you in, these quasi elites etc. That's why they're defeated, because people are no longer interested in pseudo elites, they're not interested in quasi elites, they're interested in the people, they're just a man, they're interested in the people, they're interested in the people, they're interested in the people, they're interested in the people, they're interested in the people who talk to them, they're interested in the people who see them working in their interests and for the good of the state, not in the good pseudo-elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7936	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7937	Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the government, Mr. Vukic, is an important debate, not because the most important annual law is adopted, but because of the political situation in which the country is located. Both the government and the opposition prefer to discuss the economy. The opposition because, at first glance, the economy is suffering everything, you know, you're familiar with these platforms from the way you've acted in your own time, and from the way that part of the opposition behaves today -- we're going to hire people, we're going to pay and pension back, we're going to increase, we're not going to give. On the other hand, the government likes to talk about the economy because, from its perspective, the economy is as clear as physics. All the adjuts are in your hands. When I say it, I don't say it because I need to praise you. Unfortunately, I do politics in a country where it's abnormal to be normal. The deficit of 1.7%, it's the sacrifice of those pensioners who lost 10% of their pension not because it was your whim, but because, I can say, no one was ready to listen to LDP ten years ago when we pointed out the problems the country was facing. It's the victim's measure and that retired pilot who returned 5,000 dinars and said I don't need it, I want my 300,000. But I can't build on that LDP policy because I know there wouldn't be that 5,000 if it were continued the way it was done in the past. If we talk about these 1.7% budget deficits, which is, in fact, the only criterion we can discuss today, then it's the victim measure of doctors in the health system, teachers in the education system, officers who guard us, who are left without an allowance and without a diary, so when they travel with us in Serbia as security, they don't have a meal for themselves, and they're working and they're suffering and they're there to sacrifice. So we have to respect something like that. Therefore, I cannot treat that budget exclusively as something that is the product of your policy, so since I am your political opponent, then it deserves every criticism. You're quoting Shoeble, I'm glad to hear it. I fought for it for years. Unfortunately, it was not so often quoted and respected by German politics. More often here, they acted as if they were told by Shyoga, Russian Emergency Minister, now the defence minister. So when we talk about the budget, that's where it should be fair. You've done a good job, and you and your finance minister, your government, and above all, the citizens of Serbia. The private sector that, with 15% lower salary on average, raised its productivity, increased exports and thus made it possible for what, I think, to be in the focus of our conversation now, is the realisation of a policy that is wider than the economy. That's why I want to talk to you about politics. I don't mind other topics. We can talk about Bora, we can talk about Railways, we can talk about Resavia. Well done for Sartid, but we sold it once in 2003 for 30 million, so it was a big political problem. I don't want to act the way you and a lot of people in this room did today. Better the Chinese took it than the state bleeds 200 million at least a year. I want to ask you something else, Mr. Wolfie. Who's going to realize this budget? What government? Who will be the president of this government? What parliamentary majority? Because the economy doesn't depend on democracy. In one-party systems, the economy works great. We have so many examples around the world. The economic perspective depends only on the sustainability of one concept and that is what today is about me. Are you going to run for president of the state? Are we going to have parliamentary elections? Now we need to know how many party strategies talk about the necessity of pro-longing those decisions. I want to know, Mr. Wolfie, are you aware of the risk involved in our political life? I know very well that you know what I'm talking about. The second question is why you decided not to talk about it. I don't want to risk the future of this country again because of the policy we have together here in the Assembly. Are you sure there's no room for another democratic front here? Are you sure there's no new Siegelich? And that the European future of the country that depends crucially on, Mr Vujovic, is the realisation of your budget, that it is safe. That's what the LDP is interested in. We can tell each other a lot, but I think this is a situation where we have no right to sacrifice anyone more than ourselves. Too many times the country died because of this kind of political blindness. We entered 2003 because we did not recognize and understand the situation in 2002. This time today, even though the circumstances are completely different at first sight, if we compare the degree of mutual understanding, the ability to agree on anything, is very reminded of that time then. You've managed to come with a new economic policy in the Assembly, you've changed your attitude towards the budget. The first time you put something in it that hasn't been put in yet. OK, we understand that Serbia has never been so autonomous in financial terms that it can bring a budget without consulting international financial institutions, what can we do, the sixth revision in November, the 17th IMF said, in that period it can discuss the budget, it can't be discussed sooner. Maybe it's a matter of changing the laws that put the government in a position to break those laws on its own. But that's a fair point. As we come with a different economic policy, why are we holding back old political relations? Let the house whoever it wants, we don't need those little plots, to schedule on Saturday at 3:00 p.m. Sunday at 3:00 p.m., to get someone to write fewer amendments. Your budget is such that it really doesn't suit anyone. We prefer a fair relationship in which we will tell what is good and thus oblige you to protect something like that tomorrow, instead of making pointless wars here, because it's disrespect for people who have done a lot of things to make this budget the way it is. When we talk about an increase in agrarian, we know what kind of pressure our agrarian is. How was the harvest? Fantastic, everyone was happy about it. What's the problem? In the fact that this year's sowing is half as small as last year's and that we will have a grain deficit in the announcement during the summer of next year. If we're talking about the growth of subsidies, then we need to talk about one development strategy, the fact that they haven't implemented the country's commission in 40 years, that we haven't built up the properties, that we're not competitive on that plan. These are topics that exceed the party frameworks. What did Obama do the day after the election? He sat down with a man who long ago crossed political boundaries in relation to him. What did Hilary say after the election? Respect the new president. You've won the election. I'm fighting you on that plan that I think you're making mistakes on, and above all, it's a question of our European future. I don't know if you can or can't be clear right now, but the longer you're prolonging the answers to these questions, the smaller our maneuvering work is going to be. It's like you don't make certain decisions about the economy, and then you can't correct them. We're close to the point after which we won't be able to correct our relationship. In this divided country, with such a degree of mutual misunderstanding, we cannot survive in what complicated circumstances we are in. Listening to the discussion on the Finance Committee, so you quote so often Professor Petrovic, he spoke of the budget honestly, said what is good and pointed out something that we need to think about, that we are terribly vulnerable to every instability in the world, the only thing that is safe in political life today is that there will be this instability. So what do we do? Could we have influenced Renco in Italy who called a referendum on constitutional reforms? We didn't. What's the situation today? The country with a debt of two thousand 300 billion euros is rocking. Could we have influenced the epilogue of American elections? We didn't. What's the perspective? Very, very uncertain. Trends suggest new administration are trends that suit us, they tend to isolateism. Well, the elections are coming in Germany, the elections are coming in France, so the new Alta is somewhere ahead of us, the processes are already beginning, the world is split again. What's Serbia? It becomes a country where we can't say it's good when income and expenditure are shown, because it becomes a country where it can't be said it was a mistake to sell NIS in 2008 in that way? Right, a few of us voted, but that doesn't mean anything anymore. We need to talk about these political issues. As for these key economic parameters that you mention, I think you lack a few sentences that are primarily directed at this private sector. Half of your ruling coalitions are parties that were some power until 2012. I don't argue that there were wrong privatisations, but we have to treat this society from the kind of preconceived preconceived that stops us from developing. The transition, if we want it to be effective, it's socially terribly destructive, and you had that dialogue in Valjevo a few days ago when a man tells you – it's a small salary, and you tell him – you know, someone will give you a bigger one. It's on the other side, terribly harsh. The circumstances in which we have found ourselves are such that there is no one to explain to society and bring it back to life after 30 years of being “burning, ” for which we have fought, as well as anyone else we drag by the sleeve, that it depends on the future of this country. We'll hear a lot of things, and we've been robbed by foreign investors. America is fighting for foreign direct investment. Without 80 billion direct investments, its economic system is unsustainable. Where are our resources? Direct investment, privatisation, connections, less and less, and credits. How are we gonna break that debt? What do they tell us on the Finance Committee, again Professor Petrovic? He says – by 2030 we will fight to get back into the frameworks of the law. So, from 2012 to 2030. Eighteen years we've been fighting to get back into the frameworks of legally defined and prescribed public debt, and in three years we've eaten it all. Then let's see how we can implement economic policy in this country if I wait for you at every corner with the idea of tripping you to what I can trip you to by promising what I'm not bound by tomorrow. That's how it doesn't work anywhere anymore. That's all Varoufakis believes in. And Siriza did the opposite two days after the referendum that had “no”. We should put a point on the nonsense in this Assembly, if it has to be a serious institution and say – economics is an economy. Foreign wars, party fights – yes, on other topics. There's no dancing about this. If we don't have that kind of maturity and ability then the trend of our collapse will continue, and the resources that we've stopped this from happening, they'll be permanently unthinked. There are no new ones. We won't be able to tighten the belt again in a year or two for 10% of our pensions and salaries, to take away the journals. How many doctors have gone to us in these four years because we can't pay them as much as we have to pay for them? If we lose that economic perspective and get out of this room without a message that we're only doomed, we'll shoot ourselves in both legs and run out of the future. So separate the economy from the politics. For what has been done over the past year on the economic plan, solving the problem "Sartida", solving the problems for enterprises that have been in restructuring. It was a time bomb of every government. There's a few left for next year. These are the successes and those people who took the severance and left. They're 150 companies out. They're getting along today and trying to survive. That's something to be respected. That's what's well done. If we want to solve problems in the future, both "Bor" and "Resavica" and "The Railways" and what you've listed, "Azotara", "Petrochemia", this assumption is the political sustainability of this country and its political orientation. We have an obvious crisis ahead of us in an announcement. Every election in Serbia is a drama. We have presidential elections. The possibility of parliamentary elections is being opened. I don't mind both if the country knows what it wants to do in these elections. At this point, the personification of the country is amongst other things. Stronger European orientation, more Shoygua, less Shoygua and we will realise these political plans, ensure the future of society. New regional policy. Addressing Kosovo's problem. What I'm trying to tell you is that we have to leave that rule by which everything in politics is possible. It is true that politics is only an impression, and when your parties or the Socialists say fewer or more sentences that have the same context as the LDP's on Kosovo, you are patriots, and we are traitors. I do not complain and we pay that price, but it is very important now to put an end to this cooking in the country and say very clearly – this country will be European, it will realise its European agenda, it will lead to a normal regional policy, it will be a source of internal stability, it is able to resist any spilling of the crisis on the outside. If we want to have that in front of us, then we need to get answers to simple questions – what are your political intentions? If you go to the presidential elections, what are your political intentions, since they are inevitably dragging parliamentary elections behind them? Are we going to change the course of the country on this plan or are we going to go to this presidential campaign differently than we've ever gone to before? Each one was much more elaborate and defamation, much less clear orientation. These are topics that are vitally important. Otherwise, the story of the budget itself, no one can say anything more than what the people of this business have said. You know what, I can't be crazy enough to invest a billion euros in the last year, I'm the one who's going to lecture on it. What did they say? Did they say we moved? What will they think of the country where the leaders of opposition parties say this is bad? What's our goal? To get them out of here? To those who are targeted, they don't want this country well, because when we were alone, we were doomed to fail and we worked bloodyly for these 16 years to come up with the fact that we don't have Pokivan's villages in the budget, that everything is as it should be written in the budget. We'll see what's gonna be realized. We can talk, but it's not a matter of budgetary policy, about the situation of the private sector, about the fact that our businesses are inequitable while banks pay negative interest because they're full of money that they don't place, about the fact that the state is a competitor in the financial markets, where it's being owed in a way that makes it uncompetitive, private sector above all, and about the perspective that you point out with the ambition to solve these few problems that are still standing here and represent and put pressure on society as a whole. These are the big systems that we won't solve so easily if the solution implies that the deal will be as valid as your authority. These are key questions and I hope you will answer them. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Vujovic, we've had a misunderstanding. I spoke to Ambassador Seselj, I really don't think Mr. Zivkovic deserved that warning, and I'm sorry about that. But I want to tell you a few things. Not many people in Serbian finances had the necessary experience to do the job. They had desire, ambition, and there wasn't enough experience. You've managed to be in one political government, but to maintain that position as someone who's professionally correct and we can't compromise on that. I think you just need to be clearer and say that it is not possible to send the budget in accordance with the law to the Assembly until the talks with the IMF are over, because these discussions and audits depend on the budget itself at all. We've got some raises here in the budget, and that wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for the conversation. Simply, these are some basic facts, and this would reduce the pressure on the whole debate and the circumstances that we were in during yesterday and today. The Liberal Democratic Party cannot vote for this budget. It's not an expression of disrespect for what's been done, but it's very important, it's an LDP position on a political segment that you completely bypass and you don't want to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7938	I really don't understand. Just a moment, please. You want to calm down so I can run a session? I have to delete everything to get the prime minister to respond, and Nenad Canak is next, so Dragan Markovic. Please come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7939	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention? I listened very carefully to everything you said and not to talk about percentages, but with a good part of what you said, I can agree. I am grateful for one thing, no matter what your MPs say, your parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the proposed budget. Thank you for being so correct that you see some significant changes for the better and talk about them. If nothing, it shows that you have learned from many of us in times past, if not from your own, and I trust my own, then also from some and mine and ours. Yes, indeed this budget, as you know, I've watched 20 budgets, either from these benches or from those, we haven't had a better budget. That's what anyone can tell you, from Professor Petrovic to everyone else. What is a key question that you have asked three times during your presentation, that better budget means more rights, more opportunities, more opportunities, above all for our citizens, for our people. I was also very respectful, no matter what they say about me personally, what they say about the government, I respected it, and when one other party, I mean DS, said, yes, it's okay what you did in Brussels and about the last agreement. This shows some shifts in the Serbian political scene, and not, in order to interpret it vulgarly, this one goes to this one, that one goes to that one. It says we're all becoming, vulgar to say it, but you'll understand what I mean, something more normal. To me, no matter what they insult me personally, it's a lot less disturbing if I know they'll respect state policy on certain matters. This shows that we are personally behind national and national interests, and I think there is much we can do in the future on this matter. Because what I said, as some have learned to hysterate the second you speak the truth, which some don't like, many in Serbia won't understand my words, they'll think I need a majority here. I don't need anything and, as you know me well, I would never fight for most of them in such a way, nor would I participate in such projects. I think it's very important that I point out the fact that we used to have 15% less pay in the private sector. We were able to narrow down, it was the essence of our program, and I talked about it here several times, although I noticed that it was the lowest degree of attention. In fact, we wanted to create such conditions that the private sector strengthens, that private sector gets higher wages. It's small, it's still low. We're a small economy, we're weak, we're still fragile, but we're much better than we were. Today, that difference is only 5%. I am now telling you, regardless of our increases in the public sector that we have done, I think we can arrive in the private sector before the end of 2017. You know how important this is for the health of the economy and how important it is to attract people to the private sector, not the state business and the state firm, because we will tell these people – people, look at the entrepreneurial spirit we are developing, you can earn more if you start your own business, much more than if you go to a state firm. This will bring us more taxes and contributions, it will make the Serbian economy unmatchedly healthier. Furthermore, it's true for the Iron Man, we've done a great job. With all the work and effort we've made, we've had objective and global political luck to make good contacts. It is partly our merit, but it takes a little bit of luck and a moment to take advantage of it. We used it. We used well and we helped, not only for those 5,200 workers, but for ten thousand of those who work together with them. It has a dramatic effect on our economy. If I'm not mistaken, their production has increased by 50% compared to the first six months. They make both ovens, they increase their salaries by 8%, and there's no problem with them. I don't have a problem, today I meet the director of "Zelezara" once a month and a half, once in two months, and in two days I had a meeting for "The Iron". This is the solution of the state, as you specifically said, almost 200 million expenditure on an annual basis, but resolved and concerned, and it is possible to concentrate on all other things, such as today's Petrochemy, because we want to pay the Russians everything, we want to raise those debts with 250 million. Because that's a total, you know, we're just doing the Petrochemy 600 million debt. Let's say we forget what's due to Serbia, which is about 250 million, if I'm not wrong, "Srbigas" 250 million, the state 250 million, 250 million NIS, and to watch if we can pay NIS those 250 million by paying 105, and immediately paying it, to get the lowest price possible, and then we can say, "Petrochemical" we've cleaned up, "Petrochemical" has a future. That's how we fight for every company. Sometimes you need luck. Sometimes someone comes to you, you know, in Krupanj, you take a small factory, it's not a big social product that they create there, it's a textile factory, but when it works 200 people in Krupanj, in which Krupanj stopped doing which the floods hit, and Licodra and Kruzje and Bulgaria, everything flooded, everything flooded Krupanj, someone you find who will save you, so we found Turk Tanner and we fought to get them there. That's what we think we should keep doing. Thank you for noticing such things somewhere, and what's true, it was easy for me to come to the National Assembly today, to be honest, never easier, because I know I've never had cleaner, never better, never clearer papers and results behind us, not just papers that talk about the future. I'm talking about objective things, although I know that Serbs will never accept it, because we've never been satisfied in history. If someone tells me what years the Serbs in their history have been happy and happy, it has never happened. It's enough to look at all the written acts from that period, and you'll understand that it doesn't exist. It won't be even next year, but if people look objectively, and I think you've made a significant contribution to a serious and responsible discussion, that much more than before we're talking about the deficit, that much more than before we're talking about growth, a serious contribution to such a discussion that people are going to start looking at these things more and more objectively. Because it can't be my fault that my husband beat up his wife. It's our job to make sure he's not allowed to do it and end up behind bars, and I think we've done a lot of things about it. But you can't make the news out of a black chronicle every day, so you can represent the situation as black, because it just can't be done by the government. The government can't be responsible for everything. I can't be guilty if the judge doesn't play foul once or another player, so if he's on one team, then I set up a game, or if he's on another team, then I'm a fan of that team. And so on and on. That kind of disease in our society can't be easily overcome, but what can we do? And when we talk about it, do not insult people, not you, but others, because of their physical characteristics. Just before you tweeted from here how Martinovic turned into an ear. I don't know if he's turned, it's funny to you, you should be ashamed of him, but try talking to him about the state, about the law, about constitutional law, about administrative law, so you can see if you can turn into ears or can't? To go back, Mr. Jovanovic, it's not such a black situation. We've got 500 thousand acres under the wheat, there's 610 thousand, and there's still a set going on. Of course, we also have fruitful reasons, etc., etc. so you will certainly receive further information from Mr. Dimovic during the debate. The more money we spend on agriculture, the more money we want, first of all, not in the well, not in the money for the sister-in-law, but in the machinery, irrigation, etc., because we want it to bring us better results in years ahead of us. You were talking about the plots about the number of amendments. We have about 400 amendments. Those who said they didn't have time to read have arrived to write 400 amendments, which will say they had a predetermined attitude towards something they didn't even read. We didn't have any plots. I had no obligation to come to this debate. I have come to respond to each of the heads of Parliament, to honor every parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to show that our arguments are strong. I will not be able to discuss with every MP, because the Prime Minister cannot set aside five or six days for other affairs in the executive government, but I do not think that I have shown respect for all the different parliamentary groups in parliament, and we did not need any plots on this matter. I'll go back to the most important question at the end, which was spent all the time. I've been talking about this longer, because I think it's important, because it has launched an important dialogue in Serbian society and it can also be important for the future. As for travel and other things, I am always grateful to our officers, but that you have in mind that we have 700 million and for travel to the MUP, as foreseen already in this budget. Why am I going back to that dialogue with the woman in Valjevo, who I accepted, knowing that for me it's impossible for me to give myself and the political party or the government that I lead to any point. There came a lovely lady and she said, for those who couldn't see it, she said – well, I worked here, I had to work overtime all the time, and I don't want my kids working 24 hours. To that, 99.99 politicians, you'll agree, I've been there and I've done it myself, and today you know it yourself – E, you're all right, we're terrible power, vote for us, as soon as it changes, it'll be different. I could have avoided it, and I could have told my wife she was right and I'd check it out. But I didn't do it. You know, I've seen my B-92 and N-1 coming through, knowing that's going to be their main thing right away, I've accepted the challenge of getting into dialogue, not the debate, into dialogue, and I said, I've regretted so much that I'm going to quote now everything the woman said and what I said. I thought there was a photographer here and now I see more photographers in this room. So look what's important to us. I said at the time: “But I think the point is not to run away from working, but to do as much as possible, ” because someone threw me on this side that they pay overtime, regardless of what is not enough money. She says, “But I don’t want to work 24 hours. ” Normally, no one can work 24 hours, it's not natural, but I'm metaphorically saying, "Yes, I would love to, and I feel like I'm doing so much, and I think I'm enjoying it, because there's nothing more beautiful than doing it. “ Then she said something that I was worried about and that I completely understand, but I must say, that is the essence of all our problems. That beautiful woman said, in her best intentions, she adores her children, saying: “Well, you see, I would hate for my children to work so much. ” Why do I think that's the essence of our problems? Because we were all based, and today, when we have less than 100,000 unemployed in Belgrade for the first time, one part of the people when you ask if they want to work in a boutique or in a store, in a burger shop, for 300 or 350 or 400 euros, they say – I won't, I'll wait for a better combination. I know in my environment for such problems and for such a relationship. If we can change that, our country can't stop all the problems we talked about, which are very serious, which you were talking about. This is a very serious discussion. No one can stop us. I told Han today that we would have much more growth than any Western European country. And we'll catch up quickly. And we don't have OECD money like they do. We just don't have them. But we'll be there in a hurry. I'm not saying that in 10 years we'll be neither France nor Holland, but at a rate like this, by yesterday, we wouldn't have made it in 200 years. This way we'll catch up to them in 30 years. If we work faster and better, we'll catch up with them faster. We have opportunities for all of this. You said: shall we be able to do so? I'm going to say that everything we've said here we'll be able to accomplish and expect, in advance, to tell you, a better result than what we've written. As we did this year, because this year is a much better result, so 122 billion is foreseen by the government's budget, the budget deficit, we have 30 billion at the moment, which is also after paying those five thousand, where we gave 10 billion for pensioners, and after this 105m euros for Petrochemical, and after everything we're going to see from old things to pay in December, I don't believe we can have 100m euros, 150m euros in deficit. No bigger than that. The question is, will that be too? It's hard, too. So 10 times is a better result than the one we predicted. We don't care about other people's feathers or what's to be in the future, but what we've already done. You're talking about the election. And that cruel dialogue, I think it was very useful, because it moved the boundaries of the conduct of politicians who shouldn't be courting the people. That's why I didn't judge Merkel when she talked to that girl in Syria, because she's, she's right, it's not very convenient to tell that kid, but she told her the truth. And as you can see, everyone who's been attacking her and judging her, Merkel's coming back, has a growing popularity, because people know she's told the truth, both in that and in many other cases. It is better to tell the people the truth, however bad and painful it sounds than to lie about how much better it will be without actually being able to do it. You're talking about sources of growth. The sources of growth are investments and exports, so far. When you have a billion and 800 without privatizing anything, and in the Western Balkans region, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the first with 350 or 400m euros, then it tells you how much more successful we are in investment than others and why we could have this kind of growth. Don't forget that their clues, the money they get from abroad, are much bigger than ours. They raised their construction industry to rebuild houses in Bosnia, as much money came from Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Germany and many other countries to restore homes destroyed in the war, which was not the case in Serbia. It should be kept in mind at all times. And for the first time, some more money was collected after a certain number of years. As for the FIC, the Foreign Investors' Council, as far as the Dujing Business List is concerned, we've done a good job here, and I'm not happy about the catastra, the general administrative procedure, I'm not satisfied with the parafisclaves and I believe that next year we can enter the first 30. I'm sure we'll get into the first 35. If we can solve the cadastre, we can go in the first 15, you just know. The essence is in the catastrophe. If we can do that, we'll get into the first 15 in the whole world. And, then, it will be a great boost for further progress in the Serbian economy and for the further arrival of Serbian investors. Don't forget, only a few years ago we were 115. Well, now from 115 to 15 isn't usually a little time needed. Now we come to what is your most important, I'd say, political issues. True, Paja Petrovic is right, we are very sensitive to every event in the world. The small economy remains, although our budget is stable and conservative, our economy is weak and unstable compared to large economies. We need stability, and that is why we keep insisting on it. Now the question is, how did all this work on us? Well, last night, Renzi's press conference, the euro drops 0.6 against the dollar, so much of our public debt goes up. Not guilty, not in debt. The second the stock market opens up and you see how it goes that second, we have a problem with every kind of instability. So I would tell those who know little or know nothing, and they look forward to anything that brings chaos into the world, because I guess we'd be better off if it was more chaos, that they always reckon that this is not the most favourable thing for our country, on the contrary. As far as Trampo's politics is concerned, there's only two things I'm going to say. One is good for us, the other is good for us. We will see. I'm not sure, we'll see. One that is good is that there will certainly be less political interference, as you said, it is a question of greater isolationist policies and focusing on American space and solving economic problems, especially in the steel industry, the automotive industry, where they want to restore pride to people in Ohio, Wisconsin and some other American states. It's okay. What we have a problem with, that's if there's a 35 per cent fine and tax imposed on American companies investing abroad. It'll do a lot more damage to some other countries, not Serbia, but it'll damage us too, because don't forget the plan of one NSA is that there are five, six or seven thousand people here, and if we can keep them here or if they'll take everything to Atlanta, to George, that's another question. And that's what we need to think about, and we need to talk about it because NSA is now building a new building in Belgrade, and 5,000 people where the minimum wage is 600 euros, the average salary is somewhere around 900 euros, and they're buying us kids from schools and they're not looking for a college degree, they're looking for knowledge. You come to the test and show knowledge, that you know English well, and that you know how to perform certain operations on your computer. So it all has its own for and against. And an additional question arises – what is it that will happen in Serbia and can we preserve stability or cannot? I think it is crucial that Serbia maintains stability, which is why I try not to respond every day to the nonsense I read in various media, social networks, by all means, from how many election cycles we will have, until I meet Sheikh Muhammad, I go to sell my own daughter to marry the sheik's son. And hang it on the most famous opposition sites, and you're not ashamed to do it, and to say such nasty things, etc. I don't have any problem with that. There is a problem with people thinking, just as you said to Mr. Jovanovic, I respect that kind of responsibility, that the worse it is in Serbia, the worse you say the heinous you say and the more hate challenges, the better it actually is for Serbia. I don't think that's true. I don't think that's the case. I think it is clear to everyone who objectively observes things that Serbia is on a safe path, on a good path. We don't have a major economic problem. We people expect between 400 and 600,000 Chinese tourists here next year. We're going to start, I'm telling you at least, you don't have to laugh, you don't have to evaluate the Chinese embassy and the Chinese ministries that there'll be over a million of them. What's so funny about you? I don't understand anything, but I'm not the one who can help you, believe me. Anyway, I want to tell you, we have a lot of opportunities and a lot of things we can do in the next period, and I believe we'll take advantage of that. Don't worry, we'll make sure we keep political stability here. What is certain is that Serbian citizens have the final word. I don't know if there's gonna be a single candidate or not? Will there be a unique one or not? I wish everyone so much happiness. What I can guarantee to anyone and I have no doubt, therefore, that will happen, is that we will fight, and what Homer would say, it is man's to fight and heaven to give victory. Whatever it is, we will admit it and preserve the stability of the system. He's probably a dossal candidate today. He's probably a favorite. We'll see maybe in the last month we'll try something to do. It may happen that a radical candidate wins, and who knows who else, we'll see it all, but by the support he has in the media and by everything else, I can see that things are positioned so that the candidate in question has a huge advantage over everyone else. Anyway, we're gonna fight. I prepared a sentence, as if I knew what I was going to do, thinking about being criticized, and thank you for not criticizing me, but for talking about it in an objective way, because that's exactly what happened in Valjevo, that's what Nove described in the words – I came to help you, and you complain that I'm not going to cry with you. My job is not to cry with anyone, but to see if I can solve problems and if we can all solve those problems together. So we will continue to the future, and thank you for a very, very correct discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7940	Thank you. The word has Nenad Canak, let Dragan Markovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7941	The Republic was sought by Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7942	You know why it's hard for me, 'cause everybody picks up and there's no way you're just waving at me. All right, I'll give you my word, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7943	Mr. Wolfie, that's a pretty clear situation. They'll always be in the dispute policy, and that's something you understand very well. There's something else about me and LDP at this point in focus, it's your responsibility. Your responsibility even when you have a good budget and when you have a ruined political life in the country. The common candidate for the democratic opposition is not a problem for Serbia. For Serbia, the problem is the conflict we are facing because we are unable to cure society from these poisons and madness from the past 30 years. Those who, I guess, because I'm not with you in the government, would oblige me to say that this deficit that you're talking nonsense, that the poisoning of this private sector that has become competitive with a lower salary on the international market is a positive result, not something that deserves criticism of misrepresentation. When I mentioned the elections, elections are never a problem for democratic societies. They're a chance on condition that society knows what they're looking for in that election. The referendum in Britain has destroyed both Britain and Europe. Renzi's idea of reforming the constitution destroyed Europe and destroyed Italy, put Europe at risk. We have elections ahead of us. You're the Prime Minister, you have to make an effort to stop wasting our country the way we've done it so far. We don't need nonsense. And you yourself said that stupidity is what happened in Herzegovia. You can sort it out somehow. Politically, let's put an end to the subject, and there will always be disputes, and tomorrow there will be another Herzegovica. The issue of presidential elections, if we don't know how we're getting into it, you know what, you and your government have made a series of instability, the other thing is nothing, there's no institution. Understand what happened in Montenegro, how much pressure there was and what a threat to European Serbia was here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7944	Thank you. I have to delete the list again and give the prime minister my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7945	I don't think we're going into any kind of conflict. We have one always unpleasant atmosphere, because even when you make the best budget, many people will say the worst, even though they know it's the best budget. The problem is, they know it well. It's not just about political collecting points, it's about developing that kind of hate, in nothing else. Every MP in the National Assembly knows how much better this budget is than the previous ones, everyone knows it, except that someone wants to say it, not just from the ruling majority, but from someone like you, and someone doesn't want to say it. Now, why would we go into conflict, because a pseudo-Hungarian elite cannot bear defeat or the fact that someone who has been criticized for 20 years does certain things much better than they do, because someone is more honest than they are, because someone is more diligent, because someone is more disciplined, more responsible? Since they can't admit it ever, then something third will always be wrong and that's why we have to spread hate all over the place. You yourself said, "If it wasn't for the Savamale, there would have been another, it would have been the third." Always something less or more pointless, sometimes not pointless, but it always comes down to hate and usually personal hatred that doesn't have a place in politics if you want, and Churchill talked about it -- there's no place for revenge in politics, but many people in Serbia's public life can't understand it. He can't and there can't be a place to hate. I just showed you a case of a party that says very bad things about me every day, I said – thank you for your attitude on an important issue for the state of Serbia, thank you very much, I respect that very much. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Which is it? I spoke, Vojislav, while you were away. So these are things that are very important to us. We don't go into conflict because we never run away from the recognition of electoral will. You will never see, unlike some who are ready to get certain votes and to achieve their goals, to hit women in the aisle, in the halls, to scream, to yell, to threaten, to meet with foreign ambassadors to solve their problems. We never do that and we never do that. We trust in the will of the people, and as long as there is a will of the people, we will be in that place. When there is no will of the people, please, we congratulate you, pure cheek, in the same way that Boyko Borisov did, in the same way that he did to Renci, and we have no problem. I think that's clean. Because a man lives for his ideas. That's what I heard from Renty. He told me, 45 years old. I asked him when I came to Rome, maybe it wasn't stupid, he took me on an official visit, and that day I saw news that he had dropped his popularity by as much as 7%. He was on strike because of the Labour Act, similar to what he was ours to bring. I ask him, are you worried? Are you nervous? Are you nervous? He tells me, no, we need to spend as much time together as possible, I have no problem with it, I have no problem because it's mine to do, 45 years I can only dream of doing something for my country, doing something good for my country, for my Italy, doing today what I think is best for Italy, whether people understand me or don't understand me, well, what I care about. I think that's the best thing. We do what we think is best. It's up to the people to assess it. If the people want to get back into it, I could tell you about a relationship within the state of the Dossian presidential candidate and us, to show you how they treated certain things and what those presidential candidates were doing in the state of state money, and how we treated each other, so that you could see the difference. If the people want to choose that and go back to that kind of past, I don't have any problem, maybe that's the future. Congratulations, go ahead, do your job. We're not going to participate and I'm not going to compromise on that. Do you want me to tell you that I could have chosen the presidential candidates, the ones you're going to support, to be mine since some of them offered themselves to me? Well, I didn't want to agree to that. And you all know I'm telling the truth, except I won't go along with it, because morals and cheeks in politics are very important. Anna, did you invite me to support one? You did. So I said, "I won't support him because I care about Serbia, and you can call me all you want, I won't support him." I was called by strangers to support him. So, we're going to preserve stability, but I want to tell you that when all these elections are over, that it's time that, then we have until 2020, if you're in a position, if the candidates win, if you're in a position, then you're going to invite some of us from the opposition to talk about it. If we happen to, although it is a small probability and a small possibility, we do not accidentally lose those elections, then we will no doubt call on those who are correct and who are thinking about Serbia's future to work together in the future. I think it's very important. It's not about Chedomir, but especially not only Chedomir. It will be a little wider invitation for all those who do not decide who will enter parliament and who will get the votes, but for those who think with their heads, because I am interested in those who think with their heads and who think about Serbia and its future, and in that we are different.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7946	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7947	Thank you. I just wanted to explain the answer to one question. You asked me about the budget date. I read the list of all the activities on budget preparation yesterday in detail. Today I said it in short form. If I wasn't clear enough, let me explain, so there wouldn't be any misunderstanding. So, co-operation with the Fund in a three-year arrangement means that next year's budget is planned based on real data for the first three quarters of the current year. So we had to wait on October 15th to know the data for the first three quarters of this year, the IMF came to Belgrade only three days after the deadline. By November 1st, we prepared all these elements and negotiated. From November 2nd to November 14th, we have done all of the preparations for the budget, including complex things to set limits, increase wages, set up a framework for capital expenditure and everything else, including extending the budget to project loans, which you will agree to is a rather bulky step. From November 15 to November 22, we agreed with the users. From November 22nd to 26th, we packed it all, the 27th session of the committee, the 28th session of the government, where we found that outside those proposed limits there were 103 billion requests for additional funds. Then we had to spend three, four days in a very difficult process to come up with a solution to respect the commitments we have developed towards ourselves and not to violate any of the principles of budgeting and meeting priorities. So if it wasn't for that 103 billion, we'd probably be done sooner. This is how we had to move the session from Tuesday to Thursday. All the rest were technical requirements to clear the text and surrender to the Assembly. We wanted it to be a week earlier, but unfortunately, because of that difference, we needed time to resolve it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7948	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7949	Thank you. I'd like to first, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, friends and comrades, to refer to this morning's presentation of the finance minister, because in it whoever deals with the economy could recognize the familiar work of the IMF, which they call, and that's where you'll hopefully agree with me, Mr. Minister, they call this relationship to one country's golden crazy shirt, or a gold straightjacket. They call it that because the belts of the economy are so attached, no matter what the inhabitants of the country in which the economy is thought about it. That's how they achieve... Am I right, Mr. Finance Minister? Just so we're clear. In other words, I don't see what would be so controversial about this budget, since it's done by very strict rules where there's not much room for any great ingenuity. I'm not going to use the word autonomy on purpose. All in all, it would be very understandable in light of the difficult economic situation in the country if something else hadn't happened, and this is the scheme that stems from this draft budget. This scheme shows a practical picture of the general state level according to the i.e. In line with the report on the fiscal movements of the Ministry of Finance, it is very correct. However, what is problematic with this scheme is that it does not conform to the Constitution. Now we will come to a paradoxical situation, Mr. Prime Minister, that I, as an economist to you as a lawyer, now read a few members of the Constitution. So, Article 181. The constitution is – the co-operation of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. In other words, it separates local self-government from an autonomous province. Article 183 is the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, where it writes - Autonomous provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and their statutes, regulate the jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work of the bodies and services they establish. Autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of regional importance in the area, under one, spatial planning and development, under two, agriculture, water, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, catering, spas and spas, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river and rail transport and road planning, fairs and other business events. Three, education, sports, culture, health and social protection and public information at the province level. Autonomous provinces tend to exercise human and minority rights in accordance with the law. Autonomous provinces determine the symbols of the province and the way they are used. Now comes what I read all this about – autonomous provinces manage the province's property in the way provided for by law. Autonomous provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, have original incomes, provide funds to units of local self-government to carry out trusted tasks, bring their budget and final account. So I will repeat, autonomous provinces according to the Constitution and the law. Now that's where we come in. That law is gone. That is why, in this budget, the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, since it is the only functional autonomous province on Serbia's territory, and not under some special circumstances, so to speak, is reduced in this budget to only one form of local self-government, which is contrary. We had a debate here and what kind of debate should be about this budget, etc., so I'd like to draw your attention to just one little matter, Mr. Prime Minister. Practically complete budget is, I'm quite confident, without evil intent, but compressed, its most significant parts, into one single member, and that's Article 8. Article 8 has 120 pages, 52 to 172 pages. You can take a look at your budget samples. Since one MP can discuss one member of the budget for two minutes, this means that practically one amendment of two minutes should intervene on something that stands on 120 sides and makes the most practically significant part of the budget itself. That's certainly impossible. I understand that there is a model and method of obstructing the work of the Assembly of Amendments. It was an honor, joy and pleasure to suffer while I was part of the parliamentary majority and when we had to sit for days and vote on thousands and thousands of amendments that were made just to obstruct the work of the Assembly. This is completely pointless, and that is precisely why it is necessary to combat the obstruction of the Assembly, but on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that a constructive approach, as I believe most of the people in this room have, is to fix what can be fixed in this budget, and within the framework of this gold ludicrous MMF shirt, which we are stuck with for these or those reasons. So I believe there might be something to be done here. There are no laws that the AP Vojvodina could be treated differently at the level of the budget. I think it's a big leak. To say that they could have been brought before is quite true and in no way do I defend any earlier government that didn't do it, but I think this government would have to do this, once it's already correcting all the problems that the last government left her. On the other hand, we heard there were criticisms about the work of the tax administrations, if I understood correctly. Tax administrations, don't forget, they're not private firms, they're not NGOs. Tax administrations are an integral part of the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance is an integral part of this government, so I'd like to ask you to see what we're going to do with all this information that I'm telling you about and that just insist on the type of response. It's already deplaced to talk about these sad 7%, as allegedly belongs to the AP Vojvodina. That's usually Article 184. The Constitution of Serbia, which, Mr. Prime Minister, I will remind you, we met that night... Cedomir Jovanovic and I were in front of the Assembly in which this Constitution was brought and demonstrated, and you were in that assembly, if you remember. The autonomous province has original revenues which finance its competences, says 184. The type and level of original income of autonomous provinces is determined by law. That law is gone. The law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income. That law is gone. The budget of the AP Vojvodina is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. How can three weeks of budgets be invested in capital expenditures when most of the budget is transfer funds and thus already defined to individual addresses, so to speak? They can remain in the account of the government of the AP Vojvodina for just one day and simply no AP Vojvodina administration is able to fulfil its constitutional obligation imposed on it by the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, because of all this, I think it's very important to realize that the budget, as the most important law, does not levitate in some empty space. The budget itself must be accompanied by the necessary laws that would make it applicable and that would make it something that would be in line with the Constitution. This and this budget is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it has not been past. This is why on 11 January 2016, as LSV, we handed over an appeal to the Constitutional Court concerning these very questions that I am talking about. To this day we have received no answer, but what we have received from the Constitutional Court, but we have received data that Serbia is the first country in Europe at risk of poverty. However, that's right, but I'm talking about something else, it doesn't matter whether or not it's more important, that the last time the Life Standard Study in Serbia is published in 2007, and should be published every five years. It was not published in 2012. It's guilty of who's to blame, but I think it would be important to do such projects in order to find the basis from which it would proceed to overcome these social and all other social problems. By taking a summer view, as I could not do better in the short time that I had ahead of me, I saw that, for example, only a little less money was meant to solve the issue of the military's problems and only a little more money was allocated to solve the housing problems in KIM, where only a little less money was defined in part of Serbia's territory than for the whole Serbia Army, which is inadmissible given the amount of people they have, especially the military plan of pensioners, who have a problem with living space and roof over their heads. That's all the questions you see at first sight from all of this. The answers to these questions would be infinitely valuable, but the first and most important answer is whether and when all the laws necessary to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be passed, because it is absolutely something that the LSV cannot and will not support. On the other hand, we never got a final bill to compare how the budget was made and how the budget was implemented. In the province of Vojvodina, circumstances arise, this report was given to both six and nine months. I think it would be very wise to introduce this good and useful experience into the Republic of Serbia as well. Well, would you please answer me, Mr. Prime Minister, how do you feel about these questions I've referred to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7950	Thank you. To delete the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7951	Dear Mr. Canak, we haven't heard of the term "golden crazy shirt", but I wouldn't rule out that we were, economically speaking, in a situation where the most difficult cure and much more discipline was needed than usual so that we could start solving our problems. And no matter what anyone thinks today, everyone feels safer because they know that the species without perspective and uncertainty in the future are gone. Don't forget that "golden crazy shirt" when she took one South Korea 1990/91. the years following their three-year programme under which both the IMF and the World Bank in Washington and all over, they are also an example of an Asian tiger in the economy, primarily because of fiscal consolidation and the reduction of deficits to the lowest level, and then finding a source of growth especially in investments, but above all in exports. So for the first time in my life with a lot of confidence, I hope that enthusiasm always has, although I believe that people see it somewhere, but with a lot of confidence and in front of European Commissioner Johannes Han, I could talk about what I expect from Serbia in the future in economic terms, and I have listened to all the remarks, and that are meaningful and a lot of those that are pointless, but from them you can see that there are no excessive fears except in political instability and political uncertainty. Anything else, it seems to me that most of the most difficult tasks we've managed to accomplish. You mentioned a report by NGOs from Serbia that spoke about the risk of poverty. I remind you of the World Bank's official statement, this year, issued that Serbia for the first time in many years reduces the risk of poverty. We are not satisfied, by 0.5% the number of poor is reduced, we believe that in 2016 when the report comes it will be 1%, in 2017 the new 1.5% maybe even 2%. I believe your results are ahead of us. Do we have poor people? Of course we do, that poor thing we're worried about, so we've made decisions about one-time giving, just because we know. I know it won't save my father and mother who have high pensions and who are angry that most of them have been taken from them, but it will save our poor people and people who barely patch up the end of the end and in the White Palanca, and in Lebanon, and in the Shop, and in Bosilegrad, and in Priboj, and in every other place in our country where it is hard to live. You were talking about, I understand, I hope it's not an insult to you but a commendation, and as one of the few regional parties here in the People's Parliament about our relationship with the AP Vojvodina. Of course, it can't be an unconstitutional thing that doesn't exist as an act, and our behavior wasn't unconstitutional, because we don't have that kind of law. But we have other so-called. The lex specialis that are determined to be the original, original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. So the word is, that people would know what the revenues of the AP Vojvodina are and that's why I said that a lot of things in that financial and economic arrangement that was made between the Republic and the province were not clear to me at all. I don't understand. Politics, it seems to me that, I understand, in an economic sense, I don't understand anything. So the original income according to the Profit Tax Act is 42.7% of enterprises that have profits in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There is less money than the original revenue in the AP Vojvodina budget, primarily because of NIS, because the essence of NIS and the profit NIS reported, which is getting smaller and smaller year after year. On the other hand, we have 18% income tax and what people less know about AP Vojvodina's fees has the right to collect fees. It's a deforestation fee, forest fees, and a lot of others. It's basically here except for the fees we're talking about, there's no original income. These are all original republican revenues. You will now, perhaps, politically attack and say, "Yes, you would like to abolish the province." I wouldn't, although I don't understand that financial arrangement, I don't think so. I told you, we keep that level we've reached, even though I'm not quite sure it's economically viable that way. Anyway, the bottom line is the next one, so we've got it all governed by law, only by different laws. Do roof law, one law, so lex generals? I agree that it is and we need to talk about it and that all that is original, all that is the derivatives of the AP Vojvodina's income to write it down. But let's also write down some of the duties of the AP Vojvodina. Let me ask you, what are the obligations of the AP Vojvodina? You don't know how to answer me and no one can answer me. No one in this room knows how to answer me. Because it's not easy to answer. Don't draw a political conclusion, it's not easy to answer. That's why I'm saying we should all sit together and see if we can make a deal. Because all obligations are heavy and serious obligations in the Republic. All heavy and serious obligations are in the Republic. No problem, if we have to give something more that the province can better manage, let's talk about it. Just to make a commitment not to be like us now with other categorized roads when we have been transferred after three years of absolute unwork and non-repair of these roads, when we are told – hey, we can't do it, let's do it, so Serbia, in front of the winter service, when we should have hired extra money, just so people know what kind of resources we 30m euros are for winter service only. Thirty million euros. And because we are spoiled too, so the sea of the second is going to come, yes, they are surprised by the snow, although the snow has not surprised anyone, because people work day and night at four, three o'clock in the morning to clean up some snow, and I suppose they should also clean the house for him to be pleased with. So I don't think we have that kind of problem. We have a kind of problem that we haven't politically opened up enough and in time, that we haven't talked about politics, that we haven't even talked about that economic-financial part, and let's see what we can do about it. They can't come in new money or more money without knowing what's going on. We don't give money for purposeless spending on anyone. I believe in the new Provincial Government, aside from being my colleagues, so I know them well, I believe that they will understand that this money should not serve which money we give, to spend and throw it in the hole, but to serve strategic projects, for important projects at the level of the province. Because then the District Government and how it makes sense, then the District Government uses that money in a smart way, and it can see it better than the Republic Government. Then it's that step you pointed at, in accordance with Article 8. that doesn't identify with local self-government, but has more meaning. That's what we don't run from. We don't have a problem with that, but give us those solutions. Like this, I'm afraid, I can't see. We weren't criticizing, I wasn't criticizing the IRS, I was criticizing all of us, and you and me. When was the last time we asked for a fiscal bill? Come on, it's my duty now, I'm looking for him all the time. Before that, I didn't look for him. The IRS can't push it all away. That's impossible. They have 400 inspectors. We now want to increase the number of inspectors. We have a minimum tax administration, and we want these other people who are excess in those parts to ask them to be inspectors, to pass courses, to go through training and to be inspectors. But we have to change ourselves. We have to tell the people that he's not a good guy who doesn't issue a fiscal bill, because he takes from our children, takes from our paths. And we punish all the people who care about our children, our paths about our hospitals, our schools and everything else. We don't have the capacity, Nenad. They're gone. We can't hire with this condition of deficits to take to say – give us 2,000 people, and we need 2,000 people. Don't tell you, we have cities where I get 29 cases, all 29 don't get traffic through a fiscal register. So, grab your head, and then the presidents of those municipalities ask you -- give me 500 million, give me 600 million, from the trp. from the current budget reserve, to cover our deficit, because they don't care about the republican revenues. That was the problem always, except nobody wanted to talk about it. I don't want to court anyone. I want people to know how the state works and how the state works. If we took to hire 1,000 more people, not you, but someone else would attack us and say, "Oh, ha, you hire dads, you hire some over the link, party employees, I don't know who." I'm telling you, we're missing 2,000 tax inspectors. Work inspectors. What are you going to do when you have in one town in the east of Serbia, one inspector, a market inspector, and everyone knows that one inspector, and everyone knows that the other doesn't exist. We've changed now, so we've sent from other cities, so we've done it here, so we've done it like this. There's not enough of them. You can't do it, in two shifts these people work, they can't make it. I can't criticise them, and I'm grateful to them for their good work, for their work, and thanks to their work, and we have more revenue in the budget. Now I've got the information, from the Ministry of Finance they've given me that Victor Orban in Hungary hired 20,000 people in the IRS. Do you know what the VAT rate is - 27%, not 20%, 27%, but there are 20,000 people in the IRS who have to charge everything. We have 5500, and we don't have 500, and the average age is 55, instead of 35. Well done to those people. I'm just telling you how much we need rejuvenation and how much we need new people and new frames. You were talking about the army of Serbia and our separation for KIM. You say it's a little small for apartments. For these apartments, we give subsidized loans to soldiers, interest is the country's lowest, 2.9% to 3.2%, dinar loans are at stake. We've set aside 300 million to subsidize these loans to officers and soldiers, plus 300 million extras over the year, 464 million for military pensioners, as much as we can, and we haven't allocated that much money to Kim, which you can rightly criticize me. Then some others would tell us that we no longer treat KIM as part of our territory and no one would ever be satisfied. I think we found the best way to tell our people in KIM that we're with them, to say that it's part of our country, to carry out our obligations and be honest and open to you, more than it would be to all other citizens. There are parts where we can't charge even kilowatts of electricity and above all talk about KIM territory. Everything else, we've got a good charge. But for shutting down our people's electricity? I'm not ready for that right now, though I may be wrong. I want our people to have electricity, I want Kosovo Mitrovica to shine and shine, it can't be like Belgrade, but I want them to be able to show everyone else, that despite the low incomes that they have significant support for their country of Serbia, because people in Mitrovica, Leposavic and Zvecan and Zubian stream, but also people south of Ibra, Serbia sees as their own country. They know they have to deal with it, they know they have to work with Albanians, they know they have to talk and they have to solve problems with Kosovo authorities, they know it all, but in their hearts they only have one state, and that's Serbia, and now we need to shut it down for them. Maybe someone can criticize it. I don't think we have anyone else. If it's big money for KiM, it's big money, if you've calculated everything in different divisions, very big money. We can do that today, it'd be easier if it were something smaller, but I don't want to complain about it, or anything, that's something that would be good if we could increase in the future, but there are countless problems here. Here we pay salaries for people who do not live in Kosovo, because we cannot determine whether they live in Kosovo, we pay 1,000 such salaries, we have huge costs. If you calculate, that's hundreds of millions of euros, I don't even want to tell you the exact number, and I wish you wouldn't get angry about it. If you can count, but I don't think it's easy for you to count. It is not easy to count because there are different ministries, in different divisions, not clearly separate, but along with all other costs for all Serbia, so it is not easy to see. In any case, we show what we treat as the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Anyway, we're ready, we're open to talking, but we're not ready, we're not open to throwing money. I want to tell you that to subsidize farmers, we're going to give a minimum of nine billion, as I said, and it could happen to go up to 12.7 billion this year. At the same time, handing over an organ one and a half billion for the environment a billion, so people in Vojvodina don't have to worry. Poverty in Vojvodina, especially in municipalities that are very bad standing in Banat, first of all, is much easier first of all in Srem, something and in Backo, is not ideal, something is easier, it's much worse in Banat, but we're going to solve things and we're going to fix things. When I was talking about those transfer funds, I was always talking about the need to have a responsibility and responsibility for spending money, not having a good circuit secretary who's only good because that money will give a particular person or a particular organization, and that nothing has to come out of it and that there's no result. I think it's of great importance, and you're always welcome, as you know, to open a dialogue on every issue, in every way that is about constitutional, legal and any other status of the AP Vojvodina, within the Republic of Serbia, where as you can see, I have not used it, so now I'm transferring to you what you want, what it wants, I know that you believe that I want the Vojvodina as well as Belgrade, as well as any other part of Serbia. So I'm sure our dialogue can only bring to the best possible solutions, but the money over what we've given is gone - 7.3%. I think we could use some better money, but I'm not the one who can change historical circumstances, although, to be honest, those who made economic and financial arrangements between Belgrade and Novi Sad don't understand what they've done. It's like they had a jar of money coming out of them, and they don't understand that one day every penny has to be answered and that you have to put that money very transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7952	Thank you. Replica and let Dragan Markovic speak. Two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7953	I'd just like to ask you, Mr. Vlad, do you remember when you opened the Lir factory in Novi Sad that employs 2,000 workers? The factory's headquarters is located in Belgrade, Stari Grad, and the tax is charged in the headquarters, not where the factory is physically located. That's what Mr. Peck was talking about at the beginning, but obviously you didn't hear from all the data that came out loud enough, so I'll repeat that in order to know that the headquarters of companies working in Vojvodina were transferred to Belgrade and that there is a large amount of imbalance between the development of Vojvodina, central Serbia and the city of Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7954	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7955	If you'll excuse me. So, is that the factory, Mr. Canak, which I was told doesn't exist or doesn't exist for "Lir" and "Delfay". Is that the factory? He didn't speak, some others spoke. Yes, some also spoke about the Assembly in statements about the election campaign. They said I was lying about "Lir" and "Delfaj". They said I'd never hire anyone, and the other day I went to Delphate where 1,500 people worked. After 35 years, as you can see, some big factories came to Novi Sad and started hiring people. Now let's get back to your question. You're right. One of the two factories has its headquarters in Belgrade. So 42.7% of the profit tax stays in Belgrade, goes to the republican cash register. You shouldn't be saddened because at the end of Belgrade and Novi Sad cash register, it's always the same cash register, because we don't ask you if we're giving Novi Sad, it's the Serbian cash register. I wasn't talking about local self-government, the cities of Belgrade and Novi Sad. It's a Serbian register and it's a unique register. Belgrade can't be good, and Novi Sad can't be good and Belgrade can't be bad. Don't mind that we gave Novi Sad three million euros to edit the facades, because we consider it a special tourist potential and because they are the youth capital, then the capital of culture in 2021, and we stand out for Nis as well. They gave us 210 million projects. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So 209 million, that's what we're giving Belgrade, which you can see on Karajordje's street, etc. We'll give now and for Palanca, or else they'll fall apart and die after everything that's happened to them if I don't... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Four days have no water. That's why I say, what kind of condition you left them, it's good that they don't have 40 years of water, not four days, but we'll also help them have water and have money in their budget even though they're out of anything. So, "Lir" and "Daffey" profit taxes, that's all you forgot to say, they go territorially, where they work. From the profit tax, 18% remains for Novi Sad and for "Lira" and "Dajfai". But don't forget the most important thing, there's been three thousand employees in Novi Sad who didn't have a job, mostly young people between the ages of 18 and 30, and that's a big deal. Young people between the ages of 18 and 30 are taught to work in a private company. It'll stay 80%. Some will get fired, but they will learn to work, come to work early, come home from work tired, ready to work, ready to move forward, ready to live for their jobs. It's a big change. We haven't had a factory that big in New Sad in 40 years. Now we've brought two to Novi Sad, and we think we should continue on the same job to do it. I'm sure 35. So much. What's important, I didn't know about this problem, and I'd like to, you know, you're right, that about profit taxes, I don't have a problem with Novi Sad, New Now no problem like the city with its budget, no area either. He gets it from us, and we can always transfer more funds. It's the same cash register as I said. But I do have a problem if a company that has a job in Lebanon or in Krupanj is registered in Belgrade regardless of what that money remains in the state register. They stay one way or the other, but I'd like to make a good... (Nenad Chanak, from the place: Senta, says man.) ) In Sainta, and from “Tis Automotives” and everything else, I believe that we can regulate it in the same way. So it would remain for the Vojvodina and, of course, what belongs to the local self-government to remain local self-government. Anyway, we're open to that, but I think things are going well, they're going better. Do they go perfectly? They don't go, but you can think that next year we'll be talking about it, and we've got a factory in Krusevec with three thousand new people, Cromberg and Schubert, we'll have Coopers increased by 500 new places, we'll have another factory, and then we'll take the factory to Kralje, so that part that we're almost hungry after the privatisation of the robbery, after a lot of what's been destroyed and destroyed, I believe that we can look at the future with a lot more optimism. Thank you for your correctness and good suggestions. We are always ready to discuss and make decisions together in the interests of and citizens of Vojvodina and the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7956	Thank you. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7957	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Single Serbia will support the 2017 budget. Today I listened carefully to Minister Vujovic when he explained the budget. He did not deal with the numbers, but he was clear enough to see changes in the budget for 2017, changes that would be better for the citizens of Serbia. What I particularly want to single out and praise, that decentralisation in health has started to happen, that a large clinical centre is being built in Nis, that there will be a lot of apparatus for the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, that Serbian citizens do not have to come to Belgrade for everyone. I would also like to commend the position for agriculture where the funds for agricultural producers are left to receive certain funds for buying connected machinery or tractors, that farmers are only looking for one thing – the market, where they will place their products and I think the Minister of Agriculture must take a little more account and give advice on what farmers would sow next year and whether there is a market for that agricultural culture. It's something farmers are looking for. Mr. Prime Minister, I want to tell you that Serbia has never had the credibility and credit that it has been for the last three years, that in all the institutions of the international state where there is a city of states in all areas of Serbia has started to go up, which is a very important element for the arrival of foreign investors because foreign investors want to come to a country where there is stability in the course of the dinar, where there is political stability, security and to take advantage of what Serbia has, a signed agreement with Russia, Turkey and several other states to export without customs to these countries. You certainly know that, but a large number of Serbian citizens do not know that several countries that have been much more developed than Serbia have begun economically to achieve a worse result than Serbia. I'll tell you specifically for Italy that, you saw yesterday, that the referendum failed, but the largest number of those great industrialists, the producers compared Serbia with Italy. I know more than 50 owners of large companies from Italy and I am proud when they say – why is it not in our Italy as it is in Serbia? Also, I want to tell you that I have the same very good cooperation with Austria. Austria has a higher unemployment rate of 1.4% since 2015. Greece is a real example that we have made a decision for reforms at five to twelve and that Serbian citizens do not experience what the citizens of Greece have experienced. In these three countries, except Austria, there is no investment, nothing is made. What our people would say - it will be the night of death, until the morning is morning. We have to use it in this time period and next year, how do we show that we are one of the best countries, because what I've told you, these are the statistics of these countries, that it's getting worse and worse and that the next 2017, nothing tells these three countries that it's going to get better. Unemployment falls in Serbia, not by one, two, three, five percent, but much more. That's what he's talking about, said the minister that taxes are paid in time. Not to be paid in time, there are now a lot more taxpayers, and these taxpayers are both foreign investors and those domestic companies that used to work badly, and now they work a little better, and when they're full of state bills when it comes to taxpayers, I'm sure they're both good with those taxpayers and state and budget users. What else is important? That the Chinese are coming to Serbia. I've spoken to several Chinese companies. Here, let me tell you, I'm opening a big slipper factory in Jagodina in January, and the owner is Chinese. I have two more Italians, but I can't tell you who they are because they're stolen by the towns of Serbia. They stole one big one from me once, so you know, and it wasn't you, but one city. Now I keep my mouth shut until the papers are finished both at the state and when it comes to local self-government. So, there's a huge interest in foreign investors, which means that this budget will certainly be filled as planned. You said today that 2006 was the same surplus in the budget, but then I was in parliament and I know where that surplus -- from the factories and businesses sold. Some of the DOS then sold all the good cows to the muses, and they left them to this government and that we are suffering now, as our people would say. These factories had restructuring status and how could these people who worked there be satisfied because for years, pensioners worked and built factories to sell these factories? Where did the money go from those factories? In wages, not in some new, smaller factories and not in the roads. Speaking of roads, I want to tell you that you have reduced the price of calculations to every manufacturer who drives goods from his factory as a product, or brought to his factory as raw materials, that today is much faster to reach more cities in Serbia than it was in earlier years. Usually investors ask – where is the location, what are your paths? When they come to Serbia, they make sure that what we say when we go outside the border is true. What else is important, Prime Minister? There's the Minister of Education. I haven't heard him talking about dual education in the last month. I have a grandson who's in eighth grade and he'd write something down, something called practice. It's decided now, someone's made up their mind maybe before, we need some preparation, and that doesn't take a lot of money. They don't need money for dual education at all. The same teachers who teach these students today will teach tomorrow, but every school has to know in advance what factory they're gonna make a contract with, where your students are gonna go to practice. That way, Mr. Prime Minister, we'll increase the number of company owners. Tomorrow, a guy who finishes high school and learns that trade, he's a new taxpayer. He won't go abroad looking for a job. When I'm abroad, I want to tell you that in Serbia and Belgrade by emergency procedure, Prime Minister, you have to open an office for those young smart people who have no one to turn to, they're just mad at the municipality where they live and the city, and they make their own decision to go to Austria, Germany, and I don't know where. Do you know how many Serbian minds have gone because no one has received them to talk to them? We're gonna have to get someone to talk to those people. I guarantee you that every day we can hire in Serbia in large companies by a hundred smart people. I'm telling you from practice, gentlemen, I don't know who threw it away, but I'm the man that life taught, and what I've been doing is there's not one bar to buy, but life taught me and communication with people every day, just like our prime minister does. He was in Nis and he slept in the barracks. So if you don't communicate with citizens, we only communicate with citizens in an election campaign and we talk to them on TV that we're very smart, and on the other hand he doesn't know what's the burning problem of this man who wants to ask you a question because you're above him, you're on a hill, you see better than he is in a small community or in a small town. So, it's very important this dual education. Here, I beg you, Minister of Education, that you begin to do so as soon as possible. If we're going to have on average every week, here, I guarantee it on the basis of the number of interested investors, from March of the month when the construction season begins to build some factories, that these young people have a place to go to practice, and moreover, when they finish school, they're going to be admitted by someone who's opening the factory. You certainly follow that 80% of the factories in Serbia, which were opened three, five or six years ago, increase the number of workers, the wider market, see that Serbia is a good destination, but where are these workers? These workers will certainly not be the ones who took the severance from the factory and are over 55 years old, and they must be helped, but they are these young professional people. So it is now a very important thing in this time period for young people and for education in Serbia. I am pleased to hear good talk about Serbia and I am pleased that Serbia does not look negatively like other countries. You spoke of elections and whether these and those elections will be called. In order to be better than others, we have to train all the time, but not to train all the time, but to go out on the line, go out on sports grounds, and talk about who's going to do more. The greatest benefit of all campaigns, ladies and gentlemen, is for the citizens of Serbia. Why? All the local self-government comes out of all the construction machines and starts digging some holes, building something, a little help from the government, and we can't lose anything there. It's kind of a check to see what citizens think about those who run this government, about those who support this government and whether we're on the right track. Every man, in order to convince himself or convince himself how he lives, must compare himself to his neighbor, with someone else who does a similar job. Serbia, when compared to its neighbours, is, I am sure, better at this point than more than 20 EU member states that have much stronger levers than Serbia, because we have today, regardless of the chapters and everything, and it is not your fault, nor are we sitting here, we have candidate status for EU accession. We want to say it or not, that's how it is. As long as we have candidate status, I don't know. It's become a big burden, we're now following who's going to win in America, who's going to win Austria, whether there's going to be a referendum in Italy, what about Bregzit. Speaking of Bregzit, I have to tell you that this country where they say they come out of the EU has done a lot of evil to Serbia. I don't want to tell you his name, but English is spoken in that country. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What has done evil? ) Well, she did evil because she was the initiator to bomb Serbia, they kept calling us genocide people. We never waged conquest wars, we waged defensive wars. Now I answer to Mr. Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is, then, Great Britain. Now I understand. Excellent, five, Mr. Seselj. Great Britain. So, Mr. Prime Minister, don't worry. Whoever thinks well of Serbia will also support this budget. In this budget, we did not see that the car funds were planned, but this government and the previous government sold cars and gave these money to socially endangered persons across Serbia. No one's ever done that. I supported you because when I became mayor in 2004 in Jagodina I said – no more official cars, only when you are sick. Here, now let me tell you one truth. Petar Petrovic sat in the official car of Jagodina City Assembly and called me a mutual friend and said: "Jel Pera is sick," I say – "not". "So why is the official car driving it? “ I invite him, ” he says, “and I had to leave urgently. ” Only then did he use it and never again. You can't go into a function like a golossom without knowing later what you've got from capital. It's a good thing you're taking care of yourself, Prime Minister, both about former and current ministers and how they work and whether they're good, etc. Speaking of ministers, I can tell you that 99% of ministers do their job well. It's another 100 days, now there's New Year's Eves and Celebrations, etc. There are several ministers who impress citizens with what they do. I have to tell you, both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education at the beginning was active every day, now he's given me a break, to get back to what you promised the citizens. When it comes to agriculture, we have always had Ministers of Agriculture from Vojvodina, except that the previous government had a minister of agriculture from western Serbia, but Vojvodina is a big agricultural end of Serbia and I am glad that the Minister of Agriculture does not make a difference between Vojvodina, central Serbia, southern and western and, of course, thanks to you and the finance minister, that all farmers have the same right. Once, everything that could have gone to one province or one municipality, and little money was leaving Belgrade when it came to both southern and central and eastern Serbia and western Serbia. So we managed to decentralised Serbia and that all cities and municipalities have equal rights. One more thing I ask you, for the next year, here, you don't have to do for this one, when you make a criterion for transfer funds for municipalities and cities, to see how much before the last transfer asset criterion this city had, how many employees, if less employees are next year, to slightly increase the transfer funds. There are several cities and there are municipalities in Serbia that have such a problem. It's not your fault. This problem has been inherited for years, but we need to see how to solve these cities and municipalities have certain investments as well. What else do you have to do, Prime Minister, you, Minister of Business and Minister of Finance? You now need to direct every municipality proposal and tell you what they're going to do with their money, invest as an investment in the municipality or in the city where they come from, and that investment brings income. To give them a mission. If 90% of the municipalities say -- here, President, we're building a small factory, we're going to take this factory that's in bad shape, etc., we think, as a city, that we can raise that factory. When I'm at this proposal, I'm going to ask you, if you want me to be the first example, that the Jagodinian brewery can take over the Jagodina City Assembly and that we don't shut down that brewery, a story that's 50 years old, because of some buyers and, I don't know, the manager, and that we can show that we can't wait for everything from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy to solve our problem, but to create that possibility whether the Government will bring the regulation or some law that there is that possibility. But that city and that community that takes up some factory has a duty to have that plan or the feasibility study, as you're going to call it, realized in the quarter section or I don't know in a year. This would save a lot of factories and businesses in Serbia, because bankruptcy factories, you know, that one buys a factory of machinery without obligation, workers go to the bureau tomorrow and he can shut down that factory, not tied to a brewery, any factory in Serbia can shut down, there is no obligation to continue the area or activity at the moment he bought that factory. So, here, that's my proposal, it doesn't cost the government, and it can positively solve that problem. Even the cable factory that's in Jagodina. We still have factories in Serbia where I'm sure that local self-government, even local self-governments that have extra workers, don't throw these people out, come on, go to the factory, pick up, work. You're not an expert? You'll have an education. But that factory will also generate income to local self-government when it comes to salary taxes, and to the state, for everything they call regular obligations. It would avoid these factories being shut down, that someone puts a lock on those factories and that we put the economy slowly from the local self-government on its feet, and we can. Here, I've had so much. Thank you. Unique Serbia will vote in favour of the draft budget, with Vojvodina and Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7959	You've raised a lot of questions. I'll try to answer them briefly. The story of dual education is not a story in half a year, not in a year, not in five. We will not have dual education completed and introduced in our country in the majority part of our education system for ten or fifteen years, but the more we have to cover through dual education will be easier for our economy and our economic growth will be sustainable. These are not the results in which someone will be able to tell you – you did not reach tomorrow. It's about the pace we're going. I'm never satisfied with that pace. I didn't even see that it caused much attention when otherwise the Secretary General of the Swiss Chamber of Commerce came here, which is the greatest expert in dual education. In the economy, it is, in our political public, unfortunately, no one was interested. Because, through dual education, what we're organizing right now, Dragan, it's parent training, because parents also need to know what children are saying about it. For the first time, we are going through a plan of enrolment in secondary schools in certain local self-governments, so we are going to consult with local self-government, with the labour market, with the Chamber of Commerce and then to the Ministry of Education, that is, the State. Because we want to see what it is, what capacity it needs, so that we don't educate thousands of managers that we don't need, and that we miss thousands of welders or thousands of carpenters, thousands of carpenters, etc. So I think these are things that are crucial to our country's economic progress. As I said, without change in our education system, our economic growth today will be sustainable next year, perhaps in 2018, and already in 2019 we will begin to kneel. That's why it's important that we hurry up. You were talking about Nis, clinical centres in Kragujevac, etc. I want you to know that we've invested 50m euros in Nis now, that it's the best clinical center in the Balkans, 613 beds, that we have one magnetic resonance, two radiation apparatus, that it's absolutely luxurious and miraculously looking. I even asked if we had to do it so luxuriously. I'm not sorry, I'm not particularly sorry that it's in southern Serbia, where people will be able to see it, but the patients on the button move the blinds, not only open the windows but move the blinds, which is, you'll agree, rarely where the standard in Serbia has never been anywhere before, and it's not exactly everywhere or rarely where it's even in the west. I was saying, I took that little thing as an example, otherwise it's the most modernly equipped. For the next few days, 50 nurses, 50 permanent working relationships, 50 nurses, 25 as their replacement. What has been done for 40 years, or to God’s service, is now ending. It's the biggest health investment since VMA in the former SFRY. It will be open, Dragan, at the end of March, in early April, I better say in April 2017, so in four or five months we'll have a chance to open it in our Nis. We're investing 29 million in Kragujevac, investing in Novi Sad, even though it's a provincial institution, the province's jurisdiction. How much, Zlatibor, 38? We invest thirty-fivem euros in Novi Sad, 29 in Kragujevac, and investments in Belgrade are about 90m euros. So, all four clinical centres we're going to raise to the highest possible level of equipment, as we've introduced a gamma knife, as we've introduced scanners, as we've introduced many other apparatus, accelerators. We made a serious fund, a budget fund to treat our children. Look at how many children we've managed to cure, how many children we're helping to be treated with innovative drugs or the most expensive drugs that have to be brought from abroad. That's what the citizens of Serbia have provided. But we managed to leave enough space for the money to be spent on such things, the most human beings. I have one thing, although it would suit me to say that I am at all agreeable, because I know that what you said people very much like to hear, one thing that is political nature, but one thing that is essential in nature. I'd like to ask you, when it comes to a strawberry brewery or any other home, let's not privatize it by local self-government. Come on, let's not do this because that example anywhere in the world in that way couldn't work. If that's worth it, Dragan, if you think it's worth it and you want to buy it out of bankruptcy, let's find the businessmen, so we can make a due diligence, do a faasibilty study and find a private who can take it. It doesn't matter if it's Tonchev, whether it's Dragan, Goran, Zoran, Nenad, anyone, but it makes sense to put the joke aside. So that only makes sense in a moment if we privatise it, and we give it to the state on the back, in three months you will come to Belgrade and ask the government to subsidize it. You'll say, "Don't pay for the electricity, don't do this or that." Not because you're bad, but because the simple state isn't a good owner, except for the most important resources, we have problems here. We want to charge taxes, not lose money. We want to charge taxes so we can spend on roads, tracks and everything else. I mean, that's important, and I'm sure you understand me, too, and I can't just nod like other people and say that everything is like that. When you talk about hiding who the potential investors are, I understand that I am inside the party, which I've had for a while, the most difficult conflict was whether Cromberg Schubert will go to Leskovac or Kruševac, and two good friends, because they protect their cities from which they come, Bata and Goran, only they didn't kill each other about where the investor will come from. One's for Leskovac, one's for Kruševac. Then we let the investor choose where he felt better, and I hid my head alive so no one else would find me anywhere. I'm telling you the truth, but it's good to have such sweet pains. It's good until the factories want to come, so you can offer those spaces. I want to tell you that it's also important that, don't forget, two years ago, we had only a thousand employees in Turkish companies. Today we have 7,000 employees and that number is growing. Rasim met me, he was in Turkey two days ago, and we saw it before that, that never such order for coming to Serbia was, if I'm not mistaken, right, Rasim? Indeed, it was never such a order to come to Serbia. We expect that by the year before the end of the year, we will announce here that there are 20,000 people working in Turkish companies. It seems insignificant to someone, someone will say – it's textile. It's not all textiles, we have more and more automotive industry, than "Teklas" in Vlad's Han and beyond. We also have hosts, we have those who raise tourism potentials, entire portfolios, hotels, whatever you want, so, and it's spreading more and more, I'd say, to different industries, which is very good. What you said about the EU about candidate status, you attracted the positive emotions of all people in Serbia when you said that. And it is my duty to say that I have had the status of EU candidate and I have never bid on dates. I think it's possible that we can do our job successfully and successfully. Because one thing you said rightly, Serbia's reputation in Europe is primarily the reputation of our economy and our budget. You won't believe me, I was in Riga, at the China Plus 16 summit, I think I spoke to 14 prime ministers, of which my demands were for two or three prime ministers. When I was 14, everyone wants to talk to stronger economically stronger Serbia. No one wanted to talk to us until we had a 3% growth, until we had a budget deficit below the Mastrict, until we had a jump on the Dujing Business List. Everyone wants to talk today. Believe me, that's the basic thing they choose you for, because they get that information from the IMF, the World Bank, then they pick up the talker. I have not accidentally said that it is important to extend this kind of consensus and with another, in Serbia's political spectrum, that many others help us in the future, because we can go to four and five percent. They laughed at me, they laughed at me, they laughed at me when I spoke to the Chinese, and they didn't laugh at me like that when I brought them to the Brown Iron. You're sad that five thousand 200 people got the job you took away from them. Five thousand and two hundred people got a job and he's got a very decent salary, and that's sad for you. I'm very happy about that. You've left us an empty, empty ironworks that we needed to turn to get a hundred million euros to pay. So much for that. Don't throw it away, high school wouldn't help you, I'm sure neither the basics, but we'd have to get you back in preschool, courtesy to teach you. I don't know what can help me, but it can't help you. So what's very important is that we try to figure out how to solve the "Jagodina brewery". Let's try to interest certain investors, send letters and e-mails to different addresses to people who do this job. You've seen how successfully privatized one another is. How the Zajčar beer has been very successful, not to advertise any since Heiniken took over. So I believe that if there is any "business Case" that someone will call in to do so. Finally, since they laughed at me about the Chinese, they ended up laughing at me, not you, but some others, that I didn't smile at what you said about the Italians and about many others. We have certain things going on in the region. It is our turn that Romania is now drastically increasing wages and pensions thanks to its huge growth, and we have not shown our full growth. According to the new methodology that we haven't accepted yet, we would have had 10 percent higher growth, which means 3.1 or 3.2 because we didn't have a coverage of the gray economy. Bulgaria thus increased its growth by 10.6%, Romania by even 17% and so on, which we have not yet done compared to the figure they have compared to one, two, three, four percent. They have made a decision in parliament to increase drastically and minimal earnings and salaries and pensions due to high growth. That'll get us more work. Large investors are already interested in coming to Serbia. We raised the minimum labour price from 121 dinars to 130 dinars. We could've done it on 135 dinars. The employers would object, but it would pass. But our wish was to attract everyone else from the region, to win all of these are our friends, Romanians and Bulgarians and Macedonians, all of them and the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of them our friends, our brothers. You know, it's our job to take care of Serbia's wallet and Serbian citizens. That's why I wanted to attract as many investors as possible. So I'm sure, not counting the airport that we're going to have over two billion and two hundred, two billion and three hundred investments in the next year, plus what we're going to get for the airport. So these are things that are of great importance to us. The Italians feel it, the Italian, the Spanish companies and the most famous ones have sent us calls that functioned in Romania, rather than having yet to come into effect, as soon as an increased arrival in our country into our Serbia takes effect. So I believe that we can do a lot of things, and that's why I'm asking you to continue your engagement in both Italy and Austria and everywhere, because every factory you bring in, as we've shared opened this auto parts factory in Jagodina, so, that you've met people by chance whether in Verona or Varese, it doesn't matter, you managed to bring it. It's not our problem to pay millions to keep them here, to subsidize them, we'll pay for it, as we will pay for every Serb who has that market. Just make sure people want to come to Jagodina, like we're fighting to get to Turkey, to come to Paracino, no matter where they rule in any way. The only thing we have a problem with the transfer funds is that many municipalities didn't understand that they had to cut their deficit. They think one year we got out, we got out of the state, we got another time, they think it can go on forever. It can't be forever. I ask the presidents of the municipalities, many are very smart, very capable, I ask them to cut their deficits, they will have much more, especially by the arrival of investors, than what remains of local self-government, will have much more to invest in the development of local infrastructure. They just have to act serious, because our deficit bearer this year is not the Serbian government, which pays for everything that pays for pensions, which pays for everything, is not even our project loans, but our municipalities and cities. You're talking about cars, you're absolutely right. We are now considering the possibility of an operational lease. You can't have the service delivered to you for two years. You want me to tell you why? Because maintenance costs us more at an annual level than those cars. Now let me tell you who's being installed, how do I know that? It costs us more than the price of those cars. You all know it, and everybody knows it here. And when you say and when you mention -- let's stop it, people, that it's not my car, that it's not this minister's car, that minister's car, let's get the company on operational lease, like they do in Sweden, as they do in many other advanced countries, suddenly six months I can't get the paper. It really is. If we can, if we can do that, we ask you to back us up, because by doing that, we're going to have huge savings in the next period. I didn't suggest it, we didn't do it because we thought we'd save a lot of money. It's not that I didn't take a single diary, and by now I'd have about 90,000 euros if I'd been collecting diaries, and some have taken over 60,000 and 70,000 euros. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Ministers? No, candidates, Vojislave, but for the president. Because it was just thinking about how and how to make them rich, not about how to treat the state. But I think the point is that with our relationship with the state, we can show that things are changing in Serbia, and that's why we need your help, and don't be angry that sometimes I don't agree with an idea, because I think that kind of dialogue and that kind of communication always brings some new solutions and some new ideas. I congratulate you on your energy, and I want you to use it even more for the economic development of the entire Pomorava County and Serbia, not just for Jagodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7960	Thank you. I can give you two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7961	Mr. President, I didn't tell you that the Labour Act we brought for foreign investors was very important. What else is important? The state is the only one, or the state of Serbia, is the only state in the Balkans where there are no demonstrations, where people don't go out into the streets, where police don't beat people, where gendarmes don't beat people, where there's no tear gas, and that's a very important factor for foreign investors. Here, I'll make you a parallel now. The people have joined together for the last three years as during the bombing, all on one side, except for one smaller number, and so it will be until the end, because when the people join together, no one can do anything to that state. Fortunately for us, now the people have joined together, there's about 74% on this side of us, and I was counting last night, so I was getting some sleep. I'll continue today when I get back to Jagodina. But I expect 80% of Serbia's citizens' trust and votes to win our coalition with yours and that Serbia no longer has candidate status for EU accession candidate, to join the EU. Thank you. Here, says Mr. Vojislav – until we cross 100%. Well, we have to let you play a little. You'll get angry, please. We'll give you something small, some cloth, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7962	The next word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7963	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, of course the budget is the most interesting day of the year of assembly work when we talk about government plans for next year, about policies to be implemented on the basis of the budget that the Assembly will adopt for next year. It's not just a matter of economy, economic results, numbers, pluses, minuses, but of all those policies that have come before us in over 1,000 pages this year for discussion. Why did we resent the short term that was inappropriately short for preparing for a serious discussion? We got our budget on Friday, and we started the debate on Sunday. It certainly was not possible to study all these 1,200-1,300 pages and prepare for a good discussion. I have to admit, I can understand that the draft budget could not have been before because of the commitments Serbia has in line to make an agreement with the IMF, but I have no understanding why we were then given no opportunity here for at least a week, so we could adopt the budget even within that legal deadline that says December 15th. We could have started this debate in a few days and prepared it more seriously. I can't accept the argument – that's how it was before and everything's fine. It's not right, as it was wrong then, but I guess we should step away from that discussion, see how we're going to have a better budget, how we're going to have better policies, which should ultimately result in a better life for Serbia's citizens. I can't, of course, slow down some numbers from this budget. The fact that the deficit is planned for next year is small. Whether he's at a historic minimum or not, we've been listening to this debate today, below the line, above the line, 2005, 2006, I'm not professional enough for this debate, but I don't think it's relevant to the citizens of Serbia. For Serbian citizens, the result is important in a year's time, whether Serbian citizens will live better than they do today, whether this planned 3% growth will be evenly distributed to everyone or someone will get more, someone less, and why someone will get more and less. I think we should talk about it and fight for certain parts of society, for the cities and municipalities from which we come and that's what the debate should look like. I, unfortunately, couldn't prepare enough quality for that kind of debate, I admit it. I'm on my way to read the budget. Two years ago when we adopted the budget, the fifth budget this assembly majority adopts, means fifth, I think it's about time we moved away from the story of what was and who was responsible for some things. The fifth budget, we said then – programming budget. We're going to be able to watch programs now, every ministry to describe some programs, some parameters based on which we're going to monitor the realization of these programs, and then see how these programs come true. I have to be honest, I've paid the most attention to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because I think the problem in the state of poverty is great. I did not find, Mr. Prime Minister, the 2016 data of the World Bank, but 25.4% of the population at risk of poverty is the World Bank's 2015 data. If something dropped in 2016 by 0.5%, as you say, that's good, but we're far away, I believe, from the goal we want to achieve. Still, whether we're first or not in Europe, it's a huge number of Serbian citizens, 30% of children, and then I watched what the ministry's programmes are and I didn't find any. I haven't found any, unfortunately. I've found that the same programs will be done at almost the same amount as they've done so far. So there's no policy change. There is no law on the financial care of the family that should change the structure of social giving which, according to the World Bank analysis, makes the social giving system in Serbia ineffective, which does not wrongly target those vulnerable groups. It's not there. There will be a child's allowance as it has been for the same number of users so far. For babies, it will be given instead of 63,200, what is the starting value, 65,000 for maternity care, as planned. You can, Minister, nod your head. There isn't. You claim I'm wrong, but I'm telling you that what you're talking about here in this budget is gone. I couldn't find it, I admit it. I looked carefully, I couldn't find it. I found some interesting programs that have zero-improvement parameters. So the base value says, the starting value of zero, the parameter for tracking zero, then when you look at what the item is, that's the pay item, for building maintenance. So this budget is a hybrid. Is one part a line? Some items, some programs were designed just to fulfill the form, but not the essence. That's why I think this budget is bad, because we don't know which policies the government spends on Serbian citizens' money on. Every penny in this budget is the money of the Serbian citizens and the third citizens who voted for the parties that make up this government, but also those two, three-thirds who did not vote for this government, or the parties that make up this government. Each one of them, I mean, has the right to know how money will be spent. Maybe he's got an idea. What are these government activities that will encourage the number of children born in Serbia? What are these government programmes that will reduce the eviction of people from Serbia? What are these government programs that will employ young people? Is there a special programme for youth employment? The European Union, when it identified a problem for youth employment several years ago, brought a programme and implemented it in several countries, primarily in southern Europe, and it results. Does this government have such a program? I didn't find it here. There's an item, it's got our attention, an active employment policy. It sounds very good. So I started looking at what it's all about -- four and a half billion for company employees in restructuring and a billion and 250 million dinars for the employment of disabled people. That's good, but it will hire according to this program 7,580 people in 2017. It's not small, but it's enough. Can we do more? Can we find some money in this budget that's not being spent rationally? There's an interesting item -- a billion and 750 million dollars to make reserves of oil and oil derivatives. This is in accordance with the European Directive. According to this directive, we should build warehouses, buy oil and oil derivatives, and by 2022, it seems to me that we have some percentage that meets the two-month market needs. We, as far as I know, have given most of the money in the last two years, based on that, to buy options. Options for the purchase of oil and petroleum products in Germany, companies formed days before the ministry opened a tender for this thing, are made so that no serious company can report and then we throw a few million euros each year. Is there anything we can save? It's just little things I've managed to find in these 40 hours. I believe there's more to be done, and that's supposed to be a congregation budget debate, so let's see where those places can be saved. There's one piece of information that simply disproves the policy the finance minister was talking about this morning. The finance minister has said since 2013, a public sector employment ban has been in place, public sector wages have been cut, and what is the result? In 2012, 173 billion dinars were foreseen in the draft budget for employees. In this budget, 193 billion dinars, 20 billion more, 12%. How, if we've cut our salaries and we've hired no one for four years, how about 12% more money? What's going on? Are they really reduced salaries, and they are because the state in the public sector, as we defined it, unfortunately, by law, because we didn't put public enterprises in it... (Alexander Vukic, from the post: You have pay and severances. The severances? Are the severances there? On that first page, I'm looking at the first page of the budget... Whether these are classified severances or not, I don't know, but I am sure there has been party employment in both the public sector and public enterprises for four years now. Serbian citizens know that, and they don't need this budget to make sure of it. I want to talk about the things in which the Republic of Serbia is experiencing these results. He said something about the Prime Minister earlier. He says we're competing with our friends, our neighbors on the market, to take over our investments, to come to us. What's our advantage? You said it too, but she's devastating to me. We offer the cheapest workforce. You said – they increased the minimum earnings much more than we did and we are more interesting for it. I think it's bad for Serbia's future. I think Serbia needs politics, not growth, but development. You're talking about 2.8% growth. What is this growth in the countries around us? Four, five percent. This budget explanation says that the IMF has a growth projection, globally, in the world 3.1% for 2016 and 3.4% for 2017, respectively. So we're behind the world average. We are better than the EU, but where they are today compared to us. The European Union 1.8% in 2016, 1.6% next year. We'll have three. I'm not so sure we'll catch up with them as quickly as you said. I think it'll take a lot more time to catch up with them if we ever catch up. That's why we have to invest smartly. That little money that the state has to invest wisely, let's see which branches it invests in. Is it agriculture, is it energy, is it green energy, is it IT? You said next year you're planning 10 million or as much in IT. You had an investment this year that caused you a riot on the IT market in Serbia, a subsidy to the Endava company, a British firm, 1.6m euros, it seems to me, where people thought you were making, domestic companies engaged by domestic workers have complained, because now a foreign company with that investment can take over their workers, because there is a shortage of IT experts in Serbia. Is that a smart investment? Do we need investment in IT that way? Or we should work to raise the capacity of educational institutions and educate more personnel, but in a way that they stay in Serbia, work in Serbia, start families here. Are there any measures that need to make it easier to start a family? I read in some countries that the government is participating in the apartment, some measures are being taken. Did we get to that moment or didn't we? Maybe we didn't. Let's see what our plans are. And what I want to ask is, above all, the finance minister, he said that almost all the fiscal consolidation goals of 3.9 out of 4. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Structural. ) Yes structurally. Now I'm asking you, that plan was supposed to happen in three years. Two years ago, when we started, the first thing to do was to reduce pensions in the bill that the law would be valid for three years. We have amended this law with your promise that it will cease to be valid before that three-year term, because we will achieve it sooner. Does this mean that in a year's time, the furthest pension tax law will cease to apply? You can't tell the pensioners you took 20% or 25% of your salary here's an increase of 1.5% in 2017. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: It was an average reduction. ) You cannot talk about an average reduction of 5.8% because not everyone was covered by this reduction. Seven hundred thousand people under the law had reduced pensions of 20 or 25%, that's the law. I'm asking you, are you going to get those people, a team of 700,000 people, in a year's time, their pensions back? You can't make, you can't tell them here's a once-in-a-lifetime 5.00, then you'll get an answer like that from that gentleman who gave you back those 5,000.00 dinars. Or you'll talk about an increase of 1.5% when inflation is 1.5%. So 1.5% said Minister Vujovic, I wrote it down. That's what you said today. I'd like you to explain this game to me with the number of employees and unemployed in Serbia. I'm trying to understand her. According to the minister, the formal employment rate in Serbia has increased 1.4%, that is 26,500 people, unemployment has fallen by 8% and is now at 686,000 unemployed. That means the number of unemployed is down by 57,000 people. How did we hire 26,000 and reportedly reduced the number of unemployed by 57,000? Where are those people? Where are those 30,000 people? Is that these 30,000 people leaving Serbia every year? Or is that 30,000 black people? Where are they? I know this is a survey, but you can't say that you're reducing unemployment if employment doesn't increase. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make any economic sense. What citizens expect is that, at the end of the year, after this budget, after all these measures live better, they live differently. I am sure whether they will live better or not in this budget, unfortunately, does not depend much on the Serbian government. It does not depend generally, but certainly does not depend on this government, because I do not see any active measures that will change the situation in Serbia. We'll depend on how the economic situation in the world and around us will move, we'll be on that wave if it grows, but if the wave starts to break and fall, I'm afraid we'll find ourselves underwater and we'll sink deep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7964	Thank you. Alexander Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7965	I'll try to answer every question. You said we gave "Endavia" 1.6m euros in subsidies to the party of the company in the IT sector, if I understood correctly. Is that what you said? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Yes, I said so. Who bought the home company. That's how you said we gave them 1.6m euros, so you said, we didn't give them a dime. That's all I have to tell you. That's it. But it's like having to comment on whether or not I'm gonna sell my own daughter, because it's written in some newspaper. I'm not talking about you and your intentions, not at all, your intentions were correct and in a correct way you explained the budget. From your explanation and your explanation, it was very difficult to attack this budget. It's very difficult for serious people to attack. Unresponsible people can do whatever they want, serious and responsible people very hard to attack a budget like this. I told you 20 and a few have gone through my hands and I know what it is, and so I know how hard it is to attack this kind of budget, because it's well balanced, well done, in a country where both macroeconomic and fiscal parameters are excellent and are going better, where we have no problems. You spoke, I'll start from what you started, about a short budget deadline, so you said if we had to be late for a few days, thanks for that, we had to be late for everything we'd already told you about. We solved it, and we wanted to do it before the Board of the IMF ambush to finish the story so that we could go through the sixth revision and get in peacefully next year, we had to fill in what the IMF put in for us, as a pro-reaction, as a previous action to meet the conditions so that we could pass the review and we did it all. Whether we did it on time or not, we did it on time. That's what we had to do. Don't remind you, and I won't insist on it, people remember that we had in this country and temporary funding, and I remember also when Cedomir Jovanovic, and when Tom Nikolic, Vojislav Kostunica and many others prayed that at 11 o'clock on December 30th or 31st we let the budget go, so that we don't have temporary funding. People today are, I don't know, three, four, five, six December, which is from those dates, it's another month before it would take temporary funding, like we used to, but okay. We were talking about whether the historical minimum is a deficit, de facto it is. It doesn't have to be through the papers, essentially it is, because we didn't have a privatisation of 500,000 euros, or of 1,900,000 when you had the "Mobtel", so you could say that the deficit is that big and that big, because it's calculated as budget revenues, because our privatisation revenues count as budget revenues. Once again, we didn't count for next year, which is important for people to know, we didn't count on privatisation revenues, we didn't count on what we're going to get from the airport. So for us, the state of the budget is certainly going to be significantly better than that one right here that's supposed to be. We next year, if we accept that methodology, we can boast of a huge surplus at the moment when we get an ap-fram payment for the airport. But it doesn't make sense, we're serious enough to talk about how we set up the system and whether that system will work in a year, two or three when there are no other privatisation revenues, and that's most importantly, that's health, that's blood flow, that's economics, that's the wallet of a country. We've set that up better than ever. The question arises whether people will live better. And that's usually the easiest populist question for our citizens. Well done, every politician can use it. Yeah, they'll live, except every time they increase their income by 5% and 10%, they live better. It's just that people will never accept it or admit it and it's our nature. I asked you to tell me when someone lived well? No one in Serbia has ever admitted that. What year was that in our history? Don't tell me now five, or ten, or 20 years ago, tell me in history, when we were happy, when we were satisfied, to look at the books, so you can see that we were never satisfied. I'm not worried about being subjective, I'm worried about what's real. I'm worried about whether we can provide water, electricity, roads, streets, modern railways, better trains, better highways just like the one you passed between LJG and Preljina and that you saw better highways in Austria, Switzerland and Germany. You're not, go see and you'll be proud of your country and your citizens who could do it and who did it that way. Soon we open new shares in eastern Serbia and the south of Serbia and you will again be proud of your country. That's what makes people's lives better. In Nis, we will have the best clinic in the Balkans. There's a lot going on and there's a lot going on. Look at how many tourists we have more, 13% of tourists are more. Every year we go cumulatively to 11, 12 and 13% of tourists more. Hotels, as many as we had and how many today, from 36 to 95 in Belgrade alone, in the last four years of categorized hotels. So, by almost three times the increase. Some people saw that opportunity, constantly increasing the number of tourists, and managed to make a job. They'll need more. You laugh, laugh, we'll have signs in both English and Russian and Chinese and in each other because we want to attract these people to come here as much as possible. You asked one very important question, one very precise and precise question that I have no answer to. I'd love to hear it from Alexander Woolin today, but I'm not sure we can all give it together. We pay a lot of money, 136 or 132 billion for the social. We're giving 137 billion for the social, it's huge money, it's a billion and 100 million euros, huge money. I wish it was less. I didn't want it to be less because I know we have such a significant number of poor people, people in a state of social need. My question for you is, I'm sure we're throwing it the wrong way, whether we're shooting it right or not. I see we're shooting wrong somewhere. Let's see how much money we'd better distribute. Let's take a look and give us an idea without denying someone the right. I'm sure we could guess that better. You said the wages were increasing, I'd read you the exact figures to see them shrink. They are increasing last year and have not yet reached the level of 2014. So, look, I'm reading you exact figures in the dinar, 2014 240 billion 949 million, down in 2015 after the fiscal consolidation measure, I'm talking about public sector wages to 215 billion 714 million, then growing in 2016 because of the increase we made from 2, 3 and 4% for teachers and teachers to 221,277. It grows precisely because of a further increase for teachers, teachers to 232,375. We're still eight billion short to get to that level we had. The teachers and teachers will have a bigger salary, the same health workers, cops and soldiers for shades, but the public administration, the one where the Prime Minister sits, the one where you sit, and I don't know who else, in different ways people work here, when I say so, they'll still have the same, lower wages. Are we fair to these people? We want to destimulate somewhere, we have a lot of good people and good people here, but we're just trying to destimulate people at work in public administration. We want them to go to the private sector, we want them to work in some other businesses, primarily manufacturing, not public administration. So these are really figures and they're very precise, there's no fiction or anything controversial. As to whether it's Serbian citizens' money? It's all Serbia's citizens' money. Only someone can keep him safe and can spend it, and someone can't. I think whoever's holding the register and running the state needs to know best and be the most responsible. That's exactly why governments are different. That's why I think so much hated and criticized Milan Stojadinovic was much more successful in Serbian history than many others who were very praised just because he could spend and because he could save and knew how to work and treat the cashier and the wallet. You're talking about party employment, there's no lies here, there's no fraud. If there are exceptions, there are certain exceptions. Whether there are anomalies, irregularities, they are safe, especially at the level of local self-government. I have no doubt. I haven't seen anyone new in the government in two or three years, nobody new. We approve of the government's decision to be employed, to make you understand, we must approve the government's decision. We have a government decision to approve the Nis 50 new nurses' clinic center. It can't be decided by the director of the clinic center, the board of directors or anyone else. That's not what's going on, Marco. It's not there. These are hollow stories for the newspaper, like many others. Empty stories, as it's exaggerated in your time, are now not exaggerating, now literally making up things that come to mind, what's better sold to him, and that's what I'm going to write. We've got anti-urban protection seasons for a lot of other things. So we talked about employment and non-employment and that our argument is the cheapest workforce. No, it would just be bad if we had the most expensive workforce. Our arguments in attracting investors are a stable political, very stable macroeconomic and fiscal situation in our country. Believe me, these are the first two things every investor looks at. That's two of the most absolutely important things. Only after that is the third thing that comes to him are incentives, or subsidies for his investment and for the creation of the factory, and he won't come if he doesn't get incentives. They go everywhere in the environment. The one who tells me it's not true, he's lying to you. I've talked to countless of them and negotiated with them, and I know how people are brought into the country. We're not sorry to give it to the factory, not a million or two million euros if it's going to hire people, if it's going to produce, if it's going to create excess values. It's the smartest money spent, not throwing in a hole to raise salaries in public administration. I think we used that the smartest way. Remember, a business environment is the fourth thing that attracts them. Can they easily get to the license, if they can't get to the license, as they're spoken to by counter officials? Today, we received from the EU for sectoral budgetary planning and public administration reform of 80m euros. It won't be easy to see, it's a big money that we need to change ourselves to better treat a citizen who has to be a god for each and every one of us. I was once a guest in Japan when I was in opposition. I was a guest at the Japanese government's invitation, and I learned a lot about the attitude towards the citizens. I've learned a lot about what their obligations are. If you saw the Secretary-General, the Prime Minister and the Japanese Assembly, a citizen who would complain about something, you'd get to him ten times what was wrong and how it could help. Try to get someone on the phone, no one will answer until he's called Trump or Putin himself, because everyone at the level of importance of Trump or Putin. These are the problems we face and where we have to change ourselves. Ask some of these MPs when they're trying to get some important people, who they can get and who they can't get. Who they can always get and who they never get. You'll always see what kind of problems we have in this matter. Furthermore, as far as education in the IT sector is concerned, I am absolutely in agreement with you. Didn't you notice in the budget and I expected you all to commend it, we invested ten million euros. We need another 10,000 people 50 million euros, that's what we've been counting on. So for 10,000 new people who would pass training, who would be professional, who could be employed by the IT sector, we need 50m euros. We've singled out 2,000 right now for this year, and we're ready to set out so much more over TBR and in other ways, for 4,000 new employees and for 4,000 new people to be born, we're willing to create for the IT sector, just to help. You didn't miss much, there was a problem with whether to give it to Endava or not, but the money wasn't allowed to know. It gave up, talked to all our kids, and that problem was solved. There were stories, but the decision was never made. Furthermore, as far as starting a family, we gave it, you saw the first money for Slavica Djukic Dejanovic so she could just explore what public policies are, what it is that we need to do to encourage Natalie. We've given big money to come to the conclusion of what we need to do and it's not just what people would say economic well-being. You have countries that stand economically incomparably better than Serbia and have an even bigger problem with adolescence than Serbia. There are a lot of factors, and that's why it takes Slavica to do it seriously and professionally, and it's not a problem for us to give a lot more money for next year, just give us what it is that brings us a sure result. I don't like to approach it in layman's terms, unprofessionally, and just say it -- give us the money, it'll be better. Nothing guarantees we'll get better. I don't give money unless there's a guarantee it'll get better. I don't give money for nothing. I give money if it's any use. I think that's how we have to act and act. You were talking about the Retirement Act. The average pension reduction was 5.8% for the first time. After the pension hike, now it's going to be a little less than 3%. I believe that next year we'll be able to have more pensions than it was three years ago, I'm almost sure of it, I won't even mention one-offs. It's like a gift. I'm talking about a system pension solution, but it depends on how we're going to do it and I think it's going to be a better arrangement. Yes, my father and mother will have something smaller, but the poorest middle-class pensioners will have significantly bigger pensioners. I don't mind. I think it's fairer and more regular especially in the conditions we had at the time, in terms of the economic crisis. In the future, they will return to those who had great ones. I don't have any doubts, but in a mass of resources it will be more amounts for pensions and for a greater number of pensioners. Don't forget that you already have today with this 73% increase in pensioners who have more pensions than they've ever had. And I'm not saying they're enough. They're small, but don't forget that today we pay 40% for pensioners from the budget of what our budget revenues are because there's no PIO fund, there's no such money. Eat the money. We had to pay 58%, if that's how it was at the beginning of the term of office now we're only 40% paying from the budget. We want to come pay 20%, and then there won't be a problem for big and more significant pension payments. On a monthly level? Annually? It's 510 billion a year, more like 40% of my money, and something, no, not just a little bit about dinars, so our 45 billion is the monthly pension payout level. That's right, 510 billion is on our annual pension payout level. I'm just asking you -- and how do you think that pays off, we need 40% of the money, so 202, 203 billion to pay out of the budget, not from the PIO fund. I don't think it's that easy or simple, but we're doing it. As far as employment and unemployment are concerned, these figures never match. You don't have any lists that talk about matching because you have seasonal workers, because you're doing a survey where people say whether they're employed or not, because you have both home jobs and informal jobs and everything else. What's the good news, which I don't believe in, is why I didn't tell you today, waiting for it to be confirmed, we had 15.2% unemployment, which is not good, but it's much better than what's been going on. Jump 10%, that's for Christ's sake, for a 40% jump of the value we've had. We have the latest data that says that in the last quarter that unemployment has dropped to 13.8%. I'm waiting for it to be confirmed. Until I see in absolute data numbers, I'm not gonna say anything. But we won't have too much trouble with that. In the next two, three years, we'll be able to bring down a drastic, unemployment state. We have other problems with political stability both in the country and in the region. We have a problem with how to address the question of uncharging claims in banks, so-called banks. "Empiles" because it can only further boost credit activity and if we have a promotion today, a 1.6% increase in credit activity, better interest rates. Everything's better than it's ever been, but it's not worth it. We still have a problem because it's not going to make it easy for businesses to lend credit precisely because of these "empiels" that amount to -- how much, two billion, 2.5 billion, and we're now looking at how to solve it and negotiate with all these companies to see how we can find a solution not to go through a bad bank to solve it, but to solve it by some other principles. We have many difficult tasks ahead of us in the next period that need to lead to an even healthier situation and to make it much better. Thank you for your discussion. It was correct and it was very important to repeat what I said and it was correct amongst other things, not judging that you would behave differently, I'm sure you'd always behave the same way or the same, which is good for the National Assembly, but it's really hard to attack this budget with objective arguments, very hard. Of course, there are always people whose arguments mean nothing and who will attack anything that comes to mind because they're just like that. They enjoy it and they know you have five or ten percent people who hate something and want to hear it bad, but this budget is very difficult to attack objective arguments. I'm listening to the argument in three days' time. No one gets angry, I haven't heard any serious arguments about a budget attack. I know you know the budget is good too. And I know others know it's a good budget. I understand the work of opposition MPs. I've done it many times myself. But it is good and it is good to say that Serbia is in a good situation to have such a good budget and to be on the right track. And that is why I am pleased that we have had a good discussion today, and I believe that tomorrow we will continue with the other ministers and all the rest of the days, because by the end and by amendments there will be ministers at the debate and try to respond, at least those in charge of certain divisions, because I think that discussion and communication between the executive and legislative authorities is of priority and for our democratic and overall stable influences the overall political order. Thank you very much. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7966	Just take it easy, colleague Đurisic. It's okay. Hold on. Another minister wants to answer your questions, so you're getting a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7967	Thank you. I'll try to answer most of your questions or all your questions. When it comes to your concern for the number of users of our rights, let me tell you right now that the budget has been increased by almost 2.9 billion dinars right on the line. So, not only will social giving not be reduced, on the contrary, we have provided space to significantly increase them, and thanks to the fact that we have provided this space according to the law you spoke of, the Financial Support Act for families with children, will provide the widest possible coverage of users. Never before have women in the country, women with temporary and occasional contracts, women who have worked on authorial contracts, all women who have paid anything in the budget for the first time in history, will literally have the right to maternity compensation for the first time in history. It's never happened before. This is the first time and it is a revolution in social protection. It's never been before. Also, when you asked and I hold you to vote for that law when it comes before you, because it's really important. We're going to increase the parental supplement, we're going to significantly increase it thanks to this particular increase in money on these parts. You were talking about a child's allowance. A fundamental regret for a child's supplement, that those children from families who don't need him objectively. That argument sometimes stands, sometimes it doesn't stand, but it says that we're still not able to determine exactly how many people work on black because these are people whose incomes we can't determine and because we can't determine them because of that you have the right to both social aid and child support because it just seems formally that you have nothing, and you're essentially working on black. In order to deal with it, not only through labour inspection measures, I'm going to talk about labour inspection, but now we're going to do something that's never been done in this country. It will finally be delivered in the next two years, after the stages of next year's first phase, by the end of 2017 another, we will make a final social map. When a social record is done you will finally be able to know how it is possible that someone has a car and that they are receiving social assistance and that they are not reported anywhere and that they are doing nothing. And that's what we're going to do and that's what the funds are supposed to be here for. And that's the way to determine exactly who it goes to, for example. a child's supplement. A measure of another monthly child's allowance is being introduced at the end of the year, that is, in September when those who finished that year of high school, well ended well, just passed, we're ready to help, we're ready to reward a certain kind of behavior and it's never been done before, and all because we can, because the economy has worked better. You were talking about party employment. Come on, number language, there can't be any lies or fraud. Since 7 December 2013, when a ban on public sector employment was issued, according to the pension fund records, therefore, according to the application records for compulsory social security, the number of people in the public sector has been reduced by 55,775, and the number of people registered paying mandatory contributions to pension and social insurance is 138,723 in the private sector. That's the difference. So there's nothing to lie about, there's nothing to hide. That's why the pension fund made 13.4 billion dinars more payments this year than planned. That's what we finance all of this. That can't be politicized, this is the language of money - 13.4 billion. I'm going to have to correct the president, 37% of this year's pensions, which is a significant reduction. That's what it says, thanks to the fact that the economy worked better, paid more, that it had more employees. There's just no room for statistics. But when we talk about statistics, in 2012, the number of employees, by the same methodology we're working on and now, which we didn't invent, which we were given, which we inherited from those before us, the number of employees was 2.228.343, and today it's 2.813.875. The unemployment rate in 2012, according to this same methodology, was 23.9%, and today it is 13.8%, and it is official. This is official data from the Bureau of Statistics. So there's no room for this to be politicized in any way or explained that we were doing something else. The reduction you see in the budget for this division is proof that the state works better. The national service, which you have spoken of, is no longer in place of the budget, but from its revenues, and the revenues of the National Employment Service are contributions to unemployment. That's another piece of evidence for a larger number of employees. We last year, last year, and every year we had to touch on it, and now we don't, because they made their own money, because thanks to the increased number of employees, that money exists. Otherwise, you know, through the National Employment Service is employed, through these activities, some 42,000 people, and this year we expect at least that much and we hope, of course, more. More than 140,000 people have gone through active employment measures. Also, just so you know, and that's once again proof of increased employment, it's again proof that more payments are made to the PIO fund and all the other social benefits, that we paid off the debts of military pensioners, that we paid off the debts to the farmers, that we paid even the debts of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija raised their hands, and that's compensation for the case of unemployment that has been paid since 2003 and they were delayed with six salaries, they were delayed with six compensations. That's a billion and 725 million. And we paid for it. We didn't leave any debts behind, and we did it because there was an increase in the number of employees and there was no other explanation. It's just like that. The labour inspection has so far found 16408 undeclared workers by 2 December, and 12,250 workers have been reported immediately after its resolution. Count, of course, on having what's called "halo effect", and employers hear that labour inspection is coming, and then we also saw in the register of mandatory social security that even the employers we found one or two undeclared workers, reported them according to our solutions, began to report more than we found, because they are aware that we will return, as we have returned. From June to September this year we returned to all enterprises that had more than three undeclared workers, and there we discovered that 75% of them kept registered workers. So, there wasn't that layoff scam. These are concrete things that we cannot speak politically of. So, as you can see, they give cause for optimism that this budget will be exactly the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7968	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7969	First of all, I want to answer to the Prime Minister, in the budget, page 97. - investments of particular importance, subsidies to private enterprises, at the end of Endava D.O.O. Belgrade. I don't know why she's in the budget if the government never approved subsidies in that company, like you said? Now that means that someone is wrong, is Alexander Vukic, who just told me here, and we all heard, or Alexander Vukic, who sent the draft budget to the Assembly? I think this requires an explanation. Because I certainly cannot ask for an explanation of the number of ministers who have just said that 600,000 people have found a job in Serbia for the past four years. I believe that out of the 600,000 I would know at least one, and I don't know one. I don't know who found a job in your Serbia. But you can go to any public enterprise and see the party circles of the SNS and other ruling parties there. In every public enterprise hundreds and hundreds of people sit around doing nothing, sitting behind computers, writing comments. It's a reality in Serbia. What 600,000 people in Serbia are you talking about? I can't find that statistic you're talking about. Here's your Finance Ministry website, here's their table, formal employment increased by 17,000 people. By 17,000 people, ministers, standing on your site, formal employment increased from the beginning of this year to September. It's on your site. I can't get along with this data because I don't know where they're coming from, and the fact that Endava D.O.O. Belgrade didn't get the money, and it's in the budget, 11 billion. Is that what we should vote on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7970	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7971	If I may have your attention. So, of course you tried to manipulate again what I said, and now I'm going to repeat, quote myself from a moment ago. So we haven't even paid the dinar to the company you mentioned. I told you this a moment ago, and now I repeat to you, we will not pay a single dollar. How do I find out... (National MP Marko Djurisic throws out of place. No, it says in total, and it doesn't say a certain amount. If all these companies are going to get the money, we'll see about that. That's for sure, and if they're going to get it, some will not, and some new ones will. Let me tell you something, what's funny to you, and you're showing rudeness, that you're throwing, that you're yelling, that you're showing your drawings that you can't tell how much you've stolen through bankruptcy proceedings, so you're going from everyone else in different ways, I can't help you, but here neither Sigmund Freud could help, that I could honestly tell you. It's hard to find any help, any support, to tell you the truth, but hope should never be lost. So we've got in a pinball of these possibilities. First, it's not in the budget, as you well know, Mr. Djurisic, but they're writing companies that might be able to raise money. Whether to stand out, about that then. No contracts with these companies have been signed yet, with any of the 30 companies mentioned here. Will it be, about that then. The government hasn't made a decision, and it won't make that decision, and Freud, it's not worth it, nothing can help you. It just doesn't work, but I believe, as far as we have, a few more months won't even be needed in this National Assembly. You'll have to look for him somewhere else. So, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something, there are people serious and people who can do something in politics, and there are people who don't know what to do with themselves, let alone what to do with other or certain facts. I helped them, I tried, it wasn't worth it, that's what I gave up. I can see today that there's nothing else going on. You guys see yourself, people? Aren't you ashamed to act like that? Well, that's how no one's ever acted in the congregation. I'm sorry the president doesn't warn you, but it doesn't matter. Now I want to explain to the citizens, these are the people who ran the campaign through their media yesterday, coming here to the parliamentary groups of the majority, wanting to probably deal physically with someone. Here, I'm shaking with fear how brave and dangerous you are. They said I'd get away from them from this National Assembly. I wouldn't leave this assembly while you're here, there's no money, there's no better fun, to tell you the truth. It's so serious and hard days for me to look at you. But these people, besides being entertained, which is good, did a few bad things, things that never happened in the congregation. They came to the benches of the majority, some provoked, some cursing, some cursing their mother. In the meantime, the mother passed away to these people's messengers, and they didn't even remember to say, "I'm sorry." If it were the other way around, we'd be blowing shit up, talking about who knows fairy tales and stories. By the way, you even spit on people, which doesn't exactly fit the moral, honor and honesty people. But it's good for me to understand what your abilities are. It's the art section. The art section at Uncle Freud's and that's the only thing that can help you. I believe that I can still be helpful and supportive, that's not insignificant, but I would pray if the camera could take pictures of them all the time, that people could see what kind of people it is, that everyone would simply understand what this is all about, that they could just see their eyes, their smiles, their faces and their fingers, what they were doing all the time. Unless you want to curse my mother or my dead father or someone else's Martinovic or something. Oh, you don't want to talk about the microphone, you're gonna do it like this. You won't be in the microphone, but you'll be like this. Let me see that. Let's see how brave you are and see what kind of men you are. Just don't send women, like you used to. You should be ashamed of what you do in the National Assembly. Now, this reminds us of Zagora, Te-Nea and Chico Gonzales, Kaitano Felipe, with these "jealous horns". Okay, let's get back to serious stuff. We're going to have to invest a lot more or this money a little more than that from the TDR I believe for a larger number of companies. But this company, after the talks we had with the representatives of our IT sector, won't get that money. I think that, Anna, you explained it to the representatives, if I'm not mistaken, if it's a British company. So it's a British company. We explained to them that they couldn't get it. Thank you again for your attention, thank you for your correctness. And as far as you're concerned, as soon as it's a serious debate, you have nothing to say. Just like Chico and Zagor then come in and start pulling out these drawings and calling Uncle Freud out for help. But soon another kind of help is coming to free you from these difficult duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7972	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexander Vukic, from the place: I didn't even mention him. No, of course not. I don't see those inscriptions, I have a big dioptria, if you don't mind if we exist with a big dioptria. We're not perfect, but what you're gonna do. I really don't understand this performance. Every time the surprise gets bigger and bigger, but I don't understand. I'll give a word to someone I understand. The word is Mira Petrovic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7973	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the cabinet and dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to try to get this back in serious shape right now. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this, as they would say, well-coordinated budget. I would just like to remind briefly that the PUPS parliamentary group, together with the pensioners of Serbia, and that was also the subject of the previous speaker, supported the prime minister and the concept of fiscal consolidation right at the moment when it was really difficult, but pensioners as far-responsible people who built this country and left all of this in amanet, and unfortunately in the last 15 years, it was all collapsing, realised that they had the same concept as the prime minister said earlier, and that he had the support of Prime Minister Renci, that he needed help from simply this country sometimes, and so they agreed and supported the reduction of pensions and salaries, of course, in the public sector. It wasn't an easy moment for anyone and it wasn't those people who had a lot of money, but they were aware, as always, and responsible and serious, as always, and they realized that it was their existential problem. If you asked any pensioners now, each of them would tell you that what's most important to him, that these are safe and regular pensions. We've just come to this budget and we've come to the point that the finances have settled, that there can be an increase in pensions of 1.5%, but we won't even talk about percentages because at this point it's not as important as it is that we really have a financial situation, that we don't have to think about what they're going to say, whether the mailman shows up or not. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the prime minister who today said that pensioners are the people most looking forward to hiring young people and opening new jobs, but not only because this will directly fill the budget and create these real resources, but also because in this army of unemployed they have their children, their grandchildren and their grandchildren, and that it will make their own budget easier administratively because they are now financing, they support a good number of households. What I'd like to say is that, of course, this 23rd aid, a one-time aid to pensioners, that we hope it won't be the only one, that every time in the next year and every year when an surplus in the budget appears, we'll send those funds to those who are most needed, and these really are the pensioners of Serbia where we have over a million people with incomes below 25,000 dinars. I'd just like to look back briefly on the public sector, which I come from. It is commendable that it is planned in the budget that the funds that are now being paid, i.e. the revenues generated from the profits of public enterprises, are increasing, if I have seen correctly, by about 75%. Last year, i.e. in 2016, it was planned that public companies would be paid 8.6 billion. I have to remind you that the Public Mail Company of Serbia only paid two billion and 200, I think, and that's about 25%. I'll also remind you that there are 15,000 employees with an average salary of 42,000. I'm sure this year, and in 2017, we're going to have this approximate percentage of 25%, and we're sure to get what we can pay for, but I think that next to us, next to the EMS, next to Telecom, next to the airport, there's still a bunch of businesses where we have to put in order. We only have at the level of the Republic 34 public enterprises, at the level of the entire Serbia 691, I think, which communally, which publicly. I think it's just too many numbers. Maybe not, but let's take a look at this situation once and make an exact cut and simply focus all these public enterprises in the right way, so wherever the state is the founder and where it has its own funds to get serious, people realize that they have to do their jobs responsibly and that all these public enterprises are just designed to fill the budget, in addition to the services they have to do. I think there's a big problem and the Law on Public Enterprises. I think there's a lot of work here, that this law should be amended, that we should set a little different criteria. We can't put all the public enterprises in the same basket, but I'm sure the preparedness was expressed, the prime minister showed it. I think the hardest part of the job will be right here with the minister of the economy, but also with Minister Krkobbic, who is in charge of this co-ordination of public enterprises. I think you're going to have to do that essential initial part, so that we can get along with three or four companies that are paying off the profits in the budget, that there's another, which obviously some of the funds are making, but they're directing them to the wrong side. I think you're going to have to do that essential, starting part, in order to be able to, in addition to three, four companies that are paying off their profits in the budget, to make others that obviously make some money, but they're directing them to the wrong side. I'd just like to remind you that I think that this country should remember a little bit and some insurance houses where the state has its own capital, where the founder is, we have our own banks. We don't exactly have payments from their profits, so let's tighten that discipline up a little bit. I think that the shifts are seen, whoever honestly wanted to talk to himself, after all, has to admit that we're moving forward, that we stopped that deep fall we were in, and that we should just all together support the progress that we're going towards. So I repeat once again, the PUPS parliamentary group will give support to the budget that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7974	Thank you. Do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7975	First of all, thank you for your support and a few things that are very important. I'll start with public enterprises. You're right, we have a total of them, with utility companies around 690 and not a large number of them, and public enterprises are companies that by nature things have a significant advantage or a monopoly position, or a commitment to earn money that they should pay. So, one part of the profit to pay off any local self-government, either to the province or to the Republic. That's why I believe there's a lot we can fix. It's a better situation in certain public enterprises. In many, it's not good enough yet. The situation in the Danube is better than it was two years ago. When you mentioned insurance companies again there are people who are interested in buying Dunav insurance, which couldn't have been imagined for two or three years, which I don't think is wise at this point, but I'm just saying that, I'd say good lacmus paper for what we managed to achieve in the previous period. As far as our largest public enterprises are concerned, of course the most significant "Electro-priority of Serbia" and by the number of employees and by their incomes and expenditures is convincing. I think we can do a lot more and we have to do "Electro-priorities of Serbia," but things are going, I would say, slowly, slower and weaker than we would have expected, but things are even going better here. I also want to say that we've allocated significant resources, which I didn't say today to the capital investment office, which means that next year we're going to rebuild a number of facilities, schools, hospitals and health homes. You'd be very happy to go around Serbia and see what a new school in the White Palace looks like or what a new school in Srlig looks like, or what a halls and halls will look like to us, etc. When I say, I don't mean you Miro, I know you're traveling, but I'm thinking about all the other people in Serbia, that they can see some of the most modern objects in places where they wouldn't expect it. I just think that this fight where we're going to ensure normal living conditions for our children and that people can see that we seem to be doing it slowly but surely making progress, that it's something that's good and of interest for the whole country and for all of our citizens. We've got a lot of problems here, and we're gonna have to change things, because in the chemical complex, but also in the railways, I can't say that ideally, we still have a lot of problems, but it's going better. The same is true of "Serbiagas", I would like it to go faster, better, and it to go much better, but something is different than it was. That's what I can say. Am I satisfied? No, but at least it's better than it was, it is. Because it always comes to you at the end of the year, in September you get one report, and then in late November you get a completely different report, to kill yourself, but you couldn't react in the meantime, because suddenly in two months it turns out and so on. But when you learn not that, or when it goes once or twice, then I guess the third time won't happen. To get to what was the core of your discussion and that is the question of the pensioners. I will try again to tell every pensioner in Serbia how and how pensions are paid. Since I've been listening to stories about how it exists somewhere and how pensions exist in the fund, just someone hasn't pulled them out and not paying them off, but using that money for something else. So, to us, as Mr. Vulin said, it's working so much better today than it did two years ago. The fund collects, instead of the former 42% of the necessary funds, the money needed for pensions, which is collected from taxes and contributions to salaries. So our pensions depend on the number of employees and the charge of the fund. Today, the fund collects 63% of the former 42%. So, drastically increased employment, drastically increased fund revenues, drastically increased fund revenues on this basis. What's next? We still pay almost 40%, whether it's 37% or 40%, I think I'm closer, but I hope we finish the year by 37%. So, whatever. That money is 40%, so to every pensioner who receives, say, 30,000 dinars, we're paying 12,000 dinars out of the budget. What we get from taxes and contributions would be enough for 18,000 dinars to retire. We pay those 12,000 out of the budget every month. There's no money, there's no money, they've been eaten, someone's eaten them, someone's stolen them, someone's funded the deficit in the privatisation process instead of investing in human production and employment. They're gone. So we have to be economically very successful in order to get that pension paid. That's why I want to tell pensioners who don't have to be interested, but I think it's important, because they're interested. Pensioners are interested in the future. Pensioners, as funny as that sounded to some, they were interested in the future of this country and they fought for this country and they know it best and understand it best. The bottom line is that we're trying to make a relationship where an increase of two, three, five and six percent won't be a problem, but we need a significantly stronger economy, and these people understand that. I'm sure I'm much better off than someone else. Those who were smart and said, give me what someone gave me in an irresponsible way, and what he financed from the privatisation incomes, the robbery, or what he financed by borrowing, so that those people know they wouldn't have a pension today that we accepted it. If we'd listened to them today, we wouldn't have retired. That's what people need to know, that's the truth alive, and that's the whole truth. They told me, for days this kind of campaign, as someone you took something away. No, we gave them and we fight every day. They say you'll get a check out of this. I didn't get any tickets from anyone. It's like when we gave education workers last year, so it was the Belgrade School Forum, we won't take it, we'll get it back. No one gave it back to me. He didn't even pay anyone back, and he'd put it in the budget right away, that's understood. But no one will, but it's only important to go against someone and someone's effort. It's important to go against someone's struggle. It's important to say something against someone's work. You know, Ivo Andric used to say, mockers are rarely when or never right. Well, that's the easiest thing to do. You can always say whatever you want. It's great. You've got experts to look at. Aren't you feeling well? That must be some kind of special dose. This man is communicating with slides, have you ever seen that? Come on, get that self-portrait out of yours. That self-portrait of yours from a little while ago, show the people. You guys, this is a pantomime contest, I guess. All right, let's get me back to you and talk seriously, get the pensioners to answer. It's not worth it, it looks like something, and I don't know where this is being bought, to tell you the truth, I haven't tried it in my life. Now, dear Mrs. Petrovic, the next thing you know is very important. Let's try to provide support for the pensioners, because without pensioners, we can't achieve all other reforms. I'm quite serious when I'm talking about it. We need them for all other reforms. They participated in all these results. And when, let me tell you, we have the strongest hunting aircraft in the region, which we're getting this year, and we've allocated funds for the first war that we have to pay for, when we have the strongest anti-aircraft defense systems, we should also know that they're a good part, I'm not going to say to the most responsible pensioners. I'm very grateful for that, because we fought long and long ago. We've talked once or twice about "Mig 29" and we're going to be a force. Now we're going to have 10, 11, 12, so you guys watch what it looks like. We'll do it all thanks to the support of the people, thanks to the support of the people who understand what we're doing, because without the progress of the economy, we can't do anything in any sphere. What someone says -- give more money here, you can't give something that doesn't exist, you have to earn it. That's why they had to run every campaign possible, we talked about how pensioners and scared, and speaking about cataclysm, in some countries in an environment that was richer than us 14 times, and today we're just talking about when, how and how we're going to increase, and not reduce at any time, as we had to because of the irresponsible policy we inherited, whose results we inherited. That's why the campaign was campaigned in the previous period and how I was talking about maternity services. Alexander talked about it a lot today. In the end, it turned out that they lied to every word, that they attributed me to words, that the one who lied, what he was installing the film, said that I was talking about the foster parents what I was saying about people like me and physical strength and years like me. You'll agree, I can't have a baby, it's not very logical, it's not normal. I leave it to you, and that obligation, and I'm counting on all sorts of things you found on the tape to drink, and that might happen. But let me tell you, let's get back to serious conversations. So, the bottom line is the next one. They had to represent the government, since they can't say anything to objective results, it's awfully difficult to attack this budget. I'd be struggling if I were in opposition how to find the angle of attack. I rarely did it wrong, I used to do it right. For this budget, I'd be struggling to find a good angle for an attack. The problem is that they just used the dirtiest means in the meantime, from maternity to direct assault here on Marijan Rističević, making up what he said, a false quote of words he didn't say, to the most difficult curses and everything else, and then running the most brutal campaign against the same people. You'll notice one thing, here it is, it's out with the self-portrait again. They painted you well, I have to admit they painted you quite nicely, they could've done a little better especially after taking this on the tape, but that's fine, and it shows you relatively faithfully. So, something says, I don't know what it says. I recognized his self-portrait, and I can't do this, the right to tell you that I can't see it, and I don't communicate with those who communicate with slides. What to do, I thought a man had other ways of communicating, but that's okay, that's all right. Is that something you're threatening with your fingers, something you want, something? And this is what eyes look like when the pupils spread, but every day it spreads its pupils three times, people, it's something hard on the tape taken. So, ladies and gentlemen... (Bosko Obradović, from the post: So why are you interrupting the session?- I'm sorry. Is there something you're throwing? Anything you'd like to throw again? Mr. Djurisic, they want to tell you that you are not the opposition, that's what Canka wants to say, that's what they want to tell Jovanovic, that's what they want to tell all of you. You're not the opposition. You're only opposition if you're cursing a dead father to someone, or if you're cursing someone's mother immobilized, then you're an opposition. You're not an opposition in the opposite case. Don't worry, it's my job to tell you that I'm educating you, to teach you something, because you haven't used time in the congregation to learn something, and I'm going to do it in the future, and I'm coming tomorrow to continue the same job, not to worry. I come again to educate you, not to worry. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Bravo! Bravo! So, I'm coming back. The only problem you have with me is that I'm not... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: So why are you interrupting the session?- I'm sorry. First, do not shout and we are not on “you. ” Secondly, I am neither a woman to beat me like you beat that woman in the National Assembly, nor can you, nor will I allow you to. I got a call from people from a bar in Chačka, and they told me you were always primitive, and I didn't trust them. I said to them, "No, it's impossible for that man to be like this." I'll be there tomorrow. I've got all day for you people, don't worry. The session was interrupted by the president of the National Assembly, who determined the duration of the session. At 3:30 today, the president said when it would be and when the session would take place. But I enjoy this discussion. Do you see how nervous she is? Now let me tell you why the anxiety is so much. Because there is another candidate besides the one who supplies serious potions on the tape, there is another candidate who will not sit in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for much longer because of the popular mood. Since that's the case, anxiety reaches its peak. Now they'd like the next thing. They'd like Maya to give them a word, but then they'd like to say that they're breaking up, that they're rebelling, and that they didn't have all the time that the Rules of Procedure had planned. And when you tell them, well, you'll have tomorrow and I'll come and answer you tomorrow, they won't even know, because now they've stopped by and they feel good and they believe they can do something, just like they're attacking that woman along with the ambassadors in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, tomorrow I'm coming here to teach you about the budget, to teach you civilised behavior in the National Assembly, to describe you a little bit, to know something about how to address other people, but to learn something about the budget at the same time. (Bosko Obradovic, from place: So what are you interrupting now? Well, I'm interrupting because I was afraid you were going to attack me. I'm counting on you to be so strong and brave, and I'm so scared of you, I'm so scared of you that I can't do anything else. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: So let's go) What then?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7976	Ambassador, please, why have you lost your temper now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7977	He lost his temper just because of what I told you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: So where are you running? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7978	We usually have this situation at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7979	Please, Honorable President, he just used the same syntagma as when he beat that woman in the National Assembly, instead of "where you run" - "where you run." He also yelled at her, excitedly, and then he hit his shoulder, and he thought the same thing now. I'm not running anywhere and we're not running anywhere, so we're not running anywhere. We're talking... (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Why don't you continue the session? Well, the session lasts until 9:00 p.m. The president of the assembly said today. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: There are 10 minutes left. No, I'm talking, like you noticed, and you're interrupting me. So, since we found out that we're not running away, but that we're going to stay here, and I'm going to come tomorrow so we don't run away from tomorrow, but to teach you what civilised behavior is, and this isn't a bar so you can negotiate and yell like you used to at the bar to yell, which is fine, you have the right to pay, but this isn't your National Assembly to have the right to act against the Rules of Procedure and all the rules, but you're having a terrible time and I wouldn't miss that very wise attack tomorrow that's going to tear and tear apart all our ideas, and this budget is not to talk about it. I can imagine what those words would be like from Sartra to Seneca. It will not be known whether Pekic or Andric is more quoted, if you are any of them, but come on... It's good for our schooling. It's good for our education system. I'm counting on him, Charcévic, to get him to read at least one book. All right, now let's take a look at where we're running, get out of here in serious things, get out of here and say the next thing. As far as Serbian citizens are concerned, I think they saw what is causing the greatest anxiety. Instead of being in normal countries when you mention elections to the opposition, they jump out of luck. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Instead of the opposition to give the word, you interrupt the work. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7980	Ambassador Obradovich, you may not throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7981	... They're the most pleased. Only in our land, when someone mentions the elections to them, do they flee like the devil from the cross and not even for a living head, only that they may not hear the word – elections. You want me to tell you why? Why is this important to the citizens? It's important that we see what's going on. Because there's only one thing that matters to them, and that's where and how they're gonna settle in. They know there's nothing they can do. They know they can't do anything. They know they never thought to do anything or offer anything. I'm not talking about everyone, I'm talking about individuals, and they know who that applies to. There are also responsible people and serious people, there are these system parties who know well how to do their job and to find the right measure of criticism, but there are those who have been terrified of the election because they know there won't be any more good salaries in the Assembly, that they won't be able to scream anymore, that they won't be able to beat women like they beat them by playing hero and that they won't be able to get ambassadors to go to them at midnight to bring them another thousand votes so they can't be here in parliament because they won't be able to help them with ambassadors, because they won't lack a thousand votes, but they'll miss tens of thousands of votes to get into this parliament, so the ambassadors won't be able to help them. You see, another really, really important thing about the budget, and that's... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: You have six minutes left. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7982	Ambassador Obradic, please, I will answer you anything you are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7983	Mrs. Gojkovic, right now, because he's saying that someone's gonna talk so much and so much, I'm not going to move on. I'm gonna save these important things that I thought I'd tell you about the budget for tomorrow, so I can explain to them and teach them one thing. That's who Hemingway was talking about. You know who Hemingway is. He said that whoever wins never stops and keeps winning. I'm gonna keep doing that job and I'm gonna keep working with you tomorrow. That's gonna take a long time. Thank you and I'm sorry for being so...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-05-0.u7984	Thank you to all the MPs who took it today... (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. Can I, can I say something? May I? Yeah, well, you let me. Thank you. So, I want to thank all the MPs who took part in the debate today, both the parties supporting the government and the opposition parties who had the opportunity to speak. Since I don't want to deny the opposition MPs ten minutes of time, and now it's eight minutes to nine, we'll continue tomorrow so they can exhibit and conduct a budget dialogue, as far as they know, with the Prime Minister. We'll continue at ten o'clock. After the question, we continue on the budget. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 108 MPs are present in the hall and that we can continue our work. I ask, do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want to request a notice in accordance with Article 287? Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
