ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49292	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions for further work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49293	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment, and this is - is this the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia planning to finance the construction of a memorial centre dedicated to Serbian victims in the First and Second World War? So, there was genocide committed against our people in both world wars. In the First, or Great World War - over a million and 250 thousand were Serbian victims, and in World War II...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49294	Ambassador, please, just approach the microphone. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49295	Thank you. I only ask for a little attention, colleagues and colleagues, since this is a question that concerns our countrymen who were killed in World War I and World War II, and it is said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely the Resent Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment, in whose jurisdiction is the maintenance of military and other memorials, plans to build a memorial centre dedicated to Serbian victims in the First and Second World War? I would like to point out that especially in the Second World War on the soil of the former Yugoslavia, one of the most terrible genocides in mankind's history, namely that more than a million Serbian victims were tired and that among them were civilians, women, children and old people, that only in Jasenovac, according to the documents available, 700,000 Serbs were killed, but also Jews and Roma. I believe it is necessary to maintain a lasting memory of these victims and to raise in Belgrade as the capital of Serbia and the capital of the country of origin of all Serbs, a memorial centre modelled by Jad Yours in Jerusalem, Israel, which was founded in 1953 or modelled on Cicercaberd, which was built in 1967 in Yerevan, the capital city of Armenia. I'll just say a few sentences that make me think this is significant. In the Serbian Renewal Movement, we believe that we must preserve the memory of these victims, so that crimes against our people will never be repeated again. This memory centre would display documents, artifacts, photographs, recorded names of the murdered. These victims deserve the compassion for the suffering they've suffered. Within this memorial centre, there should be an institute that is constantly involved in studying this great crime, which would organise symposiums, conventions, round tables, which would organise exhibitions around the world about the suffering of our people, in order to introduce the local and world public. It is also necessary to establish a general day of memory of our victims in these wars, and I believe they deserve to be called streets, markets in our cities, and institutions of national importance. It is especially important now that when Serbian victims are denied, when we see it in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, some of the past tips from World War II are reviving, when they are trying to rehabilitate so-called. An independent country in Croatia, which is unfortunately attended by some representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We see that one of the promoters of such trends is the Minister of Culture, which is particularly sad, in the Government of Croatia and our answer to such attempts - truth and documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49296	Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49297	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer my question today to the Minister of Culture. Given that he'll be with us these days, I believe he won't find it hard to finally answer our questions about the criminal privatisation of the New Market Regional Television. In view of the seriousness of these issues, I also ask that both the prime minister and the police and justice ministers be made known. We have already talked about how the money of the citizens of Novi Pazar is stolen through this television here several times, in particular on 2 April and 19 March, we even asked a parliamentary question that we have not yet received an answer. Given that nothing has been done today in this matter and that the criminal privatisation of the Regional Television of Novi Pazar has been done uninterruptedly until the end, the involvement of top state officials is unequivocal, in this case the Minister of Trade and Telecommunications, the mayor, with the direct participation of deputy mayors, directors of television and directors of the New Market Employment Office. They're all members of some phantom consortium that bought this TV. How did the ruling regime party sell itself that television? The government and the Culture Ministry first ignored the decisions of the Bosniak National Council, according to which the television was declared of special importance for Bosniaks. Then, too, calls were ignored for this reason to exclude this television from the privatisation process. In addition, the sale of regional television for 460,000 euros has been announced. The social programme for extra employees to be paid by the buyer was also included in that price. After determining the total price and before selling regional television, the coalition in Novi Pazar decided to lay off 51 workers to pay the New Pazar city budget instead of the buyer. In addition to 68m euros scheduled for 2015, another 16m dinar was paid to the company, just before the sale of this television, the rebalance of the city budget for 2015. Regional television was then sold for 90,000 euros, five times less than the advertising price. The ruling regime's parties then decide to pay 37,400 euros each month to this privatised TV set from the New Market city's budget. I note that the coalition in Novi Pazar has pledged to pay the money over the next three years, meaning 37,400 euros over the next 36 months. In this way, these alleged buyers will recover their allegedly invested money in less than three months, and the rest of this money will end up either in their private pockets or in the party register. This is a prime example of organized crime, and for this reason I ask the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime to plead on this matter. This isn't where the cases of the theft of money from the citizens of New Pazar end. Namely, the coalition in Novi Pazar awarded 36,200 euros to some phantom organization called the New Pazar Cultural Educational Community for alleged projects in the field of sports and social givings. However, this is an entirely anonymous organisation both in the field of culture and in the field of sports and social giving. In addition, the code under which it was registered in the APR 9499 does not allow it to deal with these areas. At the head of this association is party member Rasim Ljajic, I will not mention his name because he is obviously abused for these malfeasances. Because of all this, who knows which way I'm asking the Department of State and local self-government to carry out administrative oversight of the decisions and work of the City Administration in Novi Pazar and the Government to declare who allowed this debt?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49298	Thank you. We'll pass on the question. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49299	I would like to ask a question to the Ministry of Industry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the reason for this is the fate of the company "Luka" Novi Sad, which is the reason for the position of small shareholders, i.e. the initiative of small shareholders of this company. Last summer, information appeared in November that "Luka" Novi Sad was the only profitable state-owned company in Novi Sad that paid dividends of about six million and 100,000 dinars to the state as the majority owner. The state owns 99.38% of capital, and minority owners are workers and pensioners who hold about 0.62% so that they get a dividend by one share of 0.75 dinars and this amount is still reduced by tax. So, for example, one of the shareholders, a pensioner who has 61 actions, or 61 pieces of ordinary actions, as they say, has achieved a 38.86 dinar dividend. It would be funny if it wasn't sad. I will remind you that there are 11 ports on Serbia's territory, eight of which are on the Danube, all ports are privatised except for "Luke" Novi Sad. In most countries, America, Germany, France as examples, ports are in the hands of a state that makes infrastructure and then private capital comes and has its own assets within the port. The construction of infrastructure is extremely expensive, for example, by building a hundred metres of vertical key costs between two and three million euros, and we think that one of the reasons for the low use of river transport in Serbia is that large investment in ports, and we have heard that they are also privatised. Among the 24 most controversial privatisations, I will remind you, there is "Luka" Belgrade, which is subject to judicial proceedings, and other privatisations of port infrastructure are no longer discussed. "Luka" Novi Sad was founded in 1953, attempts to privatise it began in 2003. In 2009, the Executive Major AP Vojvodina and the City of Novi Sad asked then the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Privatisation Agency to exempt "Luka" Novi Sad from privatisation and trust in the management of the city and the province as well as in general use. I'll also remind those who don't know, and I guess most of them don't know, in the course of the crisis, the port achieved the biggest traffic when, in the end, for example, in 2012, it exceeded a million tons of overloads. A key role in preventing privatisation was played by workers "Luke" Novi Sad, who showed their union activities the resistance that led to privatisation so far avoided. In June 2013, the SNS replaced the then director without consulting the province and city authorities, who owned "Luke" alongside the state. After replacing the director, management was made possible exclusively by the state since the majority owner is now the one with 99.38% of the capital. The new director is former director of the Institute of Pulmonary Diseases in Sremska Kamenica, a specialist doctor. With all due respect, Doctor, but I don't think river traffic has anything to do with it. The small shareholders I told you about at the beginning, and you saw how small dividends they have, have raised objections to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the privatisation and way of working of the “Luka” company Novi Sad, and received a response from the Ministry of Industry on 26 January 2015, saying that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been given the legal option to decide whether to launch a privatisation process in companies where it is the majority owner, and therefore to decide on the future privatisation of “Luke” Novi Sad, or whether part of the capital will be transferred to employees and former employees without compensation. So I ask the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia plan to do with the "Luka" Novi Sad, will it respect the demands of small shareholders, such a profitable company, or will the "Luka" Novi Sad experience the fate of other ports in Serbia, and workers be fired? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49300	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49301	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question was addressed to the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, which concerns one law, which is the Law on Home Areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted sometime in 2008 to 2009 and which in practice proved to be very bad. What exactly has this law passed, and why do I find him extremely bad? First of all, until the law was passed on the territory of local self-government, there were local communities that had so-called local communities. The local offices, and those local offices had their own references. These referents were in every local community, so, regardless of whether it was a small village, a larger or less populated place, and by passing this law that was passed at the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, we got so-called. parent areas and motherhood instead of local community referencers. What exactly did this bring in practice? Unfortunately, we don't have any meat offices in smaller villages anymore, so unfortunately we have those smaller populated places shutting down, because when you don't have a local office reference you can take out your papers for example. Confirmation of the family community where you need a child, for schooling or for something else or a third, it automatically pulls people out of that place to move extra. The additional problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that instead of these, I have already said, we have a parent's report, and the law stipulates that the parents must be graduate lawyers. Or the referents who found themselves in that place at the time of the law, and they passed so-called. a professional exam. Now imagine you in one smaller place anywhere in Serbia in the hill-mountan flood where there is a place that has 1,000 full-aged residents, but they have a problem with the staff, that there is simply no graduate lawyer for the place of mother. When you hear all these problems then it is no wonder that our villages are shutting down and therefore I once again ask the Ministerial for Local Self-Government to prepare for the amendment of this law and to allow for what was before 2008, that there are simply local community referents, that they can also be with the fourth degree of professional training so-called. High school and it's totally normal. We've seen this just isn't good, and when something isn't good, it needs to be changed as soon as possible. My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture, and it concerns one problem that I have repeatedly presented in this National Assembly when we discussed amendments to the Law on Privatisation, which is enterprises that are in bankruptcy. In particular, this refers to the so-called “. ” Agricultural combinations which were in bankruptcy and which are so-called entrepreneurs or investors bought out of bankruptcy. In the bankruptcy mass when they took over the documentation of the bankruptcy managers, it was that the land where you have from tens of hectares to and over a thousand hectares of land in these agricultural combinations was led as land for use. People bought legal entities, invested huge money, I have such an example with PIK Oplenac company in Topoli where foreign investors are concerned and companies that haven't worked for decades have been launched, and now there's been a problem with the land where the Department of Land of the Ministry of Agriculture appears and says it's a property owned by state and that it has to go back to public competition for the award of the agricultural land. I ask the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Agriculture, so what is the basis for these investors to stay, especially in smaller areas, to expand production, to start, to hire people, if the basis is what they came for, and this is the land of the Ministry of Agriculture taken away from them? And so I simply ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Agriculture to make one coordination team that these problems are seen and that the more urgent these problems are solved, because I'm afraid that we will have one number of people who have come with serious investments in Serbia simply turn around and go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49302	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, who knows which time I will refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, this time I will ask him how much he cares about solving the problems of the successful, rather than the peaceful obligations of social enterprises under executive judgments? I asked that question on December 10th last year for the third time, and instead of the Prime Minister, Mr Sertic, who in his letter, by the old good practice of the ministries, this government, instead of answering the question, convinced me that in the last paragraph he would answer - in this regard we note that during the preparation of the report on the recording of the achievements, unsettled social enterprises' obligations following executive rulings for the work group's request, after which this report will be submitted to the government for consideration. Here's the thing. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision on the establishment of a Working Group to analyse the situation in connection with the execution of claims for work relations. Since the Republic of Serbia did not have a single and relevant record of the executive judicial rulings for an application from a working relationship which has not been settled, the Working Party proposed to the Government the adoption of a regulation on the recording of the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under executive decisions to seek out a working relationship, which would establish a total obligation as the basis for the proposed rules and for their reconciliation. I note that there are 82,486 workers from the Republic of Serbia, and from my Nis there are over 4,000. The subject matter of registration under the rules of achievement, the unaccompanied obligation on 31 December 2011 which has a social enterprise according to the decision to seek a working relationship which became enforceable by 30 June 2012 shall include the decided principal, interest account by judgment and the costs of the procedure. These are the obligations to pay these people off. After the registration was carried out, the government established a Regulation Working Group on 25 June 2015 to regulate how to regulate the achievements, rather than the compliant obligations of social enterprises, according to executive rulings for the request from the employment relationship. From June 25th 2015 until today, you can see what Mr Sertic replied on behalf of the government that a report on the recording of the achievements is under way, rather than the peaceful obligations of social enterprises. So, translated into Serbian, that we all understand that there's nothing since the payoff. So this government isn't capable of solving this problem. I would suggest to this government, because the situation is unsustainable and unsustainable for these people. You have an example that in Nis, for 22 days, Zoran Nesic, former MIN employee, special vehicles, which requires six and a half million dinars in the name of residual earnings, court judgments, taxis and interest, strikes a man with hunger, to support his family from the material security he receives at the height of ten thousand dinars. For rent alone, it gives 12,000 dinars. She has a wife and a minor child. He's doing physical jobs to make ends meet and there's no money to pay for utility services and public enterprises, he means EDB. I would suggest to this government, Mr. Vukic, if he wants to accept my proposal, since of this payment as far as I can see there is nothing, that this Assembly should bring in a Lex speciality that will allow the cesium between public enterprises, municipal enterprises, trustees, those who are in debt and the state that owes these people who owe public enterprises, to at least defend themselves against the possible seizure of judicial perpetrators, what remains of them from furniture and furniture. I ask the MPs, if we could express the Lex specialise in "Belgrade on Water", where private property is taken away to give another private person a profit, then we can declare a Lex specialise that will enable people to pay claims to public enterprises and public enterprises from the money owed by the state, which is essentially the founder of public enterprises and utility companies through local self-government. I ask you fellow MPs to consider this. This is not a political issue or a party issue. This is a question directly related to the 82,486 fate in Serbia, which is four thousand in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49304	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49305	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I was going to refer the question to the president of the National Assembly, but I can also ask you, and my question is addressed to fellow Members of the People's Parliament, any 80 colleagues can join my request to launch, not to launch an initiative, but to replace the president of the National Educational Council, who was elected in this assembly two months ago. It is about Professor Alexander Lipkovski, who was elected president of the National Educational Council two months ago, who before that in 2009, with a unanimous decision by all members of the Education Committee and after that by a joint decision of the National Assembly, was expelled from the National Educational Council as unworthy to perform that function, the conclusion that he had violated the reputation of his duties as a member of the Council. In fact, it was learned that Mr Lipkovski had performed several functions in secret, received more work fees, and then the 2009 National Assembly, in its composition, concluded that he was not worthy to be a member of the National Educational Council. This National Assembly has concluded that he is worthy of being president of the National Educational Council, but I do not suggest that we resolve him for something that happened seven years ago, but for an interview Mr Lipkovski gave as a member of the Dveri. I don't know if it was familiar to you when you elected him president of the National Educational Council, that he is a member of the Dveri, which is contrary to the law on the foundations of the education and education system, where he stands, I'll be very mild and I'll say he's having trouble with education. Namely, our president of the National Educational Council, my colleagues, please listen because we chose him and we can replace him, thinks that, says- does this mean that you're in favour of an elitist system in education? And Mr Lipkovski, president of the National Educational Council, answers – absolutely, and I had that attitude throughout my entire working century. In our country came a certain Finnish "expert" and advocated education "for all", immediately realized that our views differed and told me that I was an elite. He was absolutely right, because when it comes to education, I really think that his main goal is not mass, but the formation of an intellectual elite of a particular people. So we have a president of the National Educational Council who believes that education should not be available to everyone but should be a privilege of the elite. We have a president of the National Educational Council who believes that there are some international conspiracies against education in Serbia in order to destroy the Serbian people, to reform education in order to build a new one in line with the interests of the globalist order, to talk about the new world order, of course of Soroshe's Open Society Fund, criticises the concept of education for all, which I think should be the ideal that we all need to pursue, regardless of which party we belong, because it says that the education parol for all the dangerous trend of enlargement is covered by the cost of quality reduction. Our president of the National Educational Council, a colleague of yours, continues to talk about how we should have 5% of the people who are being educated, and on the other hand, those 95% of the broad masses that don't need education, who just need to watch TV and accept what's being served there. According to Serbia's education reform, part of the scientifically unsuccessful psychologists, motivated by foreign funding, strongly opposes, I think it will be interesting when Minister Vulin arrives, says the education system is the biggest opponent of building the elitist education he advocates. So, dear fellow Members, 80 MPs is enough when we are in an extraordinary session to apply for the replacement of this man, who is the president of the National Educational Council and to replace him, because you believe that he must not be a man who will decide on the education of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49306	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49307	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I am asking the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. On what basis is Dr Oliver Dulic employed at the orthopedic surgery and trauma clinic of the Vojvodina Clinical Center in Novi Sad? Is he employed by the competition? Where and when was the competition announced? Is the ban on employment respected, and has the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia obtained agreement? If we know there is a trial against Dr. Dulic, did he obtain the necessary confirmation that there is no court case, which the law requires in the course of employment? Is he perhaps employed through some competition of the government of the AP Vojvodina? According to unofficial information, Dr Dulic competed on the project at his home hospital in Subotica, which refused the project to accept KC Vojvodina, i.e. The orthopedic clinic, and the project would be done at the Emergency Centre of KC Vojvodina, where Dr. Vesna Pajtic, the wife of the province's Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic, is the director. The head of the orthopedics clinic, Prof. Dr. Savic, resigned as head of the orthopedic clinic because he did not want to participate in illegal activities. All clinic employees opposed Dr. Dulic's reception, since he has been out of the profession for 10 years and does not meet the conditions to work at the university clinic. Prior to this, Dr. Dulic was employed as Deputy Director of Banja Termal from Vrdnik, where DRI determined that he had been paid a salary of four average earnings, which is against the law and was violated by Article 2. Law on salaries in public authorities and public services. Yesterday, a new VD director of the orthopedic clinic, Dr Aleksandar Lasetić, was appointed, who does not meet the conditions under the KC Vojvodina statute for this post, since there is no calling of teachers at the Medical Faculty or Doctor of Science. The same doctor, Lassetic, has been removed from the position of the director of the South-Brand branch of the Republic Health Insurance Fund due to various malversions for which we are waiting for the response of the investigative authorities. A similar situation of violations of the statutes and the position of the director of Abdominal Surgery, Dr. Goran Ilic, from Sremska Mitrovica, who also failed to meet the conditions for the post. To remind the public, before that, Dr. Ilic was employed at a hospital in Sremska Mitrovica and when the investigative authorities began to investigate the supply of equipment at the same hospital, there was a fire that burned the entire fourth floor of the hospital. Like Bojan Pajtic was awarded and transferred to Novi Sad, to the mentioned workplace. The special hospital for pulmonary diseases, Dr Budisav Babic of the Bela Church, started building a new hospital in 2008 with funds for capital investment worth about 1 million euros, was due to be completed by 31 December 2009, but unfortunately, until today it is not finished. The director of the hospital, Dr Lidija Laketic, a prominent member of the DS Bela Church, was in custody because of the abuse of official position and malfeasance, and was later employed at the Institute of Pulmonary Diseases in Sremska Kamenica. We can cite many more of these examples of arrogant behaviour by Pajtic Dr Bojan, who has no respect for both professions, statutes and laws, but only the adoption of DS personnel, which cause serious consequences both in terms of material and in terms of providing health services to the people of Vojvodina. Incorrect and extremely bad is this all according to all the employees of the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, where they work extremely valuable and professional staff, and that the will of one man and his wife, who is the director of the Emergency Centre in Novi Sad, do what they do with personnel, staffing and hiring DS personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49308	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49309	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I have a question for the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs – what status does Mr. Djordje Mihajlovic, a man who has been caring for the Serbian military cemetery in Thessaloniki for more than 45 years, since a new man has been recently appointed to do this job? All of us sitting here and the whole Serbian public knows what kind of man it is. It is about a man whose grandfather was chairman of the Committee for the Construction of the Serbian Military Cemetery in Thessaloniki, whose father later took care of him and for more than 45 years Mr. Djordje Mihajlovic. I propose that the Ministry of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs form a monument building committee for Mr. Djordj Milicevic in the area of the Serbian Military Cemetery, and that the MPs participate with the initial funds to build this monument. I have another question for Mr. Minister of Education – is it true that there are workers in the education who have met both conditions for retirement, 40 years of employment and over 65 years of life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49310	Thank you. Since there are no more applications to ask questions, I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE CONTRACTION OF DISCRIMINATION OF PERSONS WITH INVALIDITY According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Alexander Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Vladimir Pesic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Tijana Prijic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49311	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this is the only amendment that the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS submitted to the bill and I spoke briefly about it in the principle debate. So we support the Bill of Law and the Government's willingness to change the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities, in practice, in the accession of these persons to state bodies, or public authorities, and, as you said, to banks and some other institutions. We have provided for this possibility in our amendment to verify the contract with public notebooks. The reason for not accepting this amendment is similar to what you said in the debate that the Secretariat of the Government's legislation, I suppose, considered it necessary first to introduce this change in this law, and then later to amend the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. At the end of the reasons for not accepting our amendment, you say it is necessary to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the law. I am only afraid, after the elections are followed, that these initiatives will not be nearly, that this right will be realised, and I repeat, from the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which tells them that the state must make available to them the free use of property and exercise of all other rights, that this idea will remain and the achievement of this idea with the amendment of the law, that it will not happen almost, especially given that the Director of the Secretariat for Law, who has also given this recommendation to the Government when the law is passed and when the amendment is passed, the occupied person, is chaired by RIK, even though it has been in resignation for a year and a half, so the question is how it will be possible for the government to achieve in these two months during the intensive work of RIK. Unbound right now, we think that this law itself is a lex specialis and that, in our opinion, it could, by this law, directly introduce that possibility and invite itself to verify the signature of public notebooks to the possibility that this law now introduces in the accession to the signing of public authorities, means in municipalities, banks and other institutions. We believe that the legislator could have a slightly more comprehensive attitude and accept our amendment. After all, you yourself said that you were thinking that way, but that the legislation said that some other order had to be done. We think it could have been through this law and in voting day we will vote for our amendment and we call on the MPs to support us in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49312	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49313	I thank the promoter, but as we said in the debate, we think it is necessary first to amend the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. The law regulates appropriate ways and should identify new ways to use faxicles, to use seals. We think this is a good way to go, but really no one should worry that we will continue to improve the position of people with disabilities in our society. Besides, the proof of that is that in this year and a half, the duration of the ministry's mandate, this is the third law in the area of improving the position of persons with disabilities. So, our government's orientation and our ministry's orientation is that and certainly won't break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49314	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49315	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, distinguished fellow MPs, this amendment, as it is, is not at all controversial and it remains only that question that we will not finish the job. I'm just sorry that your representative from the Labour Committee wasn't at the Committee meeting today when we discussed your amendment. They were also representatives of persons with disabilities organisations, and I can assure you that this job will continue, that this is only the first step. We fully agree with your proposal, but it is really impossible at this point legislatively to implement it in the short term. The possibility of using facsimile in a law that is intended to do so is not foreseen and we will go step by step. Serbia is becoming a slow country, so we don't have to do anything overnight and do anything fast, step by step, and we have assurances that we will do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49316	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49317	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I have no doubt that he had a good intention, but of course he shouldn't have accepted it. Why doesn't he have to accept it? Because one responsible government and one responsible ministry do not propose laws that are in collegiate with one another. By adopting this amendment, this law would be in direct collegiate with the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions, where Articles 12, 13 and 14 clearly and precisely regulated the certification of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts. What I must point out is that this government and this ministry, for the first time, by supplementing this Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, has introduced into the legal framework the possibility that persons with physical and sensory damage and other diseases can, instead of their signature, use a stamp with a etched identity, i.e. faximil. These are all reasons why this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49318	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49319	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs, agrees with the minister's explanation and with colleagues who spoke before me. This is a newspaper. It's only now being introduced as a possibility into our system. I think it's quite right to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and thus to make this matter comprehensively regulated. In principle, this amendment will not be accepted by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49320	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49321	I'll use my five minutes. So, I said in the debate in the principle that on behalf of the PRECRET Movement I would vote in the voting day for this law and that this law is solid, insufficient, but solid in the sense that I have no objections to these four members. I have submitted an amendment to this Article 1 and I will explain why... Yeah, yeah, I'll use five minutes. So, which is why I believe that the government was supposed to accept this amendment, even in an explanation of the refusal of amendments, accepted my arguments, it is only evident that it did not understand what I wanted to achieve with this amendment. I say - this law is not bad. And I have to say that since the government has been resigning solid laws, which would mean it would have been better if she had resigned since she was elected and possibly not done so much damage. For example, this article can be said that it will improve the position of disabled people, that they will be able to sign in a certain way, without difficulty, because they will have the technical device that will enable them and their handicap will be removed. However, what is controversial and what I have tried to correct through this amendment which has submitted the Turnover Movement is as follows: the position of the 2nd member states: "Isifications representing the form of a contract or any other legal transaction cannot be signed in accordance with paragraph 1" So Article 2 defines the exemption from the general rule set out in Article 1. However, if you interpret it in accordance with what is meant by legal work, you are essentially actuating this law. Why? Because legal work and buying tickets on the bus, and even what the legislator, or government, says in the explanation, is a divorce case. It's the same legal job. By setting 2 in an implicit way, you rule out the possibility of using that seal. And you say – everything that is legal work cannot be certified by this seal. The motion of the Turnover Movement was to add the word "terrestrial". Therefore, it would be that the seal cannot be used in the case of freight legal work, which would create a legal obligation for those who used the seal. The explanation says everything that my arguments are. However, the amendment is not accepted. So it's not in the position, gentlemen of the Ministry, not in position 2. The extended possibility of attitude 1, but the limited possibility of this attitude 1. And you say, no, legal matters include that, and you don't allow it to be inserted into the word "weighted" and you're practically adjudicating attitude 1 and you're saying that what I'm proposing could possibly be regulated by some other law. You're wrong. I just wanted it not to happen that some disabled person wants to use the stamp to verify some document and tell him – he can't do it, it's a legal job. And it's all legal work. Now I've explained to you what legal work is, and you've explained it in the rejection of my amendment. So a divorce case, some other procedure, etc. It's a legal job, it's not a cargo legal job, but it's a legal job. And you're practically making it possible in fact that this law won't be applied if someone interprets it extensively, if the legal work interprets essentially what it is. And the legal work is clear – it is the work that creates the obligation, material or other obligation for the participants in the business. For all of this, I ask you once again to accept this amendment, to respect these facts which specify and do not allow the extensive interpretation of this legal norm which, in some ways, threatens the very purpose of this law. Your explanation, please, read it carefully, goes in favor of my amendment, only you have misread my amendment. So, in order for this law to go any further in favour of persons with disabilities or not to happen without it being applied, I ask you and I suggest you accept this amendment. I will certainly vote in favour of this law, however, I'm afraid we'll have trouble applying this law tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49322	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49323	I thank the Proposer, but I must repeat once again the reasons why we are refusing this amendment. The proposal that lies before you does not serve to amend the second law. So what we're talking about is the subject of regulation of the second law. What we could have done was done within the law that is before you. So we meet the provisions of the convention that should have been adopted long ago. We can't change here, we can, the Assembly can do anything, but we don't see political justification and we don't see a legal justification for the Act to approve signatures, manuscripts and transcripts to be amended by this law. It's regulated by the Department of Justice, it's going to do it, I'm sure at the most recent time, we have this initiative. So in this way we have allowed the existing legal framework to be preserved, but at the same time, to enable one speciality for people with disabilities and to solve a problem that has been pressing people with disabilities for many years and this is a good way to solve it. But not in that way that we are now going to take over other people's powers and take over other people's powers and we here through one law begin to change another law. That's not where legal security is created. What's done is good, you admit it yourself, thank you for that. I'm sure that very soon the Justice Department will recognize the need to continue to deepen this institute, which you spoke of, which our law speaks of.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49324	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49325	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister, let's put it in order. First, the fact that the government, as we just heard from the minister, accepted this amendment, as the amendment's proposal said. I thank the minister who just gave one to say, a substantive explanation why this amendment should not be accepted. In my opinion, this amendment should not be accepted for essential reasons, but not for formal reasons. The underlying reasons are contained in the reasoning, or opinion delivered by the government. If the amendment promoter read the opinion, he could conclude why it should be rejected, which is why its amendment is unacceptable. In order not to read the explanation now, the minister has just explained it nicely, and the explanation is long. However, when it comes to formal reasons, I have no objection to the amendment's proposal being addressed or signed as it pleases, even as the leader of a non-governmental organisation, in a private transcript. When a personal memo can be addressed, it can be signed as it pleases. It can also be signed as Napoleon, as God of the sun, as king, and I don't know how. But what does that have to do with the National Assembly? So, in official assembly acts, that is not allowed. Imagine now that every MP would leave his parliamentary group and set up an NGO and begin to submit amendments and sign as leader of that NGO. That's impossible, that's inadmissible. For a very long time, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Risticevic and I have also indicated this situation. I think it's about time we broke up with that practice. One more sentence, given that the Syntagma is spoken that the government is in resignation or something. The government is not left behind, but there are MPs who are leaving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49326	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49327	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Socrates was, Mr. Martinovic, told – who knows he doesn't know, he already knows something. The amendment promoter has not yet understood the great Socrates, but I don't think he will understand in this National Assembly for the next decade. Such a political troupe will hardly return to this parliament after the next elections. Namely, I find this amendment messy. Mr. Martinovic, I've already told you to take care of it on your board. Here you see, the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the MP of Professor Dr. Name and Last Name, and the withdrawal of the Turning Movement. We don't have any MPs. Our function is called, how? People's ambassador. The rural parliament has persons whose calling is an MP. So either the province MP has strayed into this parliament, or there is simply no such function here. If there is no function of MPs, then there is no amendment of MPs, because amendments can be proposed by MPs, and it is written in the Rules of Procedure. Unlike the amendment promoter, I am not a lecturer at the Law Faculty or I am a law professor at the University of Novi Sad. I don't know what your students are learning, but I haven't learned anything, I've learned anything contrary to what the law says. The law also says that plagiarism, especially political parties, is forbidden. Political parties have obligations. Imagine tomorrow some MP, say, suggesting with vanity, swastika or with himself forming an association -- Donald Duck, Mickey, Shila, Politika's entertainer, so he can come here and submit amendments like Donald Duck. It's funny to you, but there's no law on NGOs, NGOs, etc. Citizens' associations, which require three members, there is no provision that it is forbidden to be in the name of the parties, in the name of the parties, to be the names of the parties as I have already stated - Paja Patak, Miki, Šilja, Politika's entertainer, but no such provision is applicable to citizens' associations. So tomorrow, we can actually have Donald Duck, Mickey, Shila, and maybe he's already shown up, I see there are some weird amendment promoters, he can show up here and suggest amendments. Imagine now that we have to consider it. That's one thing. Secondly, political parties have obligations, not only to voters, but to the Anti-Corruption Agency, to submit reports, etc., which associations do not have to. There are more obligations. For example, there is a political party's obligation not to finance from abroad, and associations can. Political parties cannot be advertised beyond election terms. Associations can. That's why I'm telling you that this is an unknowing attempt to plagiarize a political party. We, as MPs, party representatives and electoral lists, have no objection that the MP should propose any amendment and sign his name and name. We don't even mind starting political parties after the elections and acting like the heads and representatives of political parties. This is what it's like for me and for this legal one, and I'm explaining to the law teacher, for legal reasons, this is unacceptable. Secondly, on the matter of the overture, I agree with the government's opinion. I don't think it's just a cargo job, it's other jobs, but it's hard to explain to a lawyer. A hundred lawyers, a hundred opinions, and this is 101. It's the hardest thing for him to explain, because if he could be explained to him, it would be a lot easier for us here. So I believe the government is right when he suggested this. And finally finish. Gentlemen, you who are learning law also need to learn from Socrates that a little bit of applied knowledge is better than a lot of inapplicable knowledge. Because of that inapplicable knowledge, I ask that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49328	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, what I was able to understand in the presentation, was mentioned by the professor of Law School, which you did not. It's not your name or name mentioned, so I don't have a basis for replication. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49329	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister Vulin, a respected guest from the Ministry, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr Becic, was injured by Article 104. A Rules of Procedure to define the right of a member of the People's Parliament to a replica. It is obvious, Mr. Bečić, that Mr. Markovic and Risticevic commented on the amendment submitted by our colleague and colleague, Mr. Janko Veselinović, on this proposal. There is no dilemma for any person here that they have made a series of remarks and criticisms, even an insult to the amendment's promoter, Mr. Janko Veseinovic. The least you should have done, Mr. Becic, is now give Mr. Janko Veselinovic the right to a two-minute replica. I think it would be a complete consistent adherence to the contents of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49330	Mr Pavicevic, you have just said in one sentence that the MPs who spoke about the amendment spoke about the amendment and commented on their reasons, in fact gave their reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. I listened carefully to Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Markovic, they mentioned the amendment, but at no time did they mention Mr. Veseinović's name and name. At one point I thought he had a basis for replica, when Mr. Risticevic mentioned a professor at the university, but he mentioned a professor of law at the Faculty of Law, which Mr. Vesenović did not, he was a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture, so then I realized that it was not about Mr. Vesenović and I can't give the right to a replica of Mr. Vesenović when it comes to some professor at Law School, not a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is necessary. I thank you. The word is Mr. Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49331	Thank you. Article 107. Rules of Procedure. It is clear, therefore, that during the discussions, the previous two speakers from the SNS list were at least the words of the amendment and that their aim was to degrade and discredit the amendment's proposings. In this way, insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, for even in the discussion of the minister, with whom I do not know what kind of relations, there was a certain amount of respect for the law on the agenda and concerning persons with disabilities. Neither did I, nor did the minister, allow that political animosity to go down to the level of fighting over the back of people with disabilities. And I know what hurts them. They're in pain of buses. Where there were seven people in the O.R. last week, and I filled the O.R. at their stop last night.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49332	Mr. Veselinović, please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49333	So that's what this is about, talking about the truth...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49334	The election campaign hasn't started yet, not the campaign, the meetings, the stands, I don't think you should be doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49335	They're in pain with the fact that the Turnover Movement is a serious political entity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49336	Mr. Vesenovic, if the MPs who spoke about the amendment currently being debated had offended any MP, I would surely have reacted. They made objections to the amendment and gave their reasons that the amendment in this form could not be submitted, because it was not correctly stated that it was submitted by the MP by name and last name, but they spoke of some groups of citizens, associations of citizens and disputed the possibility that groups of citizens, associations and non-existent organisations would submit amendments. So, at no point did they insult the MPs, but they merely challenged the way in which the amendments were submitted. So I, as chairman, couldn't react. It is their right to give their reasons why the amendment should not be accepted because, according to them, the amendment in that form could not have been submitted. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49337	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that an injured and abused member of 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which enables the MP to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. The previous speaker misused the member and the possibility of turning to some political issues again, some thesis replacement, and one topic he should not mention at all. So, some joke, some expensive, some number of people. If on many occasions we have proved here that he had nine people present at the establishment of the Belgrade City Committee, his movement, it is not a party but a movement. So nine people present in a two-million-dollar city, in the capital, in the capital of our country -- and today he mentions an O.R. and some set, and some number of people, so it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49338	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I assume Mr. Veselinovic's observation was just in the direction you say. Mr. Risticevic mentioned three people present, and he wanted to, I suppose, say there were nine after all. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement to the Assembly? (No) Thank you. The amendment is being discussed by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49339	Thank you. Dear Chairman, this is indeed an example of how one of the best intentions to make life easier for disabled people is used for the wrong purposes. The submission of amendments that do not exactly aim to facilitate or further improve the legal proposals that are about to do so, facilitate the life of disabled persons, for political promotion is not good for anyone, nor for the applicants themselves. So, without wanting to use legal terminology and considering that what has really been mentioned by one of the previous speakers: "two lawyers - three opinions", the fact that it is possible to consider and interpret extensively or restrictively certain provisions of the law, but perhaps an esteemed applicant of this amendment, given the fact that, at the time of their authorities, many laws have interpreted them extremely extensively to the extent that they have been extended, so that they have always been implemented in favour of the protection and security of the interests of their ruling structure, now, out of fear that this does not continue, an amendment that, as explained, will essentially prevent the extensive interpretation of the proposed legislation and allow restrictive interpretation. However, the real intention of this Bill on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities is to facilitate the functioning of persons with special needs, and we really shouldn't bring this debate down to some kind of party promotion, but rather put aside our own party interests and turn to what is on the agenda, which is precisely the desire to help people with disabilities. This law does not need to change the practically existing system of legal overtures and credentials, but it allows for improvement and for people who really have special needs and disability to be able to handle such situations easier. Not every agreement or legal job has to be burdensome, nor a divorce case, but if it does, it will certainly have in mind other authorities and other ministries of opportunity to meet and improve the existing system of legal overtures and IDs. For this reason, I believe it is necessary to reject or not to vote for this amendment, and everything in the interest of the faster and more efficient resolution and improvement of the system that makes life easier for people with disabilities, which again the previous government has not done in its mandate, and here, we have now come into a situation and we want to thank and thank for the support and opposition and all MPs, calling for us not to use this topic and this bill to promote personal movements, political views or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49340	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go, Mr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49341	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I really don't see the dilemma proposed by this amendment, since in the last sentence of the reasoning why the amendment is not accepted is very explicitly indicated that the way to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is subject to a special law whose amendments could be one of the proposed facts. Therefore, it is very clear, and for this reason it is not necessary to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49342	Thank you, Mr. Giric. National MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Marković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49343	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we wanted to increase this amendment, to sharpen penalties for institutions that do not respect this legal solution. It is a wish that through this amendment as well as to point out examples of some laws that we have passed in some previous councils, where companies, institutions, businesses, whether the republican, whether the city, did not respect them, were easier to pay than to hire a person with disabilities. So they avoided the legal obligation, and they practically came up with a good bill, where the state wanted to contribute to improving the employment of people with disabilities. That, unfortunately, is not rare in Serbia for many legal solutions to be avoided in one way or another. Here many companies have found a way to avoid this legal solution by paying the fine and thus being clean under the law, while disabled people remain in the same position. So they stayed in that position that they didn't have the opportunity to encourage that employment. That's what I think we agreed two days ago, when we talked about how much harder it is to bring down not architectural, but barriers in people's heads, and that many employers think that a person with disabilities is not useful, that it's easier for him to pay a fine than to just give a chance for a decent work, for a decent life of that person. So, through this amendment, we're just drawing attention to these past examples and we're afraid for examples that will follow in the future. One law we all voted unanimously for was the Dog Guide Act. It's one European law, one great law. During the few months after the law was passed, we had in the media information that the President of the Association of Blind and Failing White Stick Mrs. Vesna Nestorović, called Coca, was practically expelled from the city tramway, where the driver was not informed, where practically the company, the city's traffic company, did not inform its workers that the blind and weak-sighted persons had the right to the guide dog and that they were practically unable to function without it, could not go to the hospital, could not go to the bank, could not drive if they were not with him. This is one of the examples where very soon after the law was passed, it is up to us to tighten the penalties, but what is more important with the story and education of the population, by talking to the citizens, we promote the importance of caring for people with disabilities. I'll tell you an example from Nis. There's a printery in Nis where people with disabilities work. The press is called "Vuk Karadzic". Prints, like every printing print book, print calendars, print all that some printing does. They work under very difficult conditions and I can tell you that the state gives, helps and supports such a way of working people with disabilities. What pains me, which pisses me off as a MP, is not the concern of the director of the republican firms, city firms, who are easier to go to other printery to do business with some private printing press, and this printing works that is practically under the auspices of your ministry, the Republic Government, where the state is behind it, is not a priority for many directors. I know that those people out there who are disabled are working in difficult conditions, doing decent work, and that's spreading consciousness, that's those barriers in the heads of our citizens, our officials in certain self-government, certain companies that I don't know how to explain to them, why they don't order it in that press, and why they give priorities to some private printers, I won't want to think that maybe it's a percentage or that some firm that's close to one of those directors, but I want to fight for people with disabilities to have a chance to work, to make a decent profit of their money and to feel equal to a member of this society. So through several examples alone, it showed where we have good laws, where the state stands behind people with disabilities, and in the field, and in practice it is not respected. So, through this amendment, we are going through a little more punishment for institutions that would not respect the application of this law, but through this amendment we are also sending a message to the government that we need to be even stronger in support of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49344	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49345	I would like to thank the motionor for his initiative. The reason we will not accept this amendment is clear. These are amendments to the law, and the law as such has a whole range of penalties and it would be really wrong to make an exception here right now. More important than anything else, it is really to draw attention, of course, to the position of people with disabilities and to take care of it, essentially criminal policy rarely manages to solve all problems. You cited an example after which City Traffic apologized, the driver will be punished, I believe it won't happen again, but from your work, you will surely remember that a boy with an autistic boyfriend was kicked out of the theater. What law and what punishment, how do you now pass the law by which you'll explain to a guard there that he can't get an autistic kid out of the theater? There's no law. There's no punishment for such behavior, there's education. I went right away to see what actually happened and to show solidarity with that child and his parents and to be honest, I'm not sure what kind of training it takes to be a human being, to recognize that the child has autism and that you can't treat him the same way as some naughty boy. I don't know, I can't say which law would solve it and which training would solve it, but among other things, and such discussions and conversations, it's decided that people understand what it is, at the very end of the line, what it means to be a human being when something like this happens. In particular, when you mentioned the printing industry, we have 49 such companies in our system, 26 are privately left in state or social property, my ministry has made appropriate recommendations and this government has adopted, that they are self-determining whether they want to go into the privatisation process or not, which I think is very important to them. We also provided adequate funds, 750 million dinars were spent last year to subsidise their profits, as well as persons who are training them, as well as travel expenses. We've secured the money for the repromatter, and we've secured some new machines. We hope that some future legal solutions will be one of the laws, which I hope will be passed very quickly after the elections, is a law on social entrepreneurship, where, among other things, we would regulate this matter, so it might even be possible to think about a certain part of the public procurement being reserved at a certain percentage for enterprises that employ persons with disabilities or persons passing through the Social Entrepreneurship Act. In this way, you would solve this problem, because on the one hand you have to regulate it so you don't break the market, you can't order someone to have to do this or that, because and someone who invested their money, made their own company, did their own printing, but on the other hand you have to provide one positive discrimination. This could be the mechanism. It's a worldwide mechanism, we didn't invent it, that a certain percentage of the market is reserved for precisely these enterprises, of course under the same conditions as for others, the same price, the same quality, etc. So we'll work on it for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49346	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49347	Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, when we discussed this bill in principle, we provided one consensus here on the introduction of new mechanisms preventing discrimination between persons with disabilities, and it was particularly important for me to stress that here in the National Assembly we have this kind of consent. It seems to me, Minister Vulin, that in the case of this amendment, which was explained on behalf of the DS by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, the force of argument is still on the side of Professor Milisavljevic. I've volunteered to point out, here's my observation that maybe one more time he's thinking about accepting this amendment. Here, let me offer my argument. Therefore, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic has proposed a stricter criminal policy for those legal persons who refuse to allow the use of the services by signing with the help of a stamp containing personal identity information or with the help of a stamp with a engraved signature of a person with disabilities. Then that strengthens the criminal policy in the future. Minister Vulin answered us, I think exactly and precisely, here's what Minister Vulin said. Minister Vulin said - the amendment cannot be accepted because a stricter criminal policy in the case of this bill would violate the balance of the amount of fines envisaged not only in this one but also in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. So the argument on the part of the legislator is that accepting this amendment would violate a certain kind of balance when we talk about penalties for violations of the content of this law and another law that is related to it. I then conclude by the logic of things that by disrupting the balance we do not come to a situation that we have conflicted content within one law or between one law and another. It's important to me that we have compliance with the legal rules. This argument of distortion of balance, I think even goes in favour of Dr Dusan Milisavljevic's argument, precisely because of the example he cited and because of the example set by Minister Vulin here. Minister Vulin told us here himself that he has this example, that he has that example and how to treat these people who act against these people by disrespecting these regulations. It seems to me, Minister Vulin, that this is exactly why criminal policy needs to be tightened, so that one news should be released after our session here today, that precisely because we have many examples of violations of what are regulations, disrespect for the rights of persons with disabilities, that this is why we want to tighten our criminal policy against offenders. In addition, Minister Vulin, to go to further education. A man who's faced with the knowledge that there's a sharp criminal policy in case he breaks these rules, so he'll probably think a little bit more about how to behave. I believe, Minister Wolin, that's exactly what you said. That what Mr. Milisavljevic said is true, but that the amendment should be accepted for the same reason. I think that accepting this amendment would really be appropriate, humanely, show one special sensitivity to all of us in the legislative body, in the executive authority to people with disabilities. That is why I suggest that one more thought be given to accepting the contents of this amendment and that, Mr Vulin, you do not apriorly reject amendments of MPs from opposition parties, because I have analysed a little bit, I am dealing with the submission of amendments, a large number of my amendments have been accepted. You are in this group of ministers who do not want to accept the amendment of the opposition. I ask you to eliminate this approach if it exists and you may look to the examples of Minister Mihajlović, Minister Dacic, Minister of Udovic, Minister of Udovic, Minister Ljajic and other ministers who are not hesitated, Minister Vulin, to accept a large number of our amendments. Here, last week, Ivica Dacic accepted all our amendments, using the power of argument, respected by gentlemen, the argument of expertise. I think, Minister Vulin, that if there is any thought about it – well, who submitted the amendment? So let's eliminate that. We have moved here at least for this step, to say that the acceptance of the opposition amendment is in the spirit of parliamentaryism, and I guess that this spirit of parliamentaryism here we should all cultivate and ensure full consent, as we have provided for the support contained in this bill. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49348	Time, thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49349	An explanation, because, you know, it would then open up a whole series of other discussions. Then it would be a question of, let's say -- if there was any other form of discrimination, because this wasn't regulated. So we're only talking about discrimination here, about the ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, but the law we're talking about, the whole of the law talks about a number of other forms of discrimination that don't apply to people with disabilities. Now you would go to measure whether the greater penalty is a higher penalty for someone who has committed discrimination against a person with disabilities or on some other basis, such as nationality or skin color. So we wouldn't do that anyway, we wouldn't be going in right now. I am grateful that you quoted all these bright examples of congregation debates and acceptance of amendments. Whenever the amendment is substantial and whenever the amendment changes something fundamentally, I accept it. I will remind you, in the Labour Act, we have accepted a very important amendment that the opposition has given, which has been accepted because we have thus further strengthened and protected the position of maternity in the Labour Act. Yeah, you see, we're taking care of it. And now "shut up, wipe out, screamer, question mark" I'm sure in statistics they give fascinating figures and I'm sure they give a great example of how much someone contributed to the congregation's debate, but contentally I'm not convinced, and until I'm convinced, I won't accept such arguments and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49350	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49351	I would just like to remind myself that if the representatives of the government today or from some new parties are pushing for a tightening of criminal policy, then we could reach the point of view that it is possible to advocate the return or reintroduction of the death penalty into the criminal system. But, in a particular case, in the spirit of parliamentaryism, I really think that this assembly and parliament, and also this Government is one of the bright examples of how to treat the opposition and how to respect and respect the opposition's position when it is justified and when it is justified in a valid manner. I would really agree with the finding that the fascinating number of distinguished amendments to linguistic or technical character, sign character, which, if we add how many times it's adopted, makes one impressive number. However, there are those of us who were once MPs at a time when the pro-Western or Democratic Party came to power after 2000, even when we submitted amendments with a very clear argument. Here I will give you an example, my personal one, based on the fact that it must be respected, let's say, the adoption of a set of the Justice Act, constitutional law guaranteed to everyone that they can apply to a competition under a nebulous explanation one such amendment has been rejected and with opposition from the ruling majority, and with opposition from the minister of the time. Among us are MPs who were in this assembly, so that six months later, under the same reasoning, the same amendment would be found on the agenda of the assembly, under the motion and signed by the government minister. It's a negative example and that's how it used to be done. Today, during the government, whose head is Alexander Vucic, with all the ministers you've counted, with Minister Vulin here today with us, we all try to respect the valid argument, improve the proposals of the laws on the agenda, according to the arguments put before us. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the argument or argument that criminal policy is tightened in a particular case will not contribute to the increased fear of those who eventually find themselves in a situation to challenge the rights of the disabled who are practically instituting themselves by this law, but again, it is here to show that the spirit of parliamentaryism has been violated and my humble opinion, with thanks again to all the representatives of the opposition who will support this bill, is that we should reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49352	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49353	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs, this amendment should certainly be rejected because it is not the point of criminal provisions that they are inapplicable. What you've suggested for one of the seniors in the theater will be inadmissible if we know what the salary of that divorce is, and this government does not want to be horrified, but to bring our citizens' education closer to the problems of people with disabilities. You can't measure by some monetary value the mental pain of that child or his parents, which was thrown out of the theater. So there is no bill that can be paid, but in another way we can inform our citizens how to treat people with disabilities, to simply accept them as themselves and to act in that direction. No harsh criminal policy will contribute to a better relationship. Education, prevention, life with them and allow them to be equal with us. This is the goal of this government, and the fact that you have little amendments to the laws that come from the Ministry of Labour is just an indication that the Ministry of Labour is doing its job well, both in that direction regarding work and social policy, and in that other part of the texting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49354	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49355	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I can understand the good wishes and good intentions of the promoter, and we all agreed that this is a good legal solution, that a change of consciousness, a barrier in our heads, is necessary. However, as regards amendments to Article 3 of this Act, and as regards criminal provisions, I propose and call on all MPs to reject this proposal, not that I may not consider these penalties and should be greater, however, the main reason why I propose it is that in the roof law of this area, which is the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, the same provisions, criminal provisions, the same range of provisions as in this proposal supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination of persons with disabilities are laid down. That's why I'm calling on all my colleagues to refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49356	Thank you. The National MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49357	Here I am in the O.R. Evidence for those who paint that the opposition is not in the O.R., and in fact they are not in the O.R., alive and well, and I want to make clear what I meant to say about the amendment to Article 4. This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the Turnover Movement constantly in its amendments, i.e. predicting that there is a clause in the law that will oblige the Government to report once a year what it has done under the law? It is not a practice that would be established in Serbia without being parallel in other countries. This clause is normal everywhere in the world in serious countries and it is an obligation and constitutes an act of Parliament's supervisory function over the government. This means that our discussion today could be viewed like this – well, you all said what you thought, the opposition criticised the law, in this case very moderately in a way to fix it and because practically everyone said they would vote, the position praised the law, the government, etc. But within a year comes this same government and says – here are the effects of law enforcement, so many and so many documents certified in this way with the seal, so many people took advantage of it and so on, etc. One of the ministers in this government told me that this government does not, Mr Vujovic, have the capacity to comply with that provision. Why does she have the capacity if she can't control the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49358	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49359	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, says the amendment promoter - the same government is coming in a year. Yeah, in a year, the same government comes, no problem, just before. I propose that this amendment be rejected for all of those reasons that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered to us in its explanation. And when it comes to pictures and the presence of MPs in the hall, I am pleased that some opposition MPs are finally in the hall, among other things, proposing the amendment. It hasn't been such a common case lately. They're mostly not in the O.R. We had opportunities last night to see the empty two benches of opposition MPs, but well, that's something that speaks of them. I've already said, I suggest that this amendment be rejected for all those reasons we've read in the explanation. I would just like to highlight the difference between political parties and the movements of various, or associations of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49360	Mr. Markovic, please return to the amendment. Please, because I have reported many MPs reporting for replication. Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49361	The amendment says - The government submits an annual report to the National Assembly through the committee responsible on the effects of the application of this law. The government certainly reports to the National Assembly. I don't know what's unclear about that, and I don't know if anyone has that dilemma in that sense. So aside from that, the explanation of the amendment is again a lot of written errors. The proposal for an amendment in the explanation says – with due regard, I do not know what it means with consideration, so I do not know if my colleague Risticevic has read and noticed the mistakes. So the difference between the movement and the party is that in order for the party to exist it has to have a programme, statutes, ideology, membership. The movement, which is the proposer of this amendment, so we haven't seen the program, the statutes probably have, no ideology because the movement leader has changed all possible parties. He's got nine members. So for all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49362	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49363	I would like to thank the motionary. We can't accept the amendment. As you know and as we have explained, the government normally reports on what it does and how certain laws have passed. When it comes to this particular law, in particular, he also has the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, to whom this is the main law, to which this is the Constitution. He certainly gives his report to the National Assembly who chooses him, so when this law is specific, there is no room for something special to be done. But let me just point out the practice of the Ministry that I run. We and how do We account for the laws and for their effect and for what they used to do. I'll give you an example. The labour law next week goes before the Social-Economics Council, where we did the analysis, where we're going to show what the effects were, what happened. With great pleasure to tell you right away, it happened to be a good law, a law after which there was no mass layoff, a law after which there was an increase in employment, not a reduction in employment. So we're proud to be able to go to the Social-Economic Council and show it and say it. We have also defended all our laws against the relevant bodies after their application and with pleasure every MP, whoever is interested, can contact the Ministry of Labour, with pleasure we will provide an analysis of each of the laws we have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49364	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49365	Thank you. I'll just add one more thing. Otherwise, counterpart Markovic and minister have already presented the reasons why the amendment to Article 4 should not be accepted. In my view, the basic reason for not accepting the amendments to Article 4 stems from the non-recognition of the methodology for making legal rules. This lack of knowledge of the methodology for the production of legal provisions refers to the fact that Article 4 is the last member of this Bill and it constitutes a final provision in legal terminology. The final provision lays down the date of entry into force of one law and that is what the competent ministry has provided for in Article 4. Thus, this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in “The Official Messenger. ” Thereafter, no additions may be made to the amendment's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49366	Thank you. Mr Mirjana Djokovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49367	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I would just like to say that Serbia as an open and tolerated society really gives equal opportunities to all Serbian citizens, and it also has a strategy for people with disabilities. I would agree with my fellow MPs who have just been put on the stand that this amendment should be rejected for the reason that we here a few months ago in this National Assembly have chosen the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and I am absolutely in agreement that this institution is in charge and that it collects all discrimination. It is she who reports to this National Assembly. Therefore, there is no need to add some competences and to agree on a complex situation in our society anyway. I truly believe that our government is indeed a government that has proved to be socially responsible and as a government that really gives particular attention to people with disabilities and also to our resolute ministry, as Mr. Vulin has said, indeed, so far passed three laws concerning disabled persons, even when it comes to the employment of those persons, so I absolutely believe that there is no place for such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49368	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49369	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am still asking for this amendment to be rejected because it is non-business, because it is anti-constitutional. I have not disputed the right of any fellow MP to propose amendments. He says, "Here I am in the O.R. It's a reflection of respect for the disabled. I'm here in the O.R. to talk. Until then, he was present with a ghost card, and then he flew into the O.R. to speak, catch and start photographing, which is also against the rules in this National Assembly. I don't mind. That's what they would have taken pictures of if they had stayed in power. But it would be worth checking how many cards were in the system before that. That would be interesting to see, but I don't insist on it. I didn't mess up. I would support this amendment on behalf of the disabled, I would probably support it because you can come to disability by birth or during life, especially you can be at risk for work and war. We farmers, who for centuries had one hand on the plow, and the other on the sword, we workers who for centuries had one hand on the mat, and the other on the rifle, we were always at increased risk of being disabled. And today, pickers, combs, agricultural machines, machines cost money, people lose their limbs, lose their health at work, at work. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that in the last ten years we have lost it in the war. And that's why I would support this amendment if reports were submitted to the National Assembly so that we could see how much attention we approach those who have lost parts of their bodies at work, in the war, lost their health, etc., and that they have become subject to this law, that they cannot be signed, etc. I think it's worth the attention that anyone who strengthens that kind of regulation, makes legal corrections, should be supported and such an amendment should be accepted. I'd be willing to do that. I also remember Blago Kazandzija and his son, which best depicts the parable “All these people will be gilded ” which, during the former regime’s party, reads, about,“ all these people will be rebuked. ” So they didn't take care of the disabled enough. Today we who correct their regulations are the subject of this criticism. I would have accepted that amendment, but I still insist on it. Article 161 provides for the right to submit a proposal to amend and supplement the amendment to the Constitution by an authorised legislator of the law. Every MP shall have the right to propose laws and other general acts. Let's see what the Constitution says, Mr. Martinovic, you are the chairman of the Committee, the National Assembly makes 250 MPs, and goes on – elections for MPs... And someone who criticises the government in the last year and a half should say that he changed four organizations, only Jehovah’s Witnesses were not yet. The term of office of the People's Messenger will now be shortened in the elections, says the People's Messenger, Article 102. The Constitution, it can't be an MP. That's what the Constitution says. This is not what Marian Risticevic invented. I don't teach law at college, but I know so much. The amendment was submitted by an MP, and the Constitution says, "The MP cannot be an MP." Therefore, I continue to claim that these amendments are messy, along the way it is a little illiterate to write in the explanation "with consideration". I don't know that word in Serbian. I'm really worried about the quality of teaching our students on these issues. So I say, I would accept this kind of amendment, but in our regulations it stands, and that's what law doctors should know, that information about their work of the ministry gives more to the National Assembly than a year, as suggested here, every three months. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you remember that, and your duties. So I prefer that you do it four times over a year, than once, as the amendment promoter suggests. I believe my fellow MPs will agree that it's for free that I share advice, because when you share advice, it's like donating organs. If the endangered organism does not accept it, the advice is in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49370	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now I'm taking a break for an hour. We continue work at 13.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dear People's MPs, because of the situation that the Committee on Culture and Information is working and discussing amendments to which the Government has delivered its opinion, I am giving a regular break until 15.00 hours. Once again, I apologize to all the MPs who came after the break, but you must understand that the Committee on Culture and Information continues to discuss the amendments submitted and that unfortunately we must give another break by 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49373	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, we have submitted the amendment to Article 4 by changing and adding the following words in point 3: "charms, applied, visual art, design, architecture and artistic photography". We have explained that we believe that an unwarranted artistic photograph from cultural activities is being left unwarranted, and I ask Mr. Minister to consider accepting our amendment, in order for this member to be more complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49374	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49375	The art photo falls under visual art, so it's a fully regulated term.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49376	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Stojkovic, Mirjana Andric, Aleksandar Jugovic and Nebojsa Tatomir. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo, joint MPs Marko Djurisić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to use the time of an authorized parliamentary group. For days, amazing things have been happening that have finally culminated in your amazingly fast reading of the amendments. The board hasn't finished yet, and you're on your way with the session. It's just amazing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49378	Mrs. Karavidic, do you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49379	I speak as authorized... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49380	Do you want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. Article 7 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49381	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49382	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Article 8 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49383	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49384	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Mr. Miroslav Marinkovic has the word. Here you go. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have injured the Rules of Procedure. 106th and 107th. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I am sure that you have been informed that the session of the Committee on Culture and Information has lasted eight hours today, in which not only the MPs of the opposition and I, as its president, participated, but all of your fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49386	Are you going to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49387	Don't interrupt me. You didn't wait till we got out of the O.R., and Mr. Secretary... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49388	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The session of the Committee is over, the Committee's opinion has been shared with the MPs, pointed out by the Parliament and all conditions have been obtained to continue the session after the break, which was after 13.00 hours. We didn't expect the Committee to last eight hours, but MPs are eager to continue their session and speak of the law. So, I'm sorry. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49389	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the amazing thing that happens normally is that it results in a large number of amendments that we have not received on the Committee either, but I will read the amendment to Article 9 which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group – Boris Tadic, ZZS, ZS. We have proposed that Article 9 be amended and Article 17 is amended and read – Council: 1) discusses and gives an opinion on the proposal of the Culture Development Strategy and gives an assessment of the implementation; 2) examines the work versions and drafts of the laws and other regulations in the field of culture and gives an opinion on them; (3) gives an opinion in the process of granting the status of cultural institutions; (4) gives an opinion in the process of granting recognition for the highest contribution to the culture of the Republic of Serbia; (5) gives an opinion in the process of awarding and recognition for the highest contribution to the culture of the Republic of Serbia; (6) analyzes and gives an opinion on the state of culture in the Republic of Serbia; 7) gives suggestions for the development and promotion of cultural activities; 9) proposes criteria for the acquisition of the status of prominent artist, i.e.e. the prominent expert in culture;) determines the status of a prominent artist, i.e.e. 11) gives suggestions for development and promotion of culture, as well as international education, education and education, etc.; 12), he also performs other tasks. In the light of this amendment, we believe that in this way the powers that this law requires are defined more precisely, which was not the case with Article 9 on which we put the amendment. I ask the Minister to consider and accept our amendment and to make a positive decision to amend the amendment in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49390	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49391	I thank you for your discussion. However, I must tell you that we have just tried very clearly to improve our co-operation with the National Council for Culture, while clearly sharing competences. Since the National Council for Culture is being made and should be made up of top cultural experts, it simply seems to me that our co-operation is not only institutionally, but represents a constant dialogue. So it seems to me that here they simply prevent certain misunderstandings that occasionally appear in public and very often have nothing to do with art itself, but with some other elements. That amendment was not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49392	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm wasting my time on an authorized parliamentary group. All your attempts to hide what happened in this building today are...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49394	Mrs. Karavidic, do you want to speak by amendment? I won't let you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49395	I have the right to make an introductory sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49396	If you claim that after nine hours of work, someone wants to hide something in the National Assembly, you are really not correct with the MPs who waited nine hours to begin the session. I'm sorry. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mr. Bradich. Please don't let Mr. Bradic finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens, we have tabled an amendment to Article 9, which amends Article 17, and given that the principle of the legislator of the law is relative, I will once again explain this amendment, hoping that you will accept it, as you have essentially accepted our proposal for an amendment to a member relating to national pensions. Okay, I'm not getting any help from the Prime Minister here, but... So we are this Article 9, i.e. Article 17 of the original law changed, i.e. propose in a different form, because we believe that our amendment specifies the work of the National Council on Culture's work round and thus enables the work of this significant professional advisory body to be done more effectively and conditions are created for its wider participation in considering issues of particular importance for culture, particularly in the area of legislation. I reiterated what my fellow MPs said, hoping that the assembly majority would understand the justification of our proposal, and calling for our insistence on national pensions in the principle debate, when you were strictly against it. I see you've changed this way of thinking, and I'm asking the Minister, who is considered a principled man, to remain consistent with the first idea that there will be no national pensions, i.e. National recognitions, and in this debate, Mr. Minister, and to accept this amendment because we think it is more precise and clear, as far as this member is concerned. They also thank you Nišli for your great attention for cutting the grass around the foundation of the National Museum.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49398	Thank you. Mrs. Marjanovic, do you want a word on this amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49399	This amendment refers to the powers of the National Council for Culture and despite all the nice words of Mr. Minister, who, I repeat, has today ignored the eight-hour Committee on Culture, which has been held an argumentable debate on many essential issues, including issues concerning the National Council for Culture, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49400	Please, do you want to talk about the amendment? (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: You can't interrupt me. I thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: Rules of Procedure. You can do it by the Rules of Procedure. I gave my word to Mr. Tasovec. So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not gonna let that happen. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49401	Dear Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to thank all the members of the Committee on Culture and Information and to draw attention to the fact that today there have been four mandated representatives at that session and I think they have made a full and adequate contribution and have absolutely respected the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, I deeply appreciate the length of the debate itself, but I honestly think the debate itself deserves to be conducted in front of all 250 MPs. That's why I'm here, and with great pleasure we will continue the discussion of each amendment individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49402	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is a National MP, Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49403	Mr. Chairman, you are seriously insulting Parliament's dignity and office as chairman of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49404	Please, what member? (Natasa Vukkovic, from the post: Please give every MP the first right to speak according to his rights. You're disturbing opposition MPs to speak of their amendments. Please give me your word. I can't give you my word because you didn't call the member I broke. (Nataša Vučković, from the place: Yes, Art. 107, 106 and 105) You haven't called. I ask you, no MP in this assembly will be interrupted if he respects the Rules of Procedure and speaks of the amendment which is the subject of the debate. (Natasa Vukkovic, from the place: Can I have a word? You'll get the word. I beg you, just as Mr. Bradic was not interrupted, at no point was he interrupted, because he was talking about the amendment. I am obliged, because of MPs who have waited all day, not to let us now in the Great Hall talk about amendments, but to talk about some other topics, to address questions, even though it is not a day for questions. So I ask you to talk about the amendments and you won't be interrupted once, anything you say about that amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49405	So, you violated the right of the MP to speak of the amendment he filed, by being in the second sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49406	Thank you. I didn't hurt the MP. I warned the MP not to talk about the amendment. When the MP kept saying something that wasn't the subject of the amendment, I had to interrupt it. (Nataša Vukkovic, from the place: Let me speak. I thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49407	Article 103, of course, Mr. Becic. You now not only do you not allow this session to run normally, but you do not allow the MPs to explain what they think is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know how you think this House is discussing this law, obviously in the way Mr. Tasovac fits, but please don't abuse the Assembly for the daily needs of individual ministers. We need to talk about this law in a serious way and you have a duty to provide such a thing. The first way you started this session, not you, because you didn't organize today's work, is scandalous. We really didn't come down from the Committee session when the session started, when you read eight members, among them, of course, and the most controversial one you didn't want to talk about. So either let us work on the Rules of Procedure or tell us it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49408	What position of Article 103? Entire Article 103 or what position? (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: Whole Article 103.) All of it. Okay. Would you like to vote on the injury? (Yes) Thank you. Here's a word for Gordana Komic. I see you're holding the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49409	Thank you. It's a bit unusual, since you haven't done any damage to the Rules of Procedure, as president of the National Assembly and chairman, but you have the previous injured member of the 27th, who obliges him to take care of the order at the National Assembly session. The order was violated during the conduct of the chairman-in-Office of the National MP Branka Karavidic, the MPs of Vesna Marjanovic and the MPs of Natasa Vukkovic. In all three cases, without insistence in the Rules of Procedure, excluding microphones and taking away words practically, without the possibility that the MPs who have explained the amendments actually do so, or the MP who has been called upon to harm the Rules of Procedure, to really explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. I feel that, first of all, I have an understanding that this working day is unusual, but I find it completely unnecessary to break Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly bring unnecessary anxiety and a tone of provocation to work on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, which lasted on the Committee on Culture, for several hours, eight hours, and which ended up gathering MPs to be ready to continue the debate on amendments to the tide. So, there's no reason, except for the intention of breaking Article 27, I don't see in this behavior. What MPs are going to talk about their amendments have done on the Committee, and it is indeed a great effort for all parliamentary groups to do the best we can on all important laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49410	Thanks, time. Thank you. The Vice President has just tried to use Article 27, and it would be good for us all to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and when we look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we act like you did before and call on the right member so that the chairman can follow it correctly, if anyone is interested in this answer at all. I agree that it is very unusual for someone to have a hearing for nine hours on the Committee on Amendments, and that there are objections as to why the chairman began the session. (Vesna Marjanović, from the scene: We didn't have five minutes to get out of the O.R.... What's the problem? So MPs who were in the O.R. less valuable than MPs who would enter the O.R. a little later. Turn your eyes, shout – come on, come on, come on, come on, I'm used to such manners when there's no argument. I think we are now attending, my deep conviction, we will vote of course on all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, (Gordana Komic, from the place: No, I am not asking. Thank you. So you shouldn't vote on Article 27. We have a sequel to what was happening on the board. (Gordana Comic, from the place: No, that's the problem. There was a real debate on the board. We do, so I ask my colleagues to refrain so that not all of us will participate in what was obviously prepared earlier, just not by the chairman, as you wish to say, but on your part. Obviously dissatisfied, the amendments in favour of artists who have the right and will continue to be entitled to a national pension, however, originated by the ruling majority, or the Prime Minister, and that is the essence. Here you go. Zoran Babic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 does not vote, Gordana Comic pleads.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49411	Madam President of the Infringements of Rules of Procedure, Rule 106(1) and Articles 75 and 77. It's not clear to me how it comes down from the session, as my colleague said earlier, but I'm leaving it very well for free interpretation. What is annoying, Madam President, under Article 75(1) of the Committee's position, is that the Committee member has the right to speak for up to 10 minutes in the context of a general search and in the context of a search in particular, and the applicant shall speak for up to 20 minutes. Today at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, we never wanted to advertise this article 75, because we wanted to discuss amendments to the amendments to the Law on Culture, although these discussions came out of the Rules of Procedure, although the Committee members spoke many times for 10 minutes, not a total of 10 minutes, even though the promoter spoke for more than 20 minutes, even though the MPs who did not speak as much as they wanted, and about what they wanted. This showed the good will of the SNS to discuss amendments to the Law on Culture, as we now wish to discuss with the sitting itself. But that's why we support you too, Mrs. Gojkovic and Mr. Becic, so you can't talk about anything anyone wants. About whether the elevator was working or someone came down to freshen up, or he was coming down the stairs, or maybe he wanted to do something else. The session began at the moment when a report of the Committee on Culture and Information on Amendments entered this hall. On the amendments, we had the government's opinion today. So, I don't think there's any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there's no idea and there's no reason to criticise this law, so there's no need to replace... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49412	Thank you. Time. As for the violation of Rule 75's Rules of Procedure, I agree essentially with you, but the chairman, as far as the president and vice president are concerned, cannot interrupt this session, but we are all witnesses of what has happened. I ask the ruling majority to have patience, to hear all the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and to essentially commit ourselves to the Law of Culture, because here there is indeed the intention of most MPs to commit themselves to matter and to talk about it, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure will now be heard several more times, and I ask the ruling majority not to simply participate in it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49413	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to intervene on two infringements of the Rules of Procedure, one has been done by the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic now, and one has been done by the Vice President and the chairman before Mrs Gojkovic, that is Mr Becic. Mrs. Gojkovic, you've injured Article 109. The Rules of Procedure when you allowed Mr Babic to return now to the descriptions of how the Committee on Culture and Information was under discussion and who violated the Rules of Procedure without sticking to ten and five minutes there. Well, that debate has already passed, we have come here now and it was not appropriate for Mr. Babic to speak, who otherwise violated those ten minutes most. He spoke for over ten minutes and the chairman, Mrs Marjanovic, even tolerated it. Now I'm surprised Mr. Babic is back on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49414	So I can't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure if I wasn't where it was going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49415	But now you've allowed him to go back to that time, to describe what happened and so on. The second injury, here, Mr. Becic broke the Rules of Procedure. How? That was a serious injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49416	How? What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49417	Article 32, all positions of Article 32. Mr. Becic, Mrs. Gojkovic, with a loud and elevated voice, addressed one of the MPs here shortly before, Mrs. Karavidic. Here, I don't think you were there, let Mrs. Karavidic say if it was true. I intervened immediately. I told Mr. Becic - don't... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49418	Don't yell now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49419	I'm sorry now. I didn't like that Mr. Becic yelled at Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49420	Please, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49421	Here, I'm going to say it with a little lower voice. I responded immediately, I told Mr. Bečić – do not raise your voice to speak to Mrs. Karavidic, and Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Becic did not even want to give me the word that I was responding to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Warn him and warn him right now. Thank you, gentlemen. Do I have extended time respected Mrs. Gojkovic. Maybe after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49422	You don't. I can't establish order in the O.R., I can only be happy here to listen to a loud voice, but I'd have to do something tonight. I just want to make a deal with you. I can apply the Rules of Procedure, that's my right. So, for all of these abuses of the Rules of Procedure, I'd like to express the measures of taking two minutes at a time. If that's what you want, fine. If not, then let's move on to matter. We can make a nice deal. A man can make a deal with me. So the option is to move to work on the amendments. I am convinced after nine hours of debate that you had a reason and you want the citizens of Serbia, especially the cultural public to hear what we did for nine hours or to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because it is obvious that we do not have as many members as the MPs of the opposition have reported. So we can make a nice deal. You want two minutes each time, since these are obvious abuses. So you want me to, you want me to make a play out of this and it's a very bad, amateurally complete play. So, then my measure is 30 seconds of rest and going to work, because other measures I can't do and direct the course of the debate. So, you won't get 30 seconds after you hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it's impossible for me to do so many injuries to the Rules of Procedure by keeping my mouth shut. We did some research on whether Becic could have started the session when everyone was here or not, about then they would never have started. Just please tell me which member we're on because I can't cope with a major breach of the Rules of Procedure. To Article 9? The word is from MP Karavidic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49423	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I would, if I could have your attention. Article 9 that we re-form has been explained by my colleague Marinkovic. We got, though, two government arguments, so now I don't know which explanation to watch, should I watch that 10 hours and 10 minutes or 12 and 30 minutes? Otherwise, they're both seduced by the same number, which is simply inadmissible. I asked the secretary of the assembly to explain to me how the report on the amendments of the seductions that arrived at different times could be seduced by the same number? I would like to ask you – are you ashamed of the little bar because of the way this session is conducted in order...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49424	Now I'm going to do what Becic did, shame on you. There. It doesn't make any sense. If all you can show about the Culture Act... (Branka Karavidić, from the scene: Let us talk about the law. I'm sorry this is going on a delayed transmission. If I could influence the director of RTS, who I don't know, I would influence him now and beg him to include us in the program right now. Now. And I'm going to do everything, see, but I don't have any influence on him, and it's impossible, but this is really fantastic. I've never experienced this before. So you don't want to talk about the law? I'm completely confused. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the post: Two reports, two numbers at different times seduced. Well, that's what you say, but not to insult the president, the chairman, so we're not here to be insulted. Well, don't say that. I mean, why do you think the president has to take offense? Well, it's really non-sensual. You think so? Just to see how Gordana Comic suffered insults. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49425	I ask you to try to do what we do, which is an amendment to Article 9, but I generally use five minutes. If I get to five minutes. In the debate on amendments, of course, there is also the possibility that a general interpretation of the law should also point to the view of MPs on an amendment, and this has always been the case so far and there is no need for now some dragon measures, some insights, to talk only about an amendment of two words to mark the debate on the Culture Act. Then I ask you to let us express our position, those of us who have been on that committee for a while, people who have been nine or how many hours already from any party deserve to be in front of the Serbian public, and now we don't, and probably someone in the middle of the night is going to watch what we're talking about, probably the most interesting thing. So this is a session, I'm sorry, a debate about a law that's secret. The fundamental point of the 7th amendment was run, at point 7, which was changed by a new means in the process of law-making, and this means is called appeal. So we had a situation to change the essence of this law with the appeal of the Prime Minister, or an important act. The present minister was warned on my part when there was a debate in principle, to watch what he was doing, that it would happen that he was going to make a mistake, and here it happened, even that same night. Of course, it's not just his fault. The mistake was also the prime minister who, watching television, came to the conclusion that national pensions were abolished, and the same Prime Minister signed a law in August of this year to define it. It would be good for the Prime Minister to read the laws, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49426	Ambassador, it's all right, I'll tell him. Now be kind enough to discuss Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49427	I'm asking you not to interrupt me. Of course I've been talking about Article 9, because if he didn't know how to read Article 7, was Article 9 read properly? Maybe tonight at half past one we'll get another appeal that Article 9 should be done in some other form. We had a member on board 44, who wasn't clear to anyone, and neither did the proposer, so after that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49428	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49429	I've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49430	It's all right. We'll get to article 44.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49431	I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49432	I'm asking you the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49433	There's no reason, you have a parliamentary majority. Whether it's nervous with some people who know they won't be on the list again, it's not something I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49434	Ambassador, do you know that we've passed the law to look at cups, prophesying and things like that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49435	That's what you tell the president of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49436	No, that's what you told me. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You think that's the way? You think that's the way? You think you're dominant? Is this culture, domestic education, what's going on? All right, I got some epithets at the last session, and now you're insulting my parents. Let's see how far you can go in this debate about the Culture Act. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Give me your word. ) Insults, cynicism, I will endure these insults, not a problem, but if you can pass my parents, that would be fantastic, I would kindly ask you. Do you want me to give you three minutes left to talk about Article 9. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go, Article 9, I've got in front of me, I'm trying to follow up on the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49437	In no way have I ever wanted to offend anyone's parents, nor yours, and you know it well. That when you turn off my microphone, so you're making a conclusion out of something I didn't say, it's not appropriate and I'm not talking about you, and I'm not the one who needs you to educate. We're all old people, or we're over 18 years old, what we've learned- we've learned. Article 9 is in danger if it passes, if the amendment given is rejected. I'm telling you that in half a night, the Prime Minister is going to watch some TV and see that it's not good, so he's going to appeal again, or maybe the president of the country is going to see this Turkish woman in a cup, so he sees that the amendment to Article 9, and then he's going to return the law as it was. That's already happened. The property sale law was returned, and you refused then to support our amendments that were "expunged". Now he's making some progress. Minister Tasovac accepted two amendments by colleagues Pavicevic and my smallities, which read as "expunge", so that it was officially in this parliament. I just want to know why there's a need for one law that's a bad fit in a secret night's session in a situation where we all know, and a good part of our fellow ruling majority who were on the Committee and who clearly showed their disagreement, surprise and some of the worse things that I don't want to mention, what they think about that law. Some voted against, colleagues from most of the assembly, who are now gone. There is no need for a law that should open a completely new chapter in cultural politics in Serbia by this hour and by half of the night.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49438	What's your suggestion? When exactly is the right time to start?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49439	The suggestion is to let your colleagues speak as they say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49440	What time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49441	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49442	How many hours, you said, seriously, since I'm trying to figure out what the problem is?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49443	To let your colleagues speak the way you did and to behave like you said it did in the British Parliament. If you want it to be a debate now, let it be, but let people explain their amendments by giving a broader explanation of their amendments, not that Becic or, I don't know, you catch them reading their amendments or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49444	This is an insult performance at the expense of me and the vice president, but good. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: You do not understand Serbian. No, I don't seem to understand at all. I'm just waiting for you to say one more thing, so it's really gonna be the highlight of this performance. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49445	Dear President, thank you. I believe that the injured Rules of Procedure in Articles 106 and 107, is the dignity of the National Assembly, for several reasons. First, I was disabled before you took over the presidency to talk about the amendment to Article 9. Secondly, you expressed the surprise that the Committee on Culture lasted eight hours. Why is that weird? You have thus offended 14 members of the Committee who have worked very hard and, in my opinion, very dedicated today all day long. Why? Because this law is not good and because the whole cultural public has declared itself very negative. Don't you think, as President of the Assembly, that the board is where we need to discuss this matter until the very end? I think you've offended us, all 14 board members who've been working very hard all day. I saw that this session started when I was coming down the stairs, and I haven't even gotten off the board's seat yet. Do you think that's correct, as president of the assembly? Five minutes later, she could have started the session. I really must protest, as I protest that the Minister of Culture, when the Law on Culture is passed, is not worthy of MPs to appear. I'd like you to personally rebuke him for that. That's your role. Thank you. And I don't know how we can have a serious debate when we start with that kind of humiliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49446	MPs, I've been here almost two years as chairman and there are very few sessions when you were present in the O.R. How do I know what your will is today? How do I know that? Just help me. How do I know when you're coming, what do you like to listen to, what don't you? Help me. Well, I'm ignorant, obnoxious, I don't know how to run sessions, I've heard other epithets these days. It's all right, I accept everything. All right, the opposition is right, it has all the rights of this world to behave as it pleases, to strike, to insult, to behave as it pleases. It's your right and your view of addressing your voters, and I accept that. Someone likes simplicity, someone likes order and peace, my God. But tell me, how am I supposed to know when you're going to be there? Have your colleagues help me get my records out, see how many times you've attended the session. It means we're not starting. You can't report from the Rules of Procedure right now when I'm giving an interpretation that I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. That's all you know. So, are we going to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: absolutely. We'll absolutely vote. The word has its people's ambassador Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure Oh, no? [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: No, replica.]] Just who? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: At Zivkovic's presentation, to mention the prime minister. Yes. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: How? ) To explain, Zoran Babic is head of the SNS parliamentary group. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: E, I get it now. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49447	Madam President, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandar Vukic has someone to call in this House, he has 135 of his MPs and MPs and we are proud to communicate with the president of our party unlike those of the MPs sitting in this room, and they have no one to call, and neither do they. On the other hand, the SNS today on the Committee on Culture and Informing has initiated and proposed to the Committee to propose three amendments to the National Assembly, an amendment which we have preserved the opportunity for the government to grant recognition in the future of a lifetime of monetary income to an artist, or an expert in culture for a top-notch contribution to national culture, because we do not want some bad decisions, non-transparent decisions in the past of some past governments, to punish future people, those who will make their immeasurable contribution to culture. The fact that someone is the only policy -- we hate Vucic, and that someone's only policy is that they are the opposite of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, so to date they've been to accept such an amendment, and then today, when the SNS is such an amendment and proposed, they are now against it, and we were able to see both tonight and from the discussion that they are against it, with that policy they have to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They will have a chance, I believe, already in April, so we will see what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to say about hate policy, insult policy, and to you, Mrs Gojkovic, and to all women in Serbia, and according to all, ultimately, to all people in Serbia. We're proud of the communication we have with the prime minister, and those who have no one to call them, or to invite them, that's a problem for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49448	Thank you. Time. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49449	Thank you. I don't know what I caused the replica, but not to speak directly, tell your fellow MP that there is no Prime Minister of Serbia in the state justice system, there is a prime minister of Serbia, a coloquial expression and there is a Serbian Prime Minister, that is an official term. Of course, it is entirely incorrect that the SNS parliamentary group itself came to the conclusion that national pensions should be maintained. Against it was also present now Minister Tasovac and very warmly convinced us that it was a relic of the past, that it was only in the Soviet Union, that it was something that was a little stimulant for people to start dealing with culture, well, it's not like they're doing it for retirement, so it's said that various people were getting some pensions without any merit, without any connection to culture. That's what the Prime Minister reiterated when he heard it on television, that one of our dear actresses is more important, and I completely agree, that she is very important compared to 40 misallocated national pensions. What 40? Let's hear who are these people who got this undeserved? Who has the right to judge that? If there is an institution to assess it, it is certainly not the Serbian prime minister or the Serbian government's president. Therefore, there is no reason for hatred, for the mention of hatred to be used in this House towards the opposition. I don't hate anyone. A lot of people need to be too big to cause hate with me. It can cause some disgust, it can cause me to ignore someone, it doesn't matter, but hate never does.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49450	Thank you. Time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49451	Whether there is hatred or no hatred, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it very well, because you can't call a fellow cattle, garbage, scum without hating it. How? What, out of charity? Well, of course not, but out of hatred, which is not done by any member, not by any MP of the SNS, but by a respected previous speaker. On the other hand, something has been said that is completely false. How, my God, in his words, will the government assess whether someone was given a reward for no reason? Article 14 of the Law on Culture reads – The Government can grant recognition in the form of life, etc., etc. The government is assigning, and the government cannot assess whether some have won the prize without need or for a certain reason. Well, then who's going to determine? So the government can only assign and cannot control. And that's what a man who doesn't hate, or who can't read, or who won't read. I don't know what, let him choose which of the answers he offers. But it clearly says here -- the government, the government, the same one that your Prime Minister said about today's session of the Committee -- well, some of your presidents. And who's her Prime Minister? Well, there is only one Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, elected here in the National Assembly, elected by the MPs elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because you may not like this policy, because you have a policy – we hate Vukic, it does not necessarily mean that you insult all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who in the fair and democratic elections in 2014 have brought us all into this room. What kind of understanding of democracy is that? Your prime minister or not the government can judge whether or not they've been given rewards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49452	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49453	Once again, there is no parent law, at least not in what is used in parliament. Two, if the government assigns a recognition called a national pension to someone under Rule 14, it doesn't mean that the Prime Minister can in his appeal, which is sent informally, to characterise that 40 people, of course, don't know how much total he doesn't deserve. If the government wants to review who has all the national pensions, then put it on the government's agenda, and is asked by the ministry to analyse the situation, so the ministry also writes in the decision from 1 to 40, that, that, and that undeserved pension. It may not be possible to take away their pension, but the government can conclude that they have received it illegally, without any conditions and ask them to return it, to be a kind of calling for respect for that award, so let's see who these people are, to see what are the high criteria applied by the Serbian prime minister when assessing who participates in cultural creation and artistic action in this country. That's what's written, illiterate, I think it's a completely pointless thing to talk about. I don't want to talk about it. The law on culture and other laws, but the Law on Culture in particular should be an example of a democratically competent debate in this House. Because someone calls hate as an argument, it's not a reflection of decency, culture, or democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49454	Thank you very much. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49455	A decent debate is not when a colleague is called cattle. A decent debate is not when a colleague is called a scum. It's not a decent debate when a colleague is called garbage. A decent debate is not when the president of the National Assembly, women and ladies, calls it what certain MPs here have insulted her, truth, not in the grandeur itself, but from this hall through social networks. If the appeal is addressed, I join him, but the appeal is not addressed to the Serbian Progressive Party who is very congratulating, hardworking, correct, politely, culturally doing his job as MPs. The appeal was primarily addressed to those who spoke such words in the National Assembly. Besides, why would anyone be afraid of any kind of revision, why would anyone be afraid of any judgment or evaluation? I wish we had a body in the government or I don't know where, perhaps in the judicial authorities, that would assess subsidies, I gave subsidies and where those subsidies ended. Is it a manufacturer or someone else's, a farmer's or a return farmer's? Let's see, why? When someone works honestly and responsibly, they shouldn't be afraid of any revisions. With these amendments proposed by the Serbian Progressive Party to the Committee, I am grateful to the Committee because it has accepted these amendments, we do not want them to feel in any way threatened by the people we grew up with, the people we have educated with, the people who have left an immeasurable mark in our culture, but we want to give the opportunity for more of these people to be in Serbian culture in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49456	Thank you. We interrupt the replicas. Anyone who wants by law can and who doesn't, no. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Give me your word. I'm sorry you spent five minutes, you're not a proposing. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He started. ) I am really trying to lead this parliament as is appropriate for mature adults. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: But you are failing. That's great. Let's talk about me a little more, and let's get to work. I'll be rough. I'll interrupt anyone who doesn't talk about Article 9. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, I did not interrupt. Ambassador, not you, I hear you're loud, but just because someone's loud doesn't mean that someone's going to scream and violence to do things. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Out of the question. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Just tell me your purpose. I have the right to hold a session, regardless of what I'm trying to... (Marian Risticevic, from the post: By amendment. ) Article 9 on national councils and their responsibilities, is that right? I have to ask you. Here you go. Can I give you my word? I want you to communicate with me, because I'm trying to run a session. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: If possible? There, it's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49457	Thank you. Article 9. I think it's Amendment 17, but since I'm not really obliged to listen to everyone, I may have made a mistake. It's democratic that I don't have to listen to what others say. It says here what the advice does. So, so far, I've been reading these amendments carefully. Like last night when I was sitting here, there were two on this side. Today it was my fault that I waited here for eight, nine hours patiently to assess what the Council should do. He says -- he analyzes and gives an opinion on the state of affairs of the Republic of Serbia's culture. When I say that, I have to say that if we want to talk about an amendment to the Culture Act, we ourselves need to be cultural. It was disputed to me the other day in a very offensive way, but I do not want to respond in such a way, but I must, given that the minister is there, that it is an amendment that has been rejected – analyzes and gives an opinion on the state of affairs in the culture of the Republic of Serbia. There are various phenomena, so I ask you, is culture, as vice president of the former regime... What kind of opinion will you give when wearing a neo-Nazi shirt? Should we analyze and give an opinion of this kind of culture? The former president of the former regime's party is also nearby. This is a neo-Nazi sign. This Serbia, Serbia's culture, didn't deserve it. In line with the amendment to Article 9, that is, Article 17 is amended and read – it analyses and gives an opinion on what the Council does about the state of culture of the Republic of Serbia. What's this state of mind? This is not a state, this is what our people would call otherwise. So I ask you -- are we here in a cultural way, and I'm challenged that I have the right to deal with culture, to give examples of what can't happen in Serbian culture and what can't happen? This is certainly what must not happen, and the Council and this amendment, which suggests it, must also suggest an opinion on this. As I patiently had to wait for those of whom I expected wisdom, since we took on the most important functions and since they are in the years I am in. I thought wisdom came with age, that culture comes with age, but it seems that some go only years. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49458	I want to ask the MP for something, if possible, to give me a photo, because personally and personally, the vice presidents, we haven't seen what you're showing. Thank you. Can I give the Minister my word to answer? No, I can't give him my word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49459	Article 27 and Article 108 have been injured. All attitudes. You said in Mrs. President's earlier address that you'd be rude, look at that in the stenogram, you said you'd be rude. It can't be called holding a session, it's a threat. So, you've probably threatened all MPs, and perhaps not everyone that you're going to be rude in holding a session. After that, you allowed an exhibition of photocopied photographs, so you showed your desire to see for yourself, it's called a circus, it's not a session-making session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49460	MP, you have now offended the entire parliament, I cannot allow this. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I cannot insult the entire parliament. I don't want to do that. ) I do not allow anyone to be in opposition as many years as you want to be, but I do not allow any parliament of the Republic of Serbia to compare with the circus. I don't allow it simply. I won't allow it. Please write me what I can say, and the same thing, I would ask all those who have an objection to give me a blind reading of what I can say and what I can't say and write to the MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia what they can say and what they can't say. I'd like to ask you. I guess there are no conditions because somehow you have no arguments to discuss the Culture Act, because you don't want to, you just don't want to. I'm trying, you don't want to. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What difference does it make? Here, we'll hear it now. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure there's something about the Culture Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49461	Dear ladies and gentlemen, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning one great principle of dignity of the National Assembly. President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, because of the irregular conditions of this session, we MPs of the New Party will not continue to participate in the debate. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49462	Thank you. It's your personal decision, and that's all the MPs who will remain respectful. I'm sorry you don't want to continue the work, you don't want to talk about the Culture Act that's extremely important, but we can't get involved in it. I'll see you tomorrow. Minister Tasovac wants to speak to the MP. I'd like you to allow the minister to say something sometime. He was so kind as to wait for all this. Please, Ministers, respond to Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49463	There are other state authorities dealing with this kind of photography, it really does not enter the jurisdiction of the National Council for Culture in any way. But for the sake of Serbian citizens, I would just like to clarify some things, and I urge you to remember that two days ago a debate was held in principle, and I would very much like to go back to the debate of the Culture Act, which is one of the most important and important laws, because simply if we continue to conduct this debate in this way, I simply think that we are coming out of the context of exactly what culture is. But if we're talking about Article 9 of the Law, there's been an impression for someone who hasn't read the law normally that most of the people who are watching us haven't read the law, that there have been some totally amazing changes in the rank of complete wonder. I just need to draw your attention to what's changed in that article. So instead of point 4. – participates in the work, so it is, unsettling and giving an opinion on the proposal, it is the only change. In addition to what has been added, which is further strengthened in my opinion by the role of the National Council that opinion has been given in the process to promote cultural creation. Everything else is exactly the same as in the previous law, so I don't understand that kind of passion about the National Council and its jurisdiction because no one during...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49464	Thank you, Minister. Time. Unfortunately, I have to limit it to five minutes. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49465	When it comes to this amendment and this member who regulates the jurisdiction of the National Council, I would point out that here is something to be done by my understanding of the advisory body. So, if, of course, it is made up of the greatest experts, the people who are competent, involved in all fields of artistic and cultural creation, their role as planned by the very purpose of forming a council is to participate in the ministry's work in an advisory way, not to place itself in relation to the ministry as someone who prescribes its work. In terms of interpretation of this change. He is considering and giving an opinion is an assessment above the competence which, but I would more like to refer to this point of the six that was proposed, which the minister mentioned, is that the opinion on the award process for promoting cultural creation. Our discussion, which was the other day, in principle, largely debated on the Committee on Culture itself, of course and in the general public, caused the overall story of national recognitions, i.e. national pensions. I am in my presentation in principle, but also here, I will ask that in defining and relations with which the national award is really lost, what is a national pension, to underline whether we want to give rewards or pensions, to focus on how the previous member is defined, one specific reward, but that at the same time the introduction of this new piece in this Article 9 or the replica on Article 17 opens the possibility of really discussing various forms of cultural creation from different spheres and to allow the Ministry itself, or the National Council itself, with all its members to participate in proposing possible national recognitions, awards, etc. which would be of great importance to complete art work. This may lead to a solution that I will repeat, that the greats from the foundations of our writings of culture, the Wolf and the Dossite are established as future possible recognitions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49466	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49467	Thank you. I am not surprised that the minister does not understand why such an interest in a member referring to the National Council for Culture, as it is known to the public that from the very beginning when he was elected to the post of minister he had a conflict with this council. This solution here is just a reflection of this brief history in their relationship. The role of the National Council under the Law on Culture is to be a control factor in relation to the ministry. That's not the only advice. The Minister of Education has two such advices, has the High Council of Justice and I believe that as Parliamentarians we should support such bodies as are some kind of control factor in relation to the executive power. As hard as the minister has been trying to show us here that he greatly respects the National Council for Culture, his behavior, his inconsistency at their sessions, the disrespect of any of their proposals proves that it is absolutely not true. This proposal diminishes their powers, and our amendment really wants something quite the opposite, and that is to extend their powers. In this council, so far, people have sat down with the reputations proposed by their artistic associations, institutions of culture, SANU etc. and were highly called on to give their opinion and to participate in the development of the strategy that the incident was, be it said, Minister Tasovac stopped the moment he was elected minister. All previous ministers worked on the strategy, including Minister Petkovic, who was his direct predecessor. The National Council for Culture, to give him credit, worked for four years without any working conditions, asked for no special conditions, paid for their travel expenses themselves, and left hundreds of pages of quality text. Madam President, if you're not interested in the Culture Act, then you don't have to listen. Hundreds of quality texts that will remain for generations, which unfortunately cannot be said for the legion that will leave behind this Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49468	The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49469	I also take this opportunity to thank you for the really great contribution of the National Council for Culture and for all their suggestions, and let us not have to agree on all the proposals, but together we are looking for the best solutions. What they've been doing for the past four years without compensation can be thanked to you, since the previous law did not regulate compensation. I don't want to talk about the next member of the law that's just regulated and compensated for the work of a representative of the National Council. (Vesna Marjanović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49470	The basis for the replica is the minister's answer? (Vesna Marjanović, from the post: Reply Minister or you will take away from me from the time of the parliamentary group. I will, but then let the other MPs say something, and I listened carefully. I can't really believe it. I can't really believe the behavior, amazing. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49471	The amendment to Article 9 that we have submitted concerns this National Council. I have to ask once again, Minister, since we have received two government reports, completely different, and with the same number and at different times, I am not convinced that you, perhaps your opinion will change, as it was in the principle of debate in which we explicitly talked about the danger of the abolition of these national pensions, under the circumstances, and were personally telling you that it was a danger that once an injustice could be done a much greater injustice. In this, you were also supported by MPs, normal positions, where they raced to support it more inspiredly, how evil it is, etc. Then you changed your mind and it's commendable. But were you then Mr. Tassovac Minister or were you today? What's the reason you changed your mind? I'd like you to reply to this amendment again, to make sure I got the right answer, so we don't get two different answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49472	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49473	Unfortunately, you weren't there at the end of the previous session, when we talked about the law in principle and when I most sincerely thanked all MPs for constructive discussions, both positions and opposition, and said that there was a big job ahead of us to consider all the amendments once again, once again to go through all the paragraphs, and to re-analyze everything that was heard during the debate. It's usually the way we've done it throughout the process of passing and this law, all the other laws and all the draft laws that are currently being prepared. Also, no law is a Bible, laws are living matter. We live in a time where technological change and economic change are really dramatic changes in our everyday life, where very often our consciousness is very hard to follow, let alone legal regulations. So, the simple answer to the previous question you've already received, and the legal interpretation is, how much is the same seductive number in the same day, that it's common to watch then the one who arrived later. That's the interpretation I heard from the lawyer. Excuse me if I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49474	The word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49475	I'd have to remind Mr. Secretary, since I find his answer to my discussion cynicalally. At the beginning of his term, Mr Babic immediately withdrew the provision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, which we share, here is exactly what Mr Babic took part in drawing up this proposal to address the issue of the work of the National Council. The first thing you did, you pulled that law out of the process as soon as you got here and you never proposed it again. So, if you wanted to secure the terms, you could. You didn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49476	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49477	This is absolutely true, because I felt that it was necessary to approach the comprehensive changes and additions of the Culture Act, not to single out one thing at a time. But that doesn't change what I said in any way. If you were so committed to the National Council, you could really regulate it at the very beginning. I would have been most fortunate if you had regulated many other things, because we would have had less to do with this law and we could concentrate on an even greater promotion, not only in the legal frameworks, but also in many other jobs that have remained, unfortunately, unfinished.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49478	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Stojkovic, Mirjana Andric, Aleksandar Jugovic and Nebojsa Tatomir. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinković, Vesna Besarović, Moamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49479	Thank you. And this refers to the conditions of the work of the National Council for Culture, where the Ministry, again seems to be a cynical way, wished, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to propose a provision to which the Council's expert-administrative, technical and information affairs should be carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't exist in any other similar solution. That is why our amendment is exactly the same as the solution provided for by the National Council for Higher Education, because it is absolutely logical and in the legal system already known that only through the Ministry's budget lines can the technical conditions of the Council's work be provided. I think that's one logical solution. If we accepted him as the High Council of Education, we could also accept him as the National Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49480	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49481	Thank you, President. Mr. Tasovac, many have complained about you members of the National Cultural Council. Every time they came to the Committee, in every report, in every piece of information, in every memo they sent, they complained that they had no working conditions, no travel expenses, that they even had to pay themselves coffee at meetings. It is me, for example, as chairman of the Educational Committee, given how the Ministry of Education takes care of both the National Educational Council and the National Council for Higher Education, because it is the ministry responsible for their work, just as we have suggested that your ministry be responsible for the work of the National Council for Culture. In that National Council, Mr. Tasovac, very serious people. There is Egon Savin, Goran Paskaljević, Dusan Kovacevic, Ivana Stefanovic, Isidora Žebeljan. You didn't listen to anything they suggested. When they say no national pensions should be abolished, you said: national pensions are a disgrace to those who receive them and to those who assign them. When Vucic said - national pensions should not be abolished, then you realized that national pensions should not be abolished. At that session when we discussed the Law in principle at the Committee session, at which you were not present, as well as at today's session of the Committee, the President of the National Council for Culture, Mr Tasovac, spoke about how you did not adopt two of their amendments to the sea of amendments proposed by this law. They're usually in the job description and dealing with laws in the field of culture. He even said, Mr. Tasovac, I don't know if that's what your associates told you, that if the ministry and the minister are going to treat the National Council for Culture in this way, then it's better to abolish it. If that's your intention, then it's an honor, you're on a great path because the way you treat the National Cultural Council is very possible that it will happen. Either we've chosen serious people to listen to, believing that they're cultural experts, or you and Mr. Vukic know best and you don't need to listen to anyone, but in that case, make sure people don't really break up, that we don't distract them, that they don't think they're doing any work and that they give advice that nobody's listening to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49482	The word is Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49483	I have to correct you from not accepting any proposal from the National Council and by other means saying it. Not all proposals of the National Council have been accepted. First, we will not bid with numbers now, allow me, because I think it is really not the place, and I think that this article 10 has been resolved another question that will contribute to better functioning of the National Council, as I will draw your attention that all along the Secretary of the National Council is a clerk, a lawyer who is employed in the Ministry of Culture and Information, that there has been a very good co-operation so far, and I thank this opportunity and the assembly services which, at every request of the Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information, has provided a hall for the National Council and for their work, as our man has also worked on their records and has been present at all times to provide professional assistance. I also need to draw your attention to sharing your opinion on the exceptional biography of people who are members of the National Council, again without auctioning their names. Some of them have resigned in the meantime, some of them have not appeared at any session in the last few years, which unfortunately led to very often not having quorum. In that case, I have one more thing to add. Even when they didn't have a quorum, with a large number of these people we're in daily contact, because you communicate with people not only at sessions, our artistic community isn't as big as we are not, like we're not a rich country, so people communicate not only when television cameras are involved, if they want to be heard, but not just to make an impression.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49484	Thank you. The word is Branka Karavidić, so Zoran Babic, and Vesna Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49485	Thank you, Madam President. We, members of the Committee on Culture, have, and I suppose, the other MPs have recently received a semi-annual report from the National Cultural Council. I'm so sorry I don't have that paper on me right now. I cannot help but feel that people at the end of their mandate, as their mandate expires, are saying they hope that the new Council composition will have far better co-operation with the minister and that their material status will be far better resolved. This is a solution to the problem, but there is another part of the problem, which is the ministry's relationship to the Council, with all respect to what you said and all the objections to others. I simply cannot believe that you, I will repeat the sentence that I have left in my memory, which is – in practice there are problems that are directly due to the lack of understanding of the authority of this body. I hope so, although I don't know what to tell you, these problems will now be resolved. The way MPs who chose the Council, as a body, treat that body, shows me nothing at all, nor does it give me hope that anything will be better. It will be listened to by the minister, whoever it is, and not by the Council, made up of, as you said, the sound names of our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49486	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49487	Madam President, Mr. Minister, I couldn't wait for the debate to reach Article 10. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. The least I could expect from respected colleagues and colleagues of the former regime is to stand up, report on this amendment and instruct the members of the National Council for Culture. The least I could expect was to say, "I'm sorry, we left you with the 2009 law we voted for without any compensation, no means to work. We left you here to satisfy some form, to embellish, to decorate this Law of Culture, but to do nothing. “ Now I have heard something that really shocked me, which is scandalous, that a respected colleague who spoke earlier says – well you, Mr. Tasovac and the Government of Alexander Vukic, are guilty of such conditions, or of not having conditions for the work of the National Council for Culture. So who passed the 2009 Culture Act? Serbian Progressive Party or parties of the former regime? Of the seven MPs and MPs now in the former regime's hall, six voted in favour of such a law. Six of you voted in favour of such a law where the National Council for Culture was left without the means to work and where no compensation is provided for the work of members and president of the National Council for Culture. Now because of these decisions and because of such laws you have made, instead of making an apology, not only to them, but to the entire Serbian public and to all people in the field of culture, you say – SNS is responsible. The Serbian Progressive Party is responsible because members of the 10th are scheduled to provide funds for the work of the Council in the Republic of Serbia's budget, all that you did not foresee, in position 2. - members of the Council shall be entitled to work in the height determined by the National Assembly on a proposal from the National Assembly’s competent committee, i.e. the Committee on Culture and Information. What are you going to do with greater democracy? What better decisions will you make? We have determined our responsibilities, determined where the resources for the work of the National Council for Culture came from and left it to the National Assembly to determine the amount of compensation on a proposal from the competent committee. So who's responsible for the work, or for not having conditions for the work of the National Cultural Council? So how dare you, folks, for what you voted for, for what you raised your hand for, six out of seven, now five out of six, how many of you are in the O.R., you say your decision is responsible for the SNS? So stop, don't you think no one can look at the basic Culture Act, that no one can look at it when it's adopted, that no one sees the solutions in this Culture Act, that no one can remember how you discussed it then, that you didn't care about the National Council for Culture, that we'll reset your memory, that no one can remind you of bad mistakes? I would stand up here, because I was waiting for this article 10th and this amendment, I would stand up and say, it's okay, people have made a mistake, they've made an apology, we're going to learn from other people's mistakes, we're going to move on. No, we've been charged that we're not taking care of the National Cultural Council, that we're leaving them without the means to work. I can agree that this attitude is a bit silly, you will forgive me for such a term, that it cannot be clearly defined that for the conditions for the performance of professional, administrative and information affairs for the needs of the Council, the National Assembly provides, and I think that some of the corrections we have today clearly defined and what business is and what is the obligation of the National Assembly, what is the obligation of the Government, and what the National Council for Culture will do. Yes, we correct your mistakes, but we cannot bear your mistakes. We can't be responsible for your mistakes. I don't allow anything like that. I don't allow it because of those people who are watching us right now. I don't allow it because of those people who, in just a few months, maybe better people than we are, I believe better people than we are, are going to sit in these benches. It's inadmissible and hypocritical to act that way. We're carrying a cross, a heavy cross, bad decisions from the past. We're correcting them. Mostly in the areas of public finances, fallen economies, too much unemployment. Now, to carry the cross and that you voted for such a Culture Act, which you didn't provide for any single dinar, no possibility, and yes, she's a true co-worker, were the people of the Cultural Council and we talked, we talked about the way and the way, and I agree that Mr. Tasovac chose the way to solve that question with one comprehensive amendment and additions to the law. But I won't let you put the burden of your bad decisions from the past, put as a liability to the Serbian Progressive Party. We're here to change things and we're doing it with this law, but we're here with all those decisions and laws that we've made in the last two years of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49488	The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49489	Thank you. In the National Council for Culture, there are serious people and all of what you have said, they will understand in the right way, because they know very well how many times they have asked for help, how many times, three or four of the Presidents of the Council, have asked for support, from 2009 to today. It's been seven years, and you're wearing the cross you want, but just so you know, you've got yours, too. I find it rude and incorrect to say that they did not have a quorum, that some have resigned without saying that the Committee on Culture has asked the government twice, because the government has been authorised to complete the seats in the National Council for Culture. Yes, some resigned, some unfortunately passed away. The National Council itself asked the authorities a year ago to fill those places. We've done our part of the work as a committee. We've sent word twice to the government that the government has to complete this process. It's never been done. Your government. Seven years have passed since 2009, and now you're trying to get some serious, written, educated people sitting in that Council to convince them that we've turned their fate. I think it's really unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49490	The word has Minister Ivan Tasovac, wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49491	I just have to say that they didn't initiate that procedure. No, they didn't, officially they didn't run it. You know what, we're talking about amendments to the Culture Act here. I think it's very important to clarify that by defining jurisdiction, and yet I said, even here, in some way, and expanded some of the National Council's intelligences, they won't be brought back, so when it's clear whose jurisdiction is, they won't be asked any more if anyone can even think to lift the National Council. But the question can also be asked – if the Ministry of Culture is obliged to accept any suggestion from the National Council, then what do we need from the Ministry of Culture in the first place? Is the Ministry of Culture then a service of the National Council to be conducted absolutely? Here, I see here one of the MPs who agrees that we do not need the Ministry of Culture. It's your legitimate right to launch that kind of initiative. I think that this law has made a shift and I look forward to the future, I look forward to continuing co-operation with the National Council, and I am sure that there is a huge space to improve it and to make absolutely profit from it by Serbia's culture, and by doing so, the full public.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49492	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49493	A breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, not for the first time, because a similar violation of the Rules of Procedure has been done today at the Committee on Culture's session. I really urge my colleague, i.e. you, Madam President, to appeal to Mrs Marjanovic, that there is no one of yours and our government. There is one single government of the Republic of Serbia. The government in the shadows is somehow their government, I can no longer call it a shadow government, that government is more of a government in the sun, but in the sun of Brion, in the sun of Maldives, it's more of a sun...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49494	Ambassador, please, I'm going to have to take two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49495	Subtract, I don't have any problem, just so we don't break the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure. There is one government, the government of the Republic of Serbia, legitimately elected and legally elected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by the MPs elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And it's not yours and ours, it's the one and only government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49496	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49497	If I may, I'd like more of this amendment. When it comes to the existence of national councils in general, I would first remind, as I recall, that the National Council was first formed in the Ministry of Culture. First, I would like to welcome the existence of national councils as the type of an orderly institutional relationship that extends the number of participants from public and cultural workers, which creates the policy of the ministry concerned. In any case, the quality expansion and competences that arise in this regard, but since this is not the only national council, I would also ask equal respect for the position and all other participants in the work of the national councils, and if a one-brand solution is necessary for other national councils that may exist and operate within other ministries, they would be given a single solution, a uniform status and would be arranged as a single system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49498	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49499	In order to be quite precise, the National Council does not create a policy of the Ministry, but gives suggestions on politics. I think we've made that misunderstanding very clear to this change of heart. I say again, the doors of the Ministry of Culture are fully open and with great respect we will treat every suggestion and National Council and complete cultural public and complete society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49500	Thank you. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 10th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukovic, Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49501	I asked the representatives of the ministry today, and I didn't get a clear answer. This article proposes the establishment of central protection institutions by species. There is a division, for example, of moving and immovable cultural goods and of material and immaterial cultural goods, but let's say one museum can contain both the other and the third kind of goods, cultural goods, and I really don't understand what it means to divide institutions by species. I asked that question, and I ask that now be answered, because the answer was not clear in my opinion today at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49502	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49503	Thank you. This illustration of the dialogue on amendments that my colleagues have submitted is generally an illustration of our conversation with the government's representatives. I have full understanding that opposition MPs can annoy authorised representatives, but then there are mechanisms to dissuade them by giving them an answer, which didn't happen to us. Except for the likable answer that he won't answer, he's standing by the explanation. Just for the sake of reason. So the amendment that we have submitted concerns very small language changes that essentially go hand in hand to the Ministry, because we wanted to submit various kinds of amendments, thinking that the law in general is too bad that it could really be corrected by amendments. But knowing that there is a strategy to adopt, then at least do anything good for those to whom this law will apply. The attitude that we have changed, which in the original is shorter and concerns only the establishment of protection facilities in the territory of units of local self-government, we extend with the words – that the Government can exclusively from the position of the 1st member, establish a protection facility for the territory of several units of local self-government, and an autonomous province can exclusively establish protection institutions for the territory of several units of local self-government in the territory of the AP, which is the minimum and more precise extension of the law of the provision that stands. The explanation given by the government's representatives says: "Amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to our obligation to comply with the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe." Which is not true. You know, there are all of us MPs who read everything, everything that comes into our hands we consider our obligation to read. We regret to say there are ministers and there are MPs and there is a Prime Minister who doesn't read the laws they send us. We read conventions too, that's what we do. So my proposal to be on several units of local self-government has absolutely nothing to do with the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe from Grenada, nor with the Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage with Malta, or with guidelines for the development of legislation and administrative systems in the area of the cultural heritage of the Council of Europe, because it says that all the documents that need to be set up specialised protection services at the central level with the primary objective of protecting cultural goods must be based on unique criteria. If I suggest establishing a government decision for several units of local self-government, where do I mention criteria? Where am I talking about criteria? If I say the AP can do more units, where do I mention the Convention on Architectural or Archaeological Heritage? Where am I talking about the Convention on Protection in the Culture of the Council of Europe? It's quite simple to say - I'm a minister, I want this law to pass. But it's unproductive, because... Can you tell the Minister? [[Ivan Tasovac, from the place: I can't hear...]] Can't you hear me? [[Ivan Tasovac, from the place: I can't hear...]] Then I'll have to do it all over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49504	You don't have to start over, he heard you say something unproductive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49505	I can't, he's confused me now, and now I have to start over, and he's guilty, so then I have to get a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49506	I know you were joking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49507	So the minister can say -- he has this law to go as I say, and it can happen, but it's not productive, because it's not going to happen. But the minister cannot send a representative of the government, who says: I have no answer, I stand by the reasoning; and this is an explanation. You know, if I didn't like this house where I work as much as I do, then it would be a key scandal in the adoption of this law, to send to the MPs an explanation that has nothing to do with the amendment, and to send to the MPs of the government that I quote, they say -- I have no answer, I stick to the arguments. That's not what you do, Minister. It just doesn't work. I can understand that you will not be in more units of local self-government. I can also have the understanding that we've been passionately defending that all the provisions in the law and the National Educational Council and this one concerning the units of local self-government to have or not, so we've changed our minds, these are all congregations. That's absolutely not the kind of thing we can blame each other for. What is happening to you today, has happened to someone else I supported and, by the way, I have supported you, I have nothing against you, and it will happen to someone else in the future, but to send me an explanation that has nothing to do with the amendment and to send me an authorised representative of the Government who gives a reply – I have no answer, I stand by an explanation; it cannot, not because of me who attends the Committee, it cannot because of you, Minister. It can't be because of the institution that you represent here and the institution that's here discussing the amendments to the law. There is no reason not to accept this amendment, which would be contained in any explanation. Your will to follow the idea of what the Culture Act should look like, to say – this amendment is not accepted; it would be even fairer to say – we want our solution because we want our solution than the text you sent to me and your colleagues. The law on culture in general, and so on and so forth with this, perhaps just a picturesque illustration of the amendments, has shown me, unfortunately, one other thing. We have no interest here in dialogue on the cultural development of society, and it is to my personal disappointment in communication and explanations that I have heard from both you and the Prime Minister when he read the law and sent it to us, and to us MPs, moreover, I expect that we will still establish this dialogue. If we have anything as a task, it is the development of culture in Serbia. That's not the kind of explanation you can explain, and that's not the kind of communication you can communicate with. Sure, obviously, but the damage is common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49508	Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49509	I fully agree that dialogue is our obligation, but I also have to tell you that I don't respect so much the home of the National Assembly, all MPs and you personally, I would also consider it a first-rate scandal when you say that the ministers, the Prime Minister, the promoters, don't read the laws they send. That's, I'm sorry, but an insult. I also think that I respect this very much, and this is an opportunity to thank all of my associates who today have been on behalf of the promoters for their truly committed work and during the adoption of the law and during today's clarifications under the amendments, and I don't think that they should treat people who have really devoted themselves to this job and do it as professionally as possible. The last thing I want to say to you. This is about unique criteria, and we just want to make sure that we can implement these central criteria, so that it doesn't just remain one of the dead letters on paper, because we're filled with just, you know, different kinds of strategies, which have been made in the previous period, that's something that came as a result of what's an analysis of the situation on the ground, which is an analysis of the capacity of institutions in the bar, what needs to take a step at this point towards protecting cultural goods and their presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49510	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49511	Thank you. When I talk about reading, far be it an insult. Maybe it's a diagnosis, because it's obvious. So if you've read the law and you've read the Prime Minister, then come on Tuesday, and you said it's great to cancel our pensions, then you've read the law again, so you said - there's no need to cancel pensions. It's your right, that part of us don't understand, and it's good that you've changed that decision, but no one has the right to explain to me for an amendment that I'm asking for by keeping measure and criteria, only the possibility of working in more units of local self-government, the ground, this is on the verge of jurisdiction, but it is more superficial than planting, I don't even think there's any evil intentions, so I'm reading something that my amendment doesn't apply to. Now, that can't be. That in the course of the reasoning of the law, it's as terrible as anyone who wants to support you, you support it, and you say after 24 hours – well, no, that's not good. It's a normal thing in the congregations. It's happening to all the congregations. What's not happening in our assembly is that we have a dialogue on why one decision and why another decision, and what's not happening in other congregations, is that on an amendment that is a completely one Benigan amendment, the Prime Minister thinks he has the right to surface to give any explanation. That damage is common. Fama volat script manent. All this remains. I'm not saying that someone in particular is going to be doing it, but for us, for our sakes, I think this is a surface that we should willingly give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49512	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49513	I could never have thought I'd hear a sentence about no one doing this. Believe me, the number of experts in culture and the number of people who are committed to this will be dealt with by this law, and that is why, with great care and in our best interest, we have approached absolutely every attitude. I repeat again, the law is not a Bible, it's a simple thing to perfect over time. It must be a balance between what is best European practice and what is our reality. It must be a balance between what our desires are and what our real options are right now. This should be a face-to-face with how much more we need to teach ourselves to simply make it competitive on both regional and European and global markets. You know, it's nice to write in the law a lot of things that sound good, but it's bad when it's impossible to apply them, especially when they fall to the Constitutional Court, I'm talking about certain provisions of the 2009 law, but I want to give credit to the people who did it in 2009, because it was the first law to systematically edit the area of culture. So I just think we could look a little bit at this thing as simple as one process and figure out those things that are just positive. And I wouldn't refer to that measure, as I say, so easy on the sentence that the preservation of cultural goods must be based on unique criteria. So this means that it must be implemented on unique criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49514	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully read this amendment, but also the previous amendment. I'm afraid the party of the former regime has broken up again and won't do what they want. In fact, you have an amendment to Article 11, which was proposed by fellow MPs, including the Duke of Maldives, where it writes - Article 11 is deleted. The next amendment was a member of 23 distinguished fellow MPs, the second part of the party of the former regime, the third part went, where it said the member had changed. If we go in order, and if we accept their amendments, I ask you -- how is it technically possible to delete one member, at their request, and then after erasure, when we say that, then we deleted it, how is it possible by voting, of course, in democratic procedure, how is it possible to change the member that was deleted? I would like the members of the shadow government, as Babic called them – the government in the sun, I think that they are looking for their place under the sun from the shadows and shades, so that they will find it a little harder, I would like them to agree with themselves, do they want us to delete this member or change it? Should the first proposings have withdrawn the amendment in order to grant me the wish of these other promoters? I would simply like them to resolve their differences with each other, not to bring us into technical doubt about our desire to accept and declare their amendments. That's not how you do it, as they say. Just define yourself for one solution, but my God. Each MP has the right to propose a different amendment, to have an opinion, that in this conflict of views of common, conflicting ideas we seek common solutions and that in the day of voting we establish political truth, and the objections about changing the law, laws are passed for people, they change for people, they change for social groups, for those to whom they apply. The government is trying, like any other government, to meet the majority who wants these changes and to behave in this way, I also experience the appeal of the prime minister. Each government wants to make decisions that correspond to most citizens or to most of the social group, and to avoid what only corresponds to a minority, and this government is doing just that. To come to a common solution, to find a place under the sun, we need to work hard. At this point, we are either watched or watched by the fired, poor and underpaid, those who have become guilty by the party of the former regime and it would be good to join forces, unite and try the ladders of success in all segments of society to climb up the stairs and not experience these ladders of success as an elevator and try as a party of the former regime to get some results with our hands in our pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49516	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49517	Just a brief comment, Minister, since we obviously didn't understand each other. When I'm talking about it, nobody's going to do it, I'm talking about documentation, about what's written and said in the National Assembly and in the acts of the National Assembly, not about the Law on Culture, on the contrary, but this is one very serious thing that obviously doesn't seem serious to anyone but us. But the number's going to increase, that's how it's always been.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49518	Thank you. The minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49519	I didn't understand what you were thinking earlier. That's why I reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49520	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49521	This amendment, namely this member, establishes the obligations of cultural institutions that are otherwise defined by the founding act and represent the substance of the founding act. I asked the question today why did it need to be broken into a legal code? We're told it's a standard of declarative character. This law seems to be filled with such standards. I also told the board today that this is a bureaucratic law. It turns out that it is the result of the EU's request, as we are told, that this is the result of the Ministry of Labour's request, that this is the result of the Commissioner's request for information of public importance, and it seems that it is only not the result of the wishes and will of the cultural community and of the artists to whom this law applies. And whether or not the law was read, if you were on the board today, you would see a lot of evidence that, from spelling mistakes to material errors found in the debate, we have received a law that has not even passed a spelling lesson. So this is really something that I, as a People's MP, have not seen in a congregation procedure for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49522	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanovic. Minister, you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49523	I'm really sorry, but I just have to explain for the citizens of Serbia who may not know the procedure. So it is necessary to comply with this law with the opinions of the ministry of others. It is necessary to comply with this requirement with what the European Commission's recommendations are, because it is simply a normal process, such as the normal process that you are starting from public debates. Before the public debate, the truth, we sent the first draft law to the opinion of the National Council, after which we had a public hearing, etc. However, what is strange to me is that this particular member of the 12th that you have proposed, the honourable Parliament of Marjanovic, next to you and Natasa Vukkovic, Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic, you have suggested that it be deleted. He was added to the National Cultural Council's suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49524	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49525	Mr. Minister has just said one thing that has made me very confused. He said the law must be an expression of consent and must take into account the opinions of various ministries and we, of course, know that as MPs. It is normal for every law to pass various councils in the government, various working bodies, and for each minister and every ministry that has some touch points with one bill to be declared. What surprises me is how is it that the part that spoke about national pensions and the proposal to abolish national pensions did not pass that kind of consent in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? We have a strange situation to put forward a bill, and then the Prime Minister says -- and, no, I disagree with that, in fact, the proposal to abolish national pensions and they should return. So to what extent do we really coordinate a bill in government, and to what extent do we not coordinate? Was there a minister, when he proposed this law, maybe a little bit counting on some kind of ignorance of this government in cultural matters, so he suggested some things that he thought would pass, and they didn't really pass? Or was he counting on some other stuff? In any case, it's something that's very confusing, and our public, as well as us as MPs. How come you're synchronizing some things and you're not coordinating some things?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49526	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49527	I would only ask you not to insult the Serbian government by qualified for impoliteness. I just don't think that's right. However, what I am pleased with, here you see on your own case, you have carefully listened to the National Council and have not accepted all their suggestions. So you disagreed on this previous member. Let the Ministry of Culture and Information have the same right. It's important that we talk very well, which doesn't mean, and it's impossible to agree on 100 percent, because how can I tell you, 100 percent of consent existed only in some regimes that were long gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49528	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49529	I thank you, Chairman. I didn't mean to offend anyone, but I just wanted to say next. So, during the preparation of this law, the National Council for Culture delivered a negative opinion on this proposal to abolish national pensions. You didn't consider that proposal when you proposed a bill to the government. With that law of yours, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture passed the government, and then the Prime Minister said he agrees with the opinion of the National Council for Culture that national pensions should not be abolished. This is a very confusing process and procedure. In what way are laws actually passed? How does your ministry operate within the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It is something that we want to know as MPs, and they want to know both cultural and artistic followers because it seems that there is one great dissonance between the activities of your ministry and all those institutions you call upon and which you say you agree with them your actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49530	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. (Vesna Marjanović, from town: Replica. ) The Republic had an authorised representative of your group, but please, if you insist, you have a word. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49531	I'll be very brief, but just so there's no doubt that we MPs don't know how the adoption procedures work within the government and within the Assembly. We know there's supposed to be a consensus, but my question was, and I'm going to check that out, be assured, did the demands that the Committee was talking about today, which were the reasons for individual solutions to this law, really were requests or did the Ministry of Culture not even want to respond? My question is this - then how is it possible to adopt other ministries' demands, to adopt requests from some reports, and not to adopt the demands of artists to whom this law applies? I'll just say one sentence. The amendments and additions to the Law on Culture which has not received the support of any professional association in the field of culture are now before the Members of the Republic of Parliament and on which no cultural worker has said a single nice word. This is a statement from the art associations that was published today in the paper. This is my question for Minister Tasovec – for whom did he write this law, if not for artists and institutions of culture?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49532	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49533	First of all, I didn't say you didn't know the procedure. I was very precise for those people who are looking at us to explain that the law has to be part of the legal system. I don't know why you found yourself personally called here. Also, I think it's a good thing that this law is passed with this much passion, that it's a good thing that there's so much sharp debate and it's no different from the debate when the previous law on culture is passed, and I'm sure that's how it's going to be when every next law on culture is passed, because it's the cultural consequences of those who are extremely committed to their work and who are extremely focused on what is their part, whether it's art, whether it's some part of the experts in culture, so everyone thinks that it's the most important part of it is both for him and the audience that's following it. If anyone knows, I do. At a time when it's necessary to put it in a wider picture, when it's necessary to fit in to balance, first and foremost separate what's culture, on the other hand to balance between what's art and what's culture, then we come to a point where it's impossible to reach the kind of consensus that I'd like to have. But the moment we in parliament reach a kind of consensus on that culture is one of the priorities, we have already taken a big step and sent a very good message to those dedicated to the extremes of people who spend their entire lives between art and culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49534	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49535	Mr. Becic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my humble opinion in a democratic society that the diversity of opinions is a good thing. That verse of different opinions always comes in quality and the best solution always comes in. But just before, we heard from the People's Parliament, the honourable messengers, that the difference of opinion for it is confusing. Since when is it confusing to have different opinions, to have a dialogue on these different opinions and to come up with the best solutions? Of the same people's messengers, when there is an agreement, they say, ‘That is one-mindedness.’ Tell the men what suits you? What kind of procedure in passing a law is good for you without being unanimity without being confused without getting such an epithet? I'd like to talk about the amendment and read Article 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture to which the amendment has been submitted and which the proposings wish to delete. They want to delete that the obligation of a culture institution founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government, is to contribute to the preservation, research, study, representation, collection and promotion of domestic, cultural and artistic heritage, as well as domestic cultural and artistic contemporary creation. What's the matter with that? So what are the institutions in the cultural field going to do to create them, a unit of local self-government, an autonomous province or a republic? What's their obligation? What are these people going to do besides what's been defined by this bill? We're either going to write in some law, so you know we're setting up cultural institutions where we're going to hire party personnel or there's going to be a commitment of culture institutions to what, promote local politicians. Why doesn't this form suit you? I can expect that we can talk about some better formulation, about expanding the scope of jobs, and I'd say that's okay. But, erase this, means put what, blank paper, white paper, that they're doing nothing. I think that, and I've talked to people from the local self-government that I live in, and I've talked to people who really, really, I can't say for years, I can tell them to create a cultural life in the local environment that I'm from in Vranjska Banja. These are people who work, no matter what political furniture it was. Je je je je je je je je boško Ruđinčanin, one Jelena Borović Dinić, one Milan Nikodijević who participated in the work and in the making of the majority, and this year there will be 40 years of Film Screenplay Festival. Everyone agreed to this definition, because what other definition would that be? What else would fit, rather than as defined by the bill? That is why I think the amendment strategy itself – it is deleted, without a proposal as to how or perhaps better to exempt the Autonomous Region, because yet the Autonomous Region, under the leadership of Mr Pajtic, has some other obligations around Heterland, around the Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund, there are these things that put money in their pockets and I believe that this definition of the institution of culture and the obligation of culture is not in line with them and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will refuse such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49536	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49537	First thing, we've predicted erasing this amendment, or erasing this article because it's unnecessary, it's declarative. This is foreseen by the founding acts of every institution of culture, what it does and what it is responsible for. As far as one brain is concerned, you could not conclude from my statement that I am one-minded, I just said the following – the minister is calling for a consensus when making laws with various ministries and with various institutions. My question was – did the minister, when he proposed a draft to the government, point out that there were disagreements on the proposal to abolish national pensions, as he suggested, so did he say that very important institutions as the National Council for Culture were against the proposal set out in the draft? Is that what the government was discussing? In my opinion, I should have. It's something that would talk about a democratic debate in the government about what comes before the Assembly. Obviously, it was not, because I do not believe that after such a debate, the Prime Minister should at the last minute pop up with his appeal to the public, in front of the Serbian Parliament at the moment when we are already discussing this proposal and propose that such a provision be abolished by the bill. So that's my question. The other thing I'm trying to say is, this law isn't just for cultural Members and artists, and I believe we'll agree on that. It's very important to them, because it's their job and it's their profession and it's their commitment as you said correctly. But this law is passed for all citizens of Serbia and is passed for the state and people in general. It is very important, because we are one, if you want a culturally broken community with many wars, deep crises, great doubts, citizens confused with various reforms and changes that have been carried out for 20, 30 years. Our culture is constantly in danger, and one nation must today make those values and create that heritage that will be of some value for future generations. We have to establish these laws on culture. I'm afraid this kind of culture law makes it very much impossible for ministers to do so. We must, of course, guard our heritage left to us by our ancestors centuries ago, but we must make laws so that they allow for the serious creation of cultural goods and values today. I'm afraid this isn't the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49538	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. Just a plea, not to be that the chairman is always guilty. The main debate was two days ago, and I'd like to ask you to focus, however, on the amendments that are the subject of the debate. (Nataša Vukkovic, from the post: I only answered the minister. It's okay, I haven't interrupted you, but I'd like to ask you to follow only the amendments that are under discussion in the future. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, you want the line. Minister, the advantage has a replica, as the Prime Minister and the party president have been mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49539	What I would like to call upon the esteemed Mrs. Vuckovic, whom I truly highly respect and appreciate and appreciate as a very eloquent person, that in the future you do not use these expressions that the prime minister pops up, because we are not on an athletic track, nor is he on an athletic track, yet we can use a more adequate term. I'm sure Mrs. Vuchkovic wasn't the intention of any insult, but I'm glad my colleagues are having fun. It's okay, if jumping out is the reason for the party, it's good. It's probably that they've seen this leap in the Maldives or Opatija or I don't know in these resorts that are favorites for Democrats. But here and for the past two days, and today it's kind of getting through... (Gordana Comić, from the scene: This is not an insult? If Mrs. Comic would allow me, I would continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49540	Keep going, Mr. Babico, and please don't criticize your co-worker, she's just got her smile back on their faces, so don't criticize them for it now. Thank you. (Gordana Comić, from the place: If there is a mockery, then... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49541	I'll wait for this chat and this throw, I don't have a problem, I'll really wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49542	Please, Mrs. Comic, allow Mr. Babic to complete the exhibition. I've reacted enough and criticised Mr. Babic for warning you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49543	But what really doesn't stand, and what's been going on over the past few days, it's that someone wanted to cancel national pensions. Well, I would like to invite you to read the position of Article 2 of Article 44, and we will also come up with an amendment to Article 44 which says that all persons who have acquired the right to receive recognition for the ultimate contribution to national culture, i.e. the culture of national minorities, in the form of a lifelong monthly income, until the beginning of the application of this law retain that right. Which is why someone is constantly, even earlier in the presentation of an esteemed colleague, you wanted to abolish at some point the right to a national pension? Why, when it is clearly defined by Article 2 44, that it is the right acquired and retaining that right? Because of the supernadal process of assigning these national pensions, because of 30, 40 or not, I don't know how many people who didn't deserve something like that, we didn't want to punish those other people we grew up with, who we educated with. But with the same right, but in a transparent and correct way, we want to leave the right to the government that the people who will leave that trail will be adequately and rewarded in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49544	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49545	I just want to talk about what's written, not what someone wants it to be written.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49546	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49547	You resented the previous member of the law for being declarative. Although in a lot of things you've said I can agree with you on the role of culture at the moment, it was still one of the declarative views that you said. Also, my position on national pensions has been clearly carried out here in the Assembly and in public. I just don't understand why anyone, regardless of their function, would be denied the right to make his position public. I think it's just a legitimate right, so I don't know what your surprise is that the Prime Minister has made his point. It's on one side. On the other hand, let me answer your question specifically. Of course not only on this issue, but on many other issues were debates within the government. In the end, unfortunately, you weren't at the end, I don't even know if you were at the plenary session, but I have repeatedly repeated that final decisions are being made right in the House of the National Assembly, respecting all democratic procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49548	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica! ) You will receive a replica, only a long wait Mr. Risticevic, so he is already a little dissatisfied. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, I've understood that I'm a little short on this one, as it were, the Duke of Maldives, but regardless, I understand that the promoter is seeking to preserve cultural heritage. I understand that from the amendment's proposal. How when Article 25a, i.e. Article 12, which is to add Article 25a to the basic law, the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, the province itself, or the unit of local self-government, have an obligation among other things to preserve artistic heritage, as well as domestic cultural and artistic contemporary creation. If someone's trying to protect their heritage, and they're asking for this to be erased, then it's not clear to me how someone stands up for our heritage. It may be sweeter to them than others, but I believe that the artistic heritage, that the culture and art of our people, that what they said that our ancestors left us, that we, the whole country, including culture and art, must at least leave in the same condition as our descendants, in relation to how our ancestors left us state, culture, art. We have an obligation, which here says, to preserve the cultural heritage and the art of our people and this state by our work. If anyone proposes to delete this, then I understand that someone else's sweeter and then it's about that: don't stay here, the sun of the Serbian sky won't warm you up like the Maldives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49550	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49551	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to remove one doubt, which is why I insist on how the proposal went to the government and how it arrived before the Assembly and why the Prime Minister had to react at the last minute. Here, I'm not gonna use that word I just said. It's not about her. It's about the lawmaking process. This is why, Minister, or Mr. Chairman, so you tell the minister. Because the way the bill arrived in the assembly, then disproved one of the key provisions by the Prime Minister, threatened the credibility of the culture minister and the culture ministry. Because all cultural MPs and all artists would expect this particular ministry to be the best way to coordinate all ministries, all competent institutions, come up with one proposal, propose a bill to the Assembly that would be agreed. The way the Prime Minister reacted about this law says it wasn't done. We, as citizens of this country, are wrong and sorry that the Ministry of Culture is thus losing credibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49552	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49553	I highly appreciate your concern for the credibility of the Ministry of Culture and Information. I feel the same fear of your party's credibility, but you're simply missing out, do you by any chance, on purpose, that this text of article 14 is simply different from what it was before. It may be details, but I think they're extremely important. Read carefully Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49554	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic, but the application would still be to you if we didn't spread, we're still on amendment to Article 12. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49555	I don't think Mr. Secretary makes the difference between the political party and the ministry, and given where we are. So it is our job as MPs, elected by ministers and government, to make sure that they have some credibility in the public and in the area they cover. It is not the minister's task to take care of the political parties that make up parliament, because he is elected here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49556	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49557	I'm using the time of my authorized proposing. I just wanted to say one more very important thing. An important discussion was opened by Mr. Secretary. I made a statement this morning about Prime Minister Vukic's decision to retain his national recognition and I welcomed it. So that's not at all controversial. We just wonder – if it were fortunate to talk in the media about other disputed places in this law, perhaps today we could discuss other issues in a different way. What's the question here is the Minister of Tasovec's behavior. The question is, who is right? Minister Tasovac today or Minister Tasovac today, after this decision by Prime Minister Vukic? What about the other provisions of the Law that we are about to discuss, which are very controversial and which cause very, very negative reactions to the cultural public that he may not have had time to hear about? I believe we might have a better law today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49558	Mrs. Marjanovic, the Prime Minister has made the government's position clear in this case as well. It is my request that we return to the amendment, and that we no longer talk about it, when the Serbian public is very familiar with the government's position and the Prime Minister's. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49559	I will repeat again, personal views are one thing, however, decisions are made in institutions. You know who's doing the draft law, you know who's doing the bill, you know the whole procedure, and in the end, I have great respect for what parliament is about to make the final decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49560	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49561	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is about one of the most important places in this law, which is the selection of cultural institutions directors. The change proposed here actually centralizes the decision-making in the image of the minister. I talked about it in principle, about his undemocratic tendency to show any decision-making in culture the desire to make its own decisions. This is where the boards of directors, which are otherwise composed of prominent experts and cultural experts, turned into a technical service for the collection of documentation. They will conduct the contest, collect documents, talk to the candidates and then deliver it to Mr. Minister, who will ultimately decide who will be the director without any obligation. Now, maybe that's the policy the minister has the right to change the policy of selecting personnel. I think it's wrong, but if he already wanted to centralize, which then he didn't do it bravely, so he went back to that old system, abolished the powers of the board of directors, that the Ministry was calling for a contest, so let the minister decide in the end who's the director? So this is one farce, a complete farce, by disposing of the board of directors, in which some people who are experts, artists, who should be wondering who will be the directors of our institutions. The idea of the basic text of the law has just been to departize and depolitize the selection of directors and to have much more influence on artists and professions themselves. This is being centralized now, but so it's supposed to be that the board of directors is still doing something, and it's actually doing nothing, doing administrative work, which is not only wrong, it's offensive and it's not brave. I mean, Mr. Minister, you should have been completely open to centralize the selection of those directors, so your intention would be completely obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49562	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49563	I try not to use a qualification debate such as "non-democratic", such as "farce", because here we are talking about the Law on Culture and exactly the desire to strengthen the institutions of culture, because it is one of the basic priorities of the Ministry of Culture and Information. I don't think you're interpreting this member in the right way, given that the boards of directors now have the obligation to rank and give an explanation for each candidate, which is why the Ministry of Culture and Information has insight into all candidates simply, it is earlier by delivering only one candidate and incomplete documentation. I particularly draw your attention here that this applies to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, meaning, and local self-government. It seems to me that through this system on the one hand we will have insight into how the boards work, and you will allow us as founders to have that right, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to those people who compete, who will also have insight into that documentation, in the way of points, in the explanation and everything else, to give them the opportunity to have legal protection. It seems to me it's a far more transparent process. You're talking about how the boards are gonna become, I don't know how you said it, I'm sorry if I'm misquoting, some kind of mailbox. Excuse me, please, do you feel that the Ministry of Culture and Information should be a mailbox that will only forward one name that has been designated by the Management Board, with all respect to the Management Board, and then, when a mistake is made and the public is not satisfied with it, bear all the responsibility that the Management Board has thus made the decision. It seems to me that this is a good step towards professionalisation and full transparency in the election of directors, and no single government has ever made certain failures in that segment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49564	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, master of Dr Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I think the minister is wrong to say that this is a solution which now, in a different way, regulates the way culture institutions are elected, that it is better and more transparent, that it will raise quality and allow candidates to know how their work was appreciated. It is one of the norms found in this article, or two expressions, that are, that says: “Unauthorized and incomprehensible applications will be rejected. ” It is one term that does not exist in legal practice in Serbia. I don't know how the board of directors should appreciate what's incomprehensible or incomprehensible or incomplete. We think that in this way, there are enough ways – untimely, unauthorized and unaccompanied and not all the necessary evidence, we think that it is quite enough and that if the government really wanted to ensure greater transparency of the entire election, it should have made such vague provisions in Article 15. The amendment proposal and the addition of the Law shall be deleted. Also, I say, this whole member is controversial. The minister was now speaking – there will be a list, candidates will be ranked on the list. But the minister does not say that the founder was given the right to choose any candidate, regardless of the ranking sent by the board. There is no way anyone, dissatisfied with such a decision, would challenge the process. This is precisely the issue, which policy will now have a much greater influential choice of directors than it has ever been before. So far, the boards of directors, made up of people of culture experts, have been members of the board of directors in the highest number, proposing one candidate, based on a competition done, the founder. He could have accepted the proposal or refused. So, much less the influence of politics has been so far than this. The board will make a list, you said they'd rank, you can't see from this, even though you've written a lot of things, you didn't write that the list draws up in some order, you're talking about a list. The list goes ahead of the founders, and when the founder of the government goes to the ministry. The minister, specifically for institutions founded by the Republic, proposes a name to the government on the list. So it's pure politics. So it will be on the territory of an autonomous province, that is, for those institutions and local self-government, and that is problematic, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49566	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49567	Mr. Minister, I can understand this amendment, really, half and half. I am sure that Mr. Djurisic will agree that the incomprehensible could remain as an integral part of the law, yet those applications can be in some part incomprehensible, can happen, by negligence, by intent or whatever, but this – unauthorized and I do not understand why it stands in the law. If we want to put restrictions on someone not being able to apply, to fill out a report if they're suspected of certain crimes, etc., conflict of jurisdiction or something, we could have defined it a little differently, because this allowed, unauthorized somehow affects some freedoms. In my personal opinion, we could have done something different. So, if it was intended to allow someone, not allow for conflict of interest whether it's a crime or whatever, if it's a suspect, it's okay, but let's just try to define it differently, because I think it's incomprehensible that we should still stay in law because of those things that they can do in the context of these applications and find themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49568	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49569	Exactly the word "unauthorized" is used when it comes to conflict of interest. So, legally, termologically, it's common, let's say, specifically for conflict of interest. You know what, if you see nothing but evil in your mind, I can't help it, there was really an intensity here to increase transparency and to increase the public when choosing the director of cultural institutions. After all, when competitions occur, when you have commissions, the minister eventually signs and can sign or do not sign the commission's decision. During the entire term of office, there is no commission decision, whether from the field of culture or from the field of information that I have changed and which I have not signed. I think it's a standard as long as there are commissions, as long as we don't get into a situation that maybe it just sorts out at some point that the minister discreetly in any ministry determines everything. So simply, quoting, but to shorten this story, because you said everything in the first sentence, that you think I'm wrong. I think you're wrong when you think the minister is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49570	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49571	Thank you, Chairman. You've just convinced me that I'm right when I think you're wrong because you said that so far you've signed everything that's been signed by the committees, all the candidates that the commission has proposed to you. Now, you see, when this law is passed you will no longer have a commission proposal, you will have a list from which you will choose a candidate. You as a politician, in some AP culture secretary, in local self-government, I don't know which organ there will be in charge and which person, to choose, means, the politician will now be in charge of selecting one from the list. That is why this is a controversial, greater policy-influence in the selection of personnel than has been the solution so far. So far, you have been able to say yes or no to any candidate at the cultural institution level, and now you're going to be the one to choose. So politics will choose directly, not waist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49572	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49573	I now think you're right when you thought I was wrong because I wasn't precise enough. I didn't mean any commissions that are related to the selection of directors, but commissions that are related to the selection of projects. In particular, the committees that select projects in the field of public information, which as you know are mostly representatives of media and journalistic associations, and this part called by the ministry are representatives given by the Citizens' Protector, the Trustee for Gender Equality, the Protector for Classified Information, representatives of some of the most critical, to say, the media according to the work of the Ministry itself, such as the People of the Truthometer, and no decision has been changed. That's what I meant when I said that just the moment you have commissions, it's about competitions. Here's exactly the possibility, I'm saying, there's got to be a full explanation, so, with a biography, a way to score, how they came to that decision, because simple practice has shown that we have to take over in the election of the director that kind of responsibility not to be just a mailbox.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49574	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would return to our amendment, if you had been on the nine-hour Committee of Culture, I asked the same question as my colleague Djurisic. So, for the first time, I see that when applying, of course, you're looking at it for the selection of directors, you're not going to consider illegal and incomprehensible applications. I insisted that the representatives of the government tell us what an illegal application is. I understand the untimely, and I understand the incomplete, but I don't understand the incomprehensible, because the one who is incomprehensible, the illiterate, however she may not even consider herself. So, I'm asking the government's representatives to explain to us what this means in the opinion of Article 5 of this 15th Act. So, tell us what incomprehensible and unauthorized reports mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49576	Thank you. Replica, Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49577	It seems to me that we just absorbed the notion of illegal application. If you need an example, it's illegal for me to apply for the director of the Vranj theatre at the moment. It's not allowed when you have a conflict of interest. I mean, we've given an answer to the question and again I'm saying insisting and creating an illusion like it was about the jurisdiction of the national council where literally two words have been changed, and you add, by creating that kind of illusion that these are some kind of, let me say, spectacular, cardinal dramatic thing, I don't know which of them has an interest. Culture, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49578	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49579	Honorable ministers with associates, you are not convincing, Mr. Minister, because - unauthorized, that you have explained that it is illegal and that you did not explain what an incomprehensible application leaves room for you to make such an application, or one that does not suit you to declare such an application. What's incomprehensible to you? Here, I'll give you an example in the last two days. It was completely incomprehensible for you that we were looking for a permanent stay of national pensions, and you couldn't possibly understand us, i.e. We were incomprehensible to you that it should exist because it was maltene national evil, so then you realized that we were right or someone helped you understand, but we certainly didn't. As was the story here that this proposal was made on article 14 by someone else. I, believe me, would have been the luckiest man in the world if it were really so, if it had come from that MP group, because it would have been one light at the end of the tunnel, where at least some hope would exist. But we all know that's not the case. Therefore, you must be more convincing in reasons of incomprehensible nature and inadmissible. You know, illegal in a legal sense can also be other characteristics that you as a competent minister can declare and that such applications will not be considered. I think this has left room to manipulate the rejection of certain, so-called, unspeakable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49580	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Members of the 16th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49581	The Social Democratic Party Group – Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to Article 18 of the amendment, which reads "Article 18 is deleted". In an explanation, we would like to say that you have provided for this Article 18 in attitude 2: "at least one half" is replaced by the words "at least one of", which certainly reduces the democratic capacity and potential of the Committee, because one half is still a larger guarantee than one member – "at least one half" is replaced by the words "one of them". Also, Article 7 adds a new position 8 which reads: "In the event of the prevention of the Chair of the Management Board, a session of the Management Board may..."... This is a regulation that belongs more to the Rules of Procedure than to the law in which it is put. I think that's because I'm not a lawyer, because the law says there's a board of directors, and the board of directors brings a rules of procedure that provides for who to hold a session in case the chairman of the board of directors is not present. So the democratic capacity of the board of directors is reduced this way, by you, instead of half of the board members being from that branch, being one of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49582	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49583	I've been at the head of an institution of culture for 12.5 years and I know all my colleagues. So the maximum number of board members is either three or five. Now, half of three is a little hard to implement in practice, as is half of five. In an attempt to solve this problem, we simply wrote in the law what is practically applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49584	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bijanin, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meso Omerović, Branko Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic together and the national MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meso Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49585	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is about another provision behind which, if you could say so, somehow leads to another attempt by the culture minister to sort of manage the institutions of culture and to prevent their autonomy and freedom in decisions, in things that should really be left to them. Here, as a binding provision, it lists the formation of committee councils, artistic councils, programming committees, whether it is a small establishment, which, for example, has three or four employees in a gallery and now needs, in addition to the board of directors in some situations, despite the artistic director, to form some other bodies and now that this bureaucracy and some sort of megalomanic construction of works of culture institutions. About the fact that it's absolutely "par excellency" matter of the statutes, I won't even talk. So you are completely limiting the institutions and boards to adopt their statutes and to regulate the work of their institutions in the manner they consider to be the most impoverished and the size of the institution and the activity they perform, and the number of employees and the number of people who are artistic and the number of people who are administrative or technical cadre. Why is this provision binding, it's really completely unclear? And I'm sure no one will like it, but it's mostly incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49586	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49587	It's simply a desire to raise the capacity of the facility. And just to be clear, it means, it's not called both artistic and programming advice, it's one of these tips, and it just seems to me that what actually informally works in every institution is kind of getting its institutional character. Because people, anyway... I'll wait for you to finish, but if you're not interested in this answer, then there's really no need for me to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49588	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic. Thank you. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll use my authorized time. Article 24 refers to cultural institutions of national importance and determines the concept of cultural institutions. In the principle debate, I said that apart from the so-called national pensions, the boards of directors that are practically no longer present, this is one of the most important members that is being deleted. Then I insisted, and now I will also insist that the minister change his mind and simply accept our amendment and do not delete this member. In the principle debate, it is said that 60 cultural institutions received an epithet - of national importance, and I then recommended to you, or suggested that the government deal with some institutions that had been passed by the rules, past the criteria, the government simply by the same procedure as it chose and recalled them. I will remind you of the position of 2nd of this article, of course, in the first position is described what the institution of culture means, in point 2, it is said – the status of culture institutions of national importance is obtained by the government's act on a proposal from the Ministry, with the previous opinion of the Council. So the government is responsible, of course the Ministry. I hope you understand the weight of what you're doing. In the last position of this member, it is said – the government is closer to regulating the conditions, criteria and method of obtaining, i.e. to subtracting the status of cultural institutions from national importance. I still think that both the Government and the Ministry, primarily the Ministry, should assume responsibility and that as it has easily given the status of cultural institutions of national importance, it is brave, it is a really big job, I suppose many cultural institutions that have received this status will react, but some cultural institutions should be deprived of this status precisely because they have probably received this status under suspicious circumstances. Once again, I ask you to consider this proposal, and I would refer to the explanation that we have received to reject this amendment, where it is said, among other things, that the founders of the culture institutions will have an obligation to finance their functioning, and given that in this respect, the indisputable position of the founders at the republican and provincial level, the local self-government units, this system will not cause confusion in the responsibilities of financing the functioning of these institutions. Mr. Minister, this is an explanation for Article 26, not 24, which determines the concept of cultural institutions of national importance. I ask your associates to take care of the reasons they give us, because the MPs read. I suppose if the minister reads, if he reads the government, if he reads the Prime Minister, then MPs read it. I read every explanation I get carefully. Of course, this will certainly be neither the first nor the last explanation so insurmountably. I still say the law is extremely bad and you still have a chance to pull it out of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49590	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49591	Thank you. This is one of those proposals that the minister proposed to us about which there is great resistance and a huge and negative reaction to cultural circles, art associations and cultural institutions. The explanation given to us by the minister, and by the Government, is that this institute is being abolished because it has been misrepresented in practice, and the practice of implementing this institute was to be conducted by the Ministry, or the Government. So they said -- we're not able to implement this institute, we're unable to practice and apply this institute, and that's why we're going to end it, which is why we're actually going to hurt the most institutions themselves and punish them. I spoke in the principle debate that it is amazing that we cannot be proud of the institutions that last in the Republic of Serbia for several centuries, that a Yugoslav cinema or the Yugoslav Drama Theatre or the Museum of Contemporary Art did not deserve to bear the status of the institution of national importance, and that the explanation - is not applicable in practice, because we do not know how to apply it in practice. What kind of explanation is that? Read every amendment and every memo. I am truly surprised that my fellow MPs, who all received these memos, and heard the reasonings of the people, were unable to respect them. This is one of the things that, unfortunately, the media didn't get enough to write about, but the artists did talk about it, and it's really kind of a scandal. In the principle debate, Mr. Minister even abused the statement of a director, trying to distort what he wanted to say, and actually the directors of the institute had great expectations of this institute, because the minister began his mandate by saying – we will take care of the institutions and start to value, to distinguish between those who are special in their work and who are trying to stand out for their highest reach in art and in their functioning. By abolishing this institute, you'll end that possibility. I don't think there's any explanation that's serious and that could satisfy people who are dealing with culture today and who are headed by our largest institutions of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49592	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49593	I apologize if I'm going to insult someone in the O.R., but I'm the only one here who's been the director of an institution of culture, who's been bearing the name of an institution of culture of national importance. Indeed, from experience I can tell you that in practice it showed nothing but something that represents, how can I say, a declarative nature, just some badge. There is a direct problem in this because the different founders of institutions of which, as I tell you, it is not necessary by law to prescribe it, the audience itself very well recognises which institutions are of national importance, the profession itself recognises which institutions are of national importance. But the goal of this law is to clear things up and make it simple and clear, which wasn't the case in the previous law, but again I'm saying, I'm giving credit to those who did it, because it was the first system law in the field of culture. Since 2010, when it started to apply, many things have proved inapplicable. Again, I repeat to you, indeed, the very institutions of culture of national importance, is not a question here, those who have just unworthyly received this recognition, but it is simply a question of those institutions that rightly bear that title, or I don't know how to call it at all, and we can't actually valorize it through financial means, that is to give them the advantage of funding, simply because of the different levels of founders. If we were to apply it, we would thus fully devise project co-financing and competition. I think that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49594	Time. Thank you. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić, and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49595	Thank you. Article 25, proposed by the Government, is - a member of the 53rd law has been deleted. We have suggested that this member of the law remain, that as a previous member, this whole section of the law that deals with cultural institutions of national importance. The minister now, trying to explain why he decided to completely erase the concept of cultural institutions of national importance, justified by funding, different levels of founders, that there were problems in practice. Then the minister of this great epochal reform government took one move to abolish everything and that in Serbia no more cultural institution has, perhaps even that declarative, as you said, thought was not important, the name of culture institutions of national importance. We think it's important that there are cultural institutions of national importance. Whether it's 60, or 10, or five, we could talk about it, but we won't be able to talk anymore. If you accept the solution that you have proposed, there will be no institution of national importance, no founder of the Republic and the Autonomous province, no local self-government. So zero. All of them will lose, as you said, only a declaration of title and will continue to finance themselves as they have so far financed. What kind of message are we sending? Are we sending a message that no institution of culture has the meaning that this state can say this is an institution of culture of national importance? Is that a message that no one is worth it and that we as a society are not at that level that we can say -- here, these five? If you had proposed some legal solution that he's going to say now that we're going to reset everything, to start from zero, we're going to establish in the next six months on a proposal from the council, and I don't know how, by some procedure, some number of institutions, and we're going to say these are national institutions of national importance to the Republic of Serbia. You're off it now. No one will ever have that declaration again, and neither will they. You speak then they'll know people, they'll determine. What, the market's gonna decide? Is this where the market should determine what it is of national importance? If the market in Serbia determines, among other things, and your work, as Minister of Culture and Public Information, then it will probably be those places where they are recorded realistically, so there in Barajev or I don't know where these other realitys are recorded will be cultural institutions of national importance. Minister, we believe that there should be cultural institutions of national importance, that there should be talk about what institutions they are, that they should be established in one transparent way and that they should know what the state considers to be of paramount importance to culture in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49596	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49597	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, when it comes to this prefix we're talking about today, the national cultural institutions, I think we can see back a few years of the ministry's different relationship with this issue. First of all, after 2000, to remind myself, he came to the power of a minister who, without reason, had some institution that had a provision in the law that they were national institutions and had been defined by law to finance themselves from the budget, deleted them from the law and thus abolished their existence. They then had a safe place under that law and there was a reason why they were founded. Later, the criteria were mixed, so that as national institutions they had defined themselves and those formed on the basis of local community decisions and could not, on that basis, be in line with the institutions that had previously been non-participated, as institutions of national importance. Later on, we have a situation that those institutions of national importance for which we have love and respect for them and the belief that they are, and should be, realising programs that are not relevant to such a type of institution as they bear or their services, since they are closed they do not realize in a way that citizens use them. In view of such a single galaxy of relationships, at this point I think the most painless solution is this species. In doing so, I would, of course, suggest that the Government, in the coming period, or ministry, have the desire and the need to bring all institutions to the level of quality and scope of work, allow these institutions, which, by our deep conviction and historical memory, to be properly evaluated and funded, to adequately implement their programme, and therefore, in the future period, should, in the future law and define the institutions by name and last name they will be. The fact that those financed from the budget are the ones that... By funding from the budget and having that kind of support, above all, they are defined as institutions of that kind and level, but at the same time being accompanied by adequate programmes that are being implemented at that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49598	Thank you. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karić and together by the MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49599	This is a member who determines the funding of an institution of culture of national importance. In his explanation, which we read in detail, as one of the reasons why this entire institute was abolished said that the main problem was financing. I may be a little banalizing, but I'm going to read the article both first and second and try to prove to the minister and his associates that there's no dilemma about funding. So, point 1 is said: cultural institutions of national importance, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, are primarily financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 – other cultural institutions of national importance have the right to priority funding of programmes and projects financed, i.e. co-financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a public competition implemented. I don't even know what's not clear about it. It's perfectly clear who's funding from what part of the funds. If cultural institutions are of national importance to you, Mr. Minister, just a badge, I suppose for those who work in them, that's not the case. I mean artists, I mean all those who have left their entire working life in such institutions. That's why I think you owe everyone an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49600	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49601	I would like to support what my colleague Karavidić said and that in some way, the cynical explanation we have received, except that this institute is inapplicable in practice, and I repeat the practice is conducted only by the ministry, that it is impossible to provide a particular type or kind of support in the form of funding. On the contrary, I believe that in times of crisis and budget cuts, this institute has an even greater significance, because when our institutions are threatened, when culture lacks sufficient resources, then we particularly care for our oldest and most significant institutions. One such example is the National Library of Serbia. It was founded in 1832, and the institution of national importance has been under law since 1881, then under the Law on the National Library of Serbia of 1901, and all since the 1992 Law on General Interest in Culture. Now it must again be proven that it would gain status, i.e. it is deprived of the status of an institution of national importance. It's your legislation, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49602	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49603	I could really expect anything in my life, but that you would explain to me the importance of a culture institution, I couldn't imagine. I repeat, for 12 and a half years I have been at the head of an institution of culture and I know very well what problems are in the institutions of culture and I know very well what problems my colleagues, former fellow directors face. And it is every move of the ministry and government that these problems are being solved step by step, but that they are being dealt with specifically, rather than declaratively. It is viewed through the maximum separation of what is estrad compared to what is culture. Simply through that kind, only this kind of savings we have managed to enable at this point maximum if possible for those of our institutions that we are founders of additional funds for programmes, and we have helped many other institutions that we are not founders through competitions. I think at this point it's what's most important, because if you want to score cheap points through financing what, I don't mind that there are, but what used to go through the Ministry of Culture, and it represents commercial manifestations like Exit or Guce, of course you'll have less money left for the National Theatre programmes or any museum. So this is the first step, and to me it seems simple, I say this is the process one. We need to strengthen, first of all, the institutions financially, we need to finish what infrastructure works are, we need to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49604	Time, Mr. Minister. Please, just finish the sentence, but it's my duty to warn you in time. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Mrs. Marjanovic, I would ask you to give up reporting to the Rules of Procedure. You'll get a replica, you'll get any other basis, but let's not go back to the Rules of Procedure. Can you respect my request? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49605	I wanted to, in fact, suggest to you, Mr. Chairman, since Mr. Minister, I find it a little bit funny, but there is a custom to complain about how it is possible for him to say, "you MPs, you will ask me a question." He forgets that he is here a representative of the government, and we are MPs, representatives of the citizens, and we are not only entitled to ask him questions, but it is our duty. So please, when he says something like that again, remind him on behalf of all of us MPs here in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49606	I'll take care of it, but I also appreciate that you're giving a harsh word to the minister and in some ways the minister is trying to, on the other hand, make arguments, so I thought I shouldn't react, but if you insist, I'll take care of it. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? What? (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? She received a replica of Mrs. Marjanovic. She didn't pick up after the Rules of Procedure. Here's a word from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49607	Mr. Minister, you're saying again that this initiative of yours to abolish the institutions of culture is part of the national importance of the process and that we need to strengthen financial institutions, that we have to invest in infrastructure, and then we'll probably see what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. Maybe it would sound nice to someone, maybe we could believe that you're not two years in office and see what you've been doing for those two years, specifically, on these things you're talking about. So, let's say, on that investment in infrastructure, you set up some watches to count the days until the work is done. When the first hour counted zero, since the completion of the work, there's been nothing, there's been one big zero. When the citizens came to see what would happen when that clock counted zero, you and your government sent the police with shields on them, those armors that I didn't know from whom they were defending the institution of culture. Now you want us to trust you to work and have that intention that you just spoke of. We don't trust you, Minister. This is 2016. For two years in the government, you've been strengthening financial institutions for two years, restoring infrastructure by setting watches. At first you fell down and then who was your fault, Director. You've replaced him. Did you punish yourself in any way? Where's your responsibility in all this? Fortunately the elections are coming, so the citizens will thank you for them and for you and for the whole government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49608	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49609	First of all, I thank you for speaking so accurately about the amendment, but I need to clarify one thing so it doesn't come to be a mistake, as it came about national pensions. Therefore, institutions of national importance are not abolished. Someone who listens to us might think at this point that we will end the National Theatre, end the National Museum, end the Belgrade Philharmonic, end the institutions. So I'm just asking you to be clear. It's just a declarative term that at one point seemed politically very profitable, we're going to give everyone now, the greater the number of institutions the name of national importance. I believe that at this point, it is a priority that these institutions are essentially strengthened and we are working on it as much as possible. What about the museum? You know what, I'd be luckiest if they were finished within the deadlines you said. We did break the deadline and I repeat again, so the director has been replaced, the entire tender committee has been removed, criminal charges have been filed, and criminal charges have been filed against the Republic Commission for the Protection of Offerer's Rights, but I think it's less damage than it's been done within that period that was possible that everyone has simply done their job, than that the money of the budget users has ended up in someone's private pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49610	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It's time for the replica and only notice for you, Mr. Minister, since we have a delayed transmission, so this moment will be about four o'clock in the morning. I think a few citizens will be able to misread this. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49611	There, just for those citizens at four o'clock in the morning, as you well say, who will inform themselves about the work of Parliament, to read what will be deleted if the government's proposal is adopted. The establishment of a culture of national importance is an institution that plays a national and representative role in the detection, creation, research, study, representation, dissemination and preservation of national cultural values. So in the Republic of Serbia there will be no institution of culture to do this job. She won't be worth it enough to bear that name and I'm talking about it. I'm not saying that it's going to end, that it's going to end, that I don't know, the National Library, the Museum, the National Theatre won't, here I can see that it's there, understanding that your desire to become financially strong is being organised by the concerts of Maria Sheriffovic. I mean, some other concerts can be organized, they'll be sold out every day. If the essence of financial reinforcement is that way, and that market that you like here and there to push through, then there's no limit. That's why we're afraid that by removing these barriers that they've restricted, you're paving your way to these other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49612	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Just a notice that the MP group has no more time. Mr. Minister, you have no right. You took advantage of the right and by the amendment, and I gave you the replica, so you have no right. Here's to estimating that you have the right to a replica. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49613	In a single word, I did not mention the word market, and when I talked about financial empowerment, I was thinking about exactly how much it is possible to make it out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, if and to strengthen the capacity of the institutions themselves, which will be seen among other things through this new way of choosing the director in ways that boards will work with the ability to make foundations, and of course non-balancing things through estradidation. So please don't use words that I haven't used at any time during the entire debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49614	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Here you go. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49615	Thank you. I just have to say, unfortunately, since you started the session, you didn't want to wait five minutes, then we missed one member of the law where you were very concerned with the market, Mr. Tasovac, because you introduced the Law on State Aid Control as regards the free market and the behaviour of economic operators in the Culture Act. It's a new one that you'll surely be remembered for after the adoption of this law. But to go back to Article 27, where we suggested a few suggestions. I would now stay for one moment, since he is the most interesting and the least understandable to me, given that in the explanation that you have given to our amendment you have not answered that part at all. So there's no explanation. It's about the next one. Library translation you do not want to list those associations that are considered artistic, representative artistic associations, and you actually want to put professional and scientific translation on that list. We then talked to representatives of the association who were trying, not believing that someone could not understand it, that the difference between literary, or artistic translation and scientific translation was enormous. I don't understand that you don't understand, that it's not the same to translate Anna Karen's cell phone manual. It is incomprehensible that you continue to refuse to put scientific and professional translation on the list of representative associations in culture, it is quite fine, not on the list of art associations. That, Mr. Tasovac, is not an art association. The entire cultural public is at least astounded that you continue to hold on to this proposal. Every public hearing and discussion has been pointed out. Our amendments came yesterday. Really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49616	Mrs. Marjanovic, without wanting to replicate, but for the sake of respect for the MPs, just to say one sentence, but I would ask without reaction. So, after the session I asked the cabinet several times to inform all parliamentary groups, and it was certainly done, that immediately after the amendment's conclusion and opinion, we continue the session. That announcement was according to all the parliamentary groups, that the moment we get an opinion and that point 1 is over, we continue the session. So, I'm sorry you understood it that way. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49617	I'm really sorry, but literary translation is just numbered as second. You said he wasn't on the art list... (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: I am talking about scientific and professionally. ) You said there was no literary translation on the list of representative art associations, and it stands first - literary creation, and the second is literary translation. As for the translation of professional and scientific texts, there are several reasons. One is because in the field of culture you are sufficient number of literature right now concerns the area of culture. So let's make a little difference between what culture is and what art is, but it's about what new technologies are, new ways of processing matter, new ways of presentation. That's part of the professional reason. There's another part, and that's just that those people who were destined for this law, and then, I think, at the last moment, someone's amendment was removed and they were actually left without any protection. So if we talk about professional reasons, they exist, and there is this second moment, and if you think that this law would be essentially improved by just translating professional and scientific texts out of the list, I really can't agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49618	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49619	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, of course, that we reject these amendments, given that this point 13 would be substantially changed, and on the subject of fine art and design, which they have proposed, I will speak a little later and therefore suggest that, in accordance with what the Government has written, this amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49620	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49621	Just for a little while. I really think of this as a cynical response. I don't think it's a fundamental remark, but I'm talking about an amendment. If we're talking about the essence, the essential solution to culture would be that you didn't even pass this law the way it is. Just to make sure that it stays in the record for the sake of the cultural public, that you consider it a professional translation of art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49622	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I certainly believe that a very good explanation for and this amendment, like the others, we are getting from the minister, was not too much of a need to intervene on our part. I certainly wouldn't have done it if it wasn't for some insistence on the non-quality of the law. So once again I confirm our common impression, the explanation that we have just received from the minister absolutely corresponds to the final score, to the last yota of what has been expressed as a certain objection by the promoter. So, there are no problems with the place, and I am further expanding the answer and by the fact that we really haven't discussed some remarks on the subject of market mention. And I add, it's too bad we didn't. If we did, we would be able to understand how terribly wrong they really are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49624	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49625	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since this is about applied visual art, I would like to say why this amendment should be rejected, I will document it. I don't know what kind of visual art this is. I don't know, this isn't art to me, but the man who was in the photo respected me in culture. So, I don't know if the person's a girl, the belly dancer, is she a minor, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49626	Mr. Risticevic, as chairman, we can't go from this distance right now to see what you're showing, but I'd like to ask you not to do this, to go back to the topic and talk about the amendment that's under discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49627	Mr. Chairman, if you have read the carefully Article 55a, it is about the applied visual art and the design of artistic photography. For me, I'm saying, this isn't much of an art. Why do I say that? Because during the reign of the party of the former regime and this is considered an art, when girls serve as servants. I don't know if it's that visual art they're talking about, but let's just say the girls get cold and then at the justice parties they use food on them as a tray. It's this visual and artistic photo that looks like this. I don't know what's not clear. For me, this isn't some visual art, and I don't know what the motion for an amendment is. So this happened before the summer of 2012. So if someone cools girls and calls this artistic content and defends this as artistic content, for me, maybe I'm too patriarchal, it's not some art, a team that's not cultural to me. This derogates the entire female race. So, if anyone serves...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49628	Mr. Risticevic, we are after 24 hours and I can't say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49629	I don't know why you're warning me, when this article 55a...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49630	... What you are doing now is not allowed, but I ask you to leave your arguments for another time to refuse these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49631	Mr. Chairman, I suggest that the amendment be rejected, but I have also shown the role of the party of the former regime and the way they see artistic, visual art, etc. I am a bit of a modern man, but I can't figure this out, a team before this man in the photo respected me about culture. Obviously, I know more about culture than he does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49632	Thank you. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, master of Dr Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49633	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 27, and we have proposed to be in Article 55a. After point 12), add a new point 12a) which reads as follows: “the theory, history and criticism of applied and fine arts and designs” and to delete point 13) because it should belong to one other piece which Marjanović explained in more detail, and we are completely in agreement with this because translation of professional and scientific texts cannot be undermined on the list of representative art associations in culture. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, since we had a chance to see, so a new form that perhaps you, Minister, should have put here, which is primitiveism. Perhaps you could find a place for those forms of culture, not to let us interfere. We are perfectly stoic to explain our amendments in the right way. If the minister thinks translation of professional and scientific texts is an artistic action, we do not. You have had the opportunity to plead in your earlier argument, but you should also express yourself on our amendment that we have provided for in Article 55a. Point 12a) means that “the theory, history and criticism of applied art and design” treats it as, meaning, belonging to this art association, to a representative art association in culture because it provides creativity and the possibility of artistic expression because you will allow both literary and artistic criticism, visual criticism represents the integrity of an expert who knows this matter and such an act that is created is original and personal for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49634	Time. I'm sorry, Mr. Marinkovic, I didn't understand what you said. The only thing I find very ugly and inadmissible is that one MP finds himself in such a photograph. Thank you. The word has a minister. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the post: I can repeat what I said to make you understand. I hope the minister understands, he will answer you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49635	I have to admit, I didn't understand the suggestion to put on the art list primitiveness. I'm really trying to hold on to some order in this debate. I really don't think it's correct to use that kind of argument because I don't think I've offended you at all, so I don't think it's right, simply, to ask the Ministry of Culture to answer you that way, and just to prove it to you, means that I really mean it, I missed it a moment ago, to apologize to Parliamentarian Marjanovic, who rightly warned me because I said I've seen things, but I'm going to have to comment on the issue of national institutions. Yes, of course every MP has the right to ask this question and, of course, that my obligation, as minister, is to answer every question, but, you know, it's past midnight for me, like all of you, and I've been at the head of an institution of culture for too long, I know too well the problems, so for a moment I just may have gone too far, so take my apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49636	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have intervened with the amendment to Article 28 which amends Article 56. This is where we predicted that a new point 3 would be added after Article 2. Otherwise, Article 56 speaks of representative associations in culture. Our position, which we add to this article, reads: "In order to finance the implementation of the basic activities of representative associations, as well as trusted businesses that are of general interest to the culture of the Republic of Serbia, funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the annual programmes of activities provided to the Ministry of Culture. “ On the Committee on Culture, I had controversy with the representatives of your ministry. Me and my parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, continue to think that for the financing of the activities of representative associations in culture, especially those dealing with the general interest in culture, there should be seats in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'd like to add something else. Good thing it's past midnight, Mr. Minister, maybe the Prime Minister will see some of this, so tomorrow you can change your mind, too, and also the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49638	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Stojkovic, Mirjana Andric, Aleksandar Jugovic and Nebojsa Tatomir. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49639	Mr. Chairman, I think you've said Article 35 twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49640	I'm sorry, Article 36.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49641	On the 36th and I want to talk. Nothing, just let me check. Thank you. This is one, in my opinion, very controversial provision of the law, again I stress, the need for Mr. Minister not only to manage in cultural institutions, but also in associations that are independent, where citizens are freely joined in order to achieve some professional interests, actions and whose work and activities are governed by the Law on Associations of Citizens. This is where the minister wants them to submit an annual work programme to him and that he gives consent. He has no right to do so under any law, not under the Constitution, given that the ministry did not establish an association. So, I really think that this member is very controversial and that, if adopted, he will be subject to complaints and reactions from other authorities and that it is intruding into the autonomy of free associations of citizens. It is, I repeat, a very problematic provision of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49642	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49643	Let me just explain one more time, it's about associations that have entrusted jobs. I think it's perfectly normal for us to have insight into their work-related agenda, as well as their reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49644	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49645	A report relating only to a part of the trusted business should not be disputed, but the law does not stand that way. The law states that the minister will give consent to the annual work programme. Well, he can't give consent to the annual work programme, consent is given by the board of directors of the association, the bodies that choose these associations. Therefore, there is no argument given to us by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49646	Thank you, dear colleague Marjanović. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted the amendment together. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, mg Dr Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, Mrs. Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49647	The amendment concerns one of the most painful issues today, when it comes to independent artists in the Republic of Serbia, which is their social status and social security. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate, and that's not enough to talk about. A large number of our artists have no certified health books, can't be treated, among other things because they're late with the payment of contributions, and then the tax administration haunts them, because they're taxpayers in the eyes of the law. We held several meetings here and a session on the Committee on Culture, talked to the Tax Administration, made requests and requests to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to write off unwarranted interest and to find a solution to their status. This provision in the Law, not only does it not solve this problem, but it further makes it difficult to solve the difficult social situation of independent artists. The independent artist of this provision remains the only taxpayer for which they will continue to have serious problems with the tax administration for reasons they did not blame. This provision of the ministry instead of trying to regulate, although it cannot be solved in the whole of the problem by this law, it is true, but it is not known to the public that the ministry has made a small move to propose an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Social and Health Insurance and to find a solution in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in agreement with the tax administration to allow these people to exercise their fundamental existential rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49648	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanović. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49649	As you know, the largest number of independent artists is, just registered here in Belgrade and not only are we in constant contact with associations, but also with the city administration and we are trying to find those solutions that are most applicable at the moment and which are at this point the most comprehensive, but I would just draw attention to the fact that the debts that have arisen and the interest that have arisen have arisen much earlier and they are simply passing from year to year. In any case, by information, if you had meetings, I have no reason to doubt that you had meetings with associations, as you have no reason to doubt that the Ministry had such meetings, it was certainly the representatives of the association that informed you that the city of Belgrade was meeting its obligations at the moment, but that it was the interest of the period, I don't want to call, indeed all previous authorities, but from the previous periods on the one hand, and they certainly informed you that the Ministry of Culture and Information was meeting all its legal obligations in the best possible way including that we were going to pay quarterlyly, at the beginning of the quarter, unlike any previous ministries that had done so before. The natural thing is that I could stick to this position and say this is the obligation of the Ministry of Culture and Information, but we are just trying to work with everyone simply to help solve even when the key to this problem is not in our hands, but is also in the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49650	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49651	Of course I don't doubt that you've even had meetings I've even been informed of, because associations always go to the minister first, naturally, because the minister of the executive and the artists expect it to be the first place to turn, because they know it's the minister's job to solve such specific issues. And then when they don't come to the answer, they come to the congregation. Yes, they were informed that they were at your meetings and that you told them you weren't in charge of it. I hope so, and now I hear from you and that's really good news, that things have moved for the better, but they haven't been solved systemically yet. I invite you to pay attention to that. Start the initiative. Help your fellow artists to see a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49652	Replica, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49653	So I think it's time you made a deal with yourself and in some way to be consistent. On the one hand, you're sending criticism that we're making too much centralization of the Ministry of Culture and that the minister is taking over powers that shouldn't be there, and on the other hand, you're telling me now that I need to take over more powers that we haven't put here. I just don't think that's right. So, on the one hand, you're saying that we're making commitments to ourselves that aren't ours, and on the other hand, you're looking for it now, so we can't have this debate, really. It is known at the very end of the line what they are, and the Ministry of Culture is absolutely there to give maximum support to every independent artist and to enter even those, as I say, areas that are not in our direct jurisdiction, because we recognize simply our responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49654	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49655	I don't think we understand each other. So, I've criticised that you're getting in the way of what is not your jurisdiction, and what is expected of it is kind of being built on. So that's a very important difference. Of course, I don't expect the Minister of Culture to answer as a bureaucrat on a counter that looks at the regulation and says this is my jurisdiction this is not my jurisdiction. You are now a politician, you have the right to attend government meetings to raise questions from other resolutions when it comes to the position of artists you are directly responsible for caring for. Like I said, I commended Mr. Udovic today who showed a great desire to take care of athletes, to keep their prizes and protect them. That's what they expect from you, I suppose.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49656	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have no right, you have used your right to both a replica and an amendment, so you have no right. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49657	This entire section, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, members 37, 38 and 39 refer to part of the law, the applicable Culture Act, which speaks of the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and contributions to health insurance. The essence of all these changes is that the Government is erasing the obligation of the Republic to participate in the costs, it's very clear here. So, wherever the budget of the Republic of Serbia is mentioned, it is deleted, and now it is left for independent artists who perform, have, perform their own artistic work in the field of culture, that the obligation is left to the AP budget, or to the budget of the units of local self-government. It's a very simple way, Minister, to tell you when someone comes to you tomorrow for a problem that may not have been made by you but by some previous government, as you like to say to your colleagues. I don't know which one, since there's this government, let's say it lasts almost four years, or one majority. You may be there two, but the previous two were also someone, and some others were who supported this government, but that's not the point right now. The theme is that you are simply creating an alibi for another two months of happiness, when someone comes to you as a culture minister and they say – we have a problem; and you say – sorry, I no longer have anything to do with it, there is no more budget of the Republic of Serbia anywhere. In law when problems are related to payments for disability and pension insurance and health insurance, go to the AP and local self-government. It is, I understand, from your point of view, great, but it will not solve the problem of people who have these problems today, only then will probably stop coming to you, but it will come here to the Assembly or somewhere else, trying to solve this problem and you in this way, I have to admit only follow the government's policy, which is to switch problems to someone else, only that we're not responsible. Now more if this is adopted like this, you are no longer responsible, but autonomous provinces, or local self-government, there people will try to exercise their rights. Somewhere it might work, somewhere it won't, but you didn't offer these amendments and additions to the law that you're now talking about, that there's a debt, that there are unresolved problems. You didn't offer this solution, you just transferred it to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49658	Thank you, dear colleague. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49659	We have just initiated talks with associations and we have approached solving this problem together with our partners, let's say, specifically from Belgrade, because again I say there are the largest number of users. However, the law is not passed as a list of good wishes, and then you can't apply half of those, but the law represents some kind of reality. Secondly, I really thank you for saying not only that I will forget the word "only" that the Ministry of Culture is following the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the Ministry of Culture and is part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that is exactly what I consider your compliment and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49660	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49661	It's a good thing you're saying that you see a compliment. I wanted you to unequivocally confirm that you are following the policy of this government, one disastrous, bad government, which leads Serbia to ruin and which, fortunately, will, in the next two, three months, end your mandate together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49662	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49663	Now we have seen that the decline in unemployment rates from the catastrophic 26%, how much our former regime, which also belonged from 26% to 17%, is for the previous speaker a disaster, that progressing to the dual business list for 32 places is also a disaster. I see that for the previous speaker, disaster and the opening of the first negotiating chapters with the EU is also a disaster. For the former regime, every advance and every reform of our society is a disaster. It is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see it. It is good to have the opportunity to assess in a few months what a disaster it is when the former regime, when the president of the state, Mr. Tadic, promises 200,000 new jobs, so there are 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, so let them evaluate, and I am sure that when people in Serbia remember that time until 2012, how they lived, how they lost their jobs, what kind of robbery privatisations were and in the state where we are now, the state of public finances, the state of the deficit, the state of public finances themselves, I think they will have made a good commitment and some court will show themselves in fair and democratic elections. I'm sure all those who are now so bravely calling the elections, they're actually trying some censorship coalitions just to see this hall again. I'm afraid they'll only see it when they're walking around Nikola Pasic's square.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49664	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Marko Djurisic, a two-minute replica, mentioning the party's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49665	Thank you, Chairman. The government is disastrous because wages in Serbia are at least in the region today. The government is disastrous because the conditions of business in Serbia are the worst in the region. The government is disastrous because today 15% of the population lives on the edge of poverty, 150,000 people more than four years ago. The government is disastrous because it closes at a time of the greatest crisis of the increased poverty of folk cuisine, and then it finds some bad arguments and tries to justify itself. The government is disastrous because we have bad political relations in the region. The government is disastrous because it took four years to open two chapters in negotiations with the EU, which is the worst start ever and one country that has opened negotiations and started the EU accession process. Because of all this, I am pleased that the minister boasts that he is part of such a government and such a policy and that this law is such and will not bring any better things to people who live than culture and work in culture. I say, I'm glad the minister confirmed it, which is proud of what follows this government's policy and I'm proud to have those elections in two months and I'm sure the citizens will know they're saying no to one of these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49666	Mr. Babico, you have the right to a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas. Mr. Djurishic, because you caused the replica, and we have to end this replication. Here you go, and then you have the right to the replica, Mr. Minister. Please, MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49667	Everything the previous speaker said is absolutely correct if it refers to the government of DS and Mirko Cvetkovic and the government in 2008 to 2012. Absolutely from word to word, everything he said about the disastrous effects of the government, I fully agree, absolutely and an increase in poverty and reduction, i.e. an increase in the number of unemployed and orderly in front of public kitchens in Serbia, absolutely everything he said, is absolutely correct and I am sure he meant the government of DS and Mirka Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49668	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister, a two-minute replica. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49669	I totally understand that you're working out for a political campaign right now, but I would still go back to the members of the law from 37 to 39. And again because of the full public, and I don't mind, I support you in practicing, but I would go back to these members of the law and just figure out one more thing – and so far it was the obligations of local self-government. In fact, this law is, among other things, important because it verifies what the situation is right now. So, let's stop fooling ourselves more. Now we're making the best possible solutions, but the ones that are real, not the ones that are the object of desire, like when you put the law that 1.5% goes to the film industry, and then it falls to the Constitutional Court. Or when it's put to question the competitions in October of the month, and you don't know what you're calling for, because the budget law is passed in December of the month. But again, I'm saying I'm not going back to criticizing the previous law, because I'm sure when this government, or the same prime minister for the new government, when it comes to new law enforcement, we'll have something to improve in this current law. It is a step forward compared to the previous one, but surely it is not the end of the repair of the Law on Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49670	Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49671	By reading this article's proposal, we felt that he was not clear and precise enough, because behind him, there was no ultimate coincidence of such a proposal. In fact, we have all agreed together, as well as other parties and other MPs, that this problem is certainly great and that the state must react to it in some way. It is quite clear to us that, from the point of view of the realisation of the budget, not all imposes can be put directly on the republican level, but we see lately that more and more, more and more, a series of commitments, is being transferred to the local, and the place remains powerless. From his delay, from his unrealization of obligations in any previous period, it is precisely these situations that people do not have social and health insurance, they cannot go to a doctor alone, nor can they treat their children. We just have to react to it. At some point, the boomerang, much harder and bigger, will return to us than we can expect. We've considered and suggested a solution like this, it doesn't have to be like this, but we're suggesting that, in any case, we need to move towards a solution to this situation as quickly as possible. Only the illustrations do, I will, and therefore the last sentence applies to us here that the obligation must be considered by the Ministry of Finance, that some government, or some ministry, seven or eight years ago, simply did not carry out the law on the regulation of military pensions, that this debt lasted very long and that since then there was no way and solution to resolve this issue. In social security, since I was personally able to, at the request of fighters and military people with disabilities, try to find a solution, then we received a decision from the PIO Fund that these were different responsibilities of the then existing institutions and that it was not responsible for it. Regardless of the condition, the moment she saw the serious consequence, she had to approach the solution. The solution was found, to the satisfaction of a large number of military pensioners. I don't think we should close our eyes just before this situation. The suggestion is that if these amendments are not adopted at this time, in any case, this solving of the problem at the most recent time, in some ways, we need to find a way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49672	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49673	Whether or not the citizens will be watching this, I think it is important to say that the government has proposed that contributions to pension and disability insurance and contributions to health insurance from Article 70, for which funds are provided and then said "in the Republic of Serbia's budget" be deleted and left alone – the budget of the autonomous province, i.e. the budget of units of local self-government. I repeat, after this, if this solution is adopted, the minister will no longer be an address. He thus removed the burden of ending the problem from his back, transferring it to local self-government, or autonomous province. We can talk about whether it has proved realistic or unrealistic in practice, whether and now the solution is that the largest number of these payments are made out of the budget of local self-government, and then they are late or not. But in this way, Minister, you have not offered a solution that the state, so the central level of government, will help. As you suggested to change these three members, you just washed your hands and removed your responsibility and did not offer a solution. We are speaking precisely against this solution which will now leave only to the budget, or the authorities of the autonomous province or local self-government to solve this problem, and those, we can agree on, have not solved this problem in the best way so far. I repeat, there is this poor policy of transferring responsibility to someone else, where you can say – so it wasn't in practice, it didn't come to life, a bad solution. What do you offer to have nothing more to do with it? That's your solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49674	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49675	I would really ask you not to deceive the public, because, you said, simply, that was the obligation of local self-government so far. The fact that you've passed laws where you take something like a commitment that you don't follow in any way, is demagogy, and that makes this law different, among other things, from that of 1990. I really don't think it's correct to say this way that we, this government, are using really, in my opinion, washed her hands, took her responsibility off. You know what, indeed, you can transfer anything to this government, except for the absence of responsibility. So, I would really like to ask you to make one more point – and so far, local self-government has done so. And why did you put in the previous law – from the Serbian budget, and never specify what this applies to? That's really the answer you're supposed to give the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49676	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think members of the former regime have to worry about this, because I believe that funds in the budgets of local self-government and AP Vojvodina will not be decided by them. I believe, if any harm has been done, that the ruling majority has done itself, because it is doubtless that after the election, the government of the Vojvodina government will not rule the Vojvodina, and to God, I believe, not even local self-governments, not because I only believe it, but believe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the citizens of the EU and local self-government, especially from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I think there's enough resources in the AP Vojvodina budget. I think there's enough resources in the budgets of local self-government, and I especially believe that it's worth more funding of culture from the AP Vojvodina budget than, say, firms that are involved in the production of funeral equipment. So, if there is in the budget, and so far in the Duke's possession, so were the couples that are given to the funeral equipment company, which the funds are to be returned to the Vojvodina province institutions and organisations in their products. If there is money for this kind of work in the AP Vojvodina budget, I believe it is more useful for the future government to do so in a better way and instead of funding funeral equipment producers to finance culture, not to finance public cuisine. Who brought us to the soup kitchen? It's about trying to make work, bread and culture for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49678	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49679	Minister, you have so far had, or existed in the law, in article 69, said the funds were provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the payment of contributions to PIO. Why hasn't this been achieved properly so far, and why haven't you found a solution? That's what I'm asking you, or I can ask you, because you are now proposing to delete the budget of the Republic of Serbia as places where these funds are provided. Of course, you will no longer deal with it, or your successor. I'm sure you won't be doing it any more when the term of office of this government is over. So that's what I'm talking about. You're talking now -- we had a bad experience, it was legal, we didn't do it, and now we're erasing it. What's your contribution to that? What is your contribution, except to erase or transfer responsibility to someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49680	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49681	I once again urge you not to deceive the public. Because it is intended that only the Republic budget will be paid for the outstanding contribution to culture. If you want to continue on the subject, my question is, why is that reward actually brought only once? I think Philip Cepter got it. No, I misnamed the name of the prize, so it wouldn't be after the confusion. So it's very clear what the obligations are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49682	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. I think the minister gave the information, it didn't apply to you, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49683	I don't know what part of the law the minister's talking about, because he's not talking about what we're talking about right now. We're talking about contributions payments to PIO and health care. We're not talking about any prizes. We are talking about the fact that so far in law, the Republic of Serbia's budget has been mentioned as the place where these funds are being provided. Was this law, which was the first law in the field of culture, adopted in 2011, the best way to solve it? We can agree it's not. We can agree that it isn't, but I'm criticizing the solution you're proposing. The solution is that more the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to do with it, and you transfer it to someone else. I'm criticizing it. I don't know what kind of reward you were talking about. I know you're tired, like all of us, I'm asking you to focus on what the subject of the amendment is we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49684	Thank you. National MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. By what amendment, Mr. Risticevic? (Marian Rističevic, from town: On Article 39.) Mr. Shutanovec's amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must prove that members of the same electoral list are proposing two different amendments to Article 39. It's technically impossible again. Some suggest that we delete the whole member, and others suggest that this member be changed. So it's either one or the other or there's been a disintegration, and it's hard to make two out of one hair. I trust the minister that they awarded Mr. Cemon's award. I don't know if it was called a "golden sherpa", but I believe that after the election some will get classical from the peoples and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49686	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Stojkovic, Mirjana Andric, Aleksandar Jugovic and Nebojsa Tatomir. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mr. Minister, do you want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49687	I only made a lapus just now, because Cepter received a prize for outstanding contributions under Article 13, and the Republic budget was designed to fund prominent artists, an institute that never lived, just to clarify that thing. Once again, I'm sorry about my lapus earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49688	Thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted the 40th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted the 42nd amendment. Article 42 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Minister, I ask you to make a statement on the Committee's submission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49689	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49690	I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Dear People's MPs, I believe it is my obligation to announce, on behalf of the esteemed counterpart Pavicevic, who is not present, that by accepting this last amendment to this law, they have 9.9% support, as they say. Thank you. The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49691	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 42, which amends Article 76, where, after the 12th position, positions 13 to 16 are added, and they read: "At least once in five years, the Ministry is calling for a public competition to collect a proposal for funding or co-financing projects of general interest in culture. The selection of projects under the public competition is decided by the commission educated by the competition authority. The selected project applicants shall conclude contracts on their financing, i.e. five-year co-financing. The minister is closer to regulating the way, criteria and criteria for selecting projects of general interest in culture that are financed and co-financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We believe that the introduction of a project institution of general interest in culture provides continuous work and strategic development of festivals, events and other projects whose credibility is confirmed by the long-term existence of quality of artistic and cultural programmes, as well as the proposed five-year plan with which they compete. We believe that this is one, to say the right way, a real approach and a real contribution to the preservation of those traditions that existed and existed before us and will exist and after us, that the Ministry of Culture has, however, to say some kind of moral obligation to cultivate such manifestations, and we believe that this is the right way and it is in line with the development of both our society and the financial solution that can in the right way injure quality resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49692	Thank you, Dr. Marinkovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49693	That sounds good. The only problem is that there is a problem with the budget and that is budgeted every year. How can you make commitments, it's the same thing as calling the competition I mentioned? So, I ask you to stick to what is real and to realize that the Law on Culture is not an art in itself, but it simply has to be part of the legal system, and we are doing our utmost to make within it as widely as possible for the development of a complete system of culture as well as for the institutions of culture and the civil sector of different institutions. So this is exactly what I'm saying. So this is a law that's been made on real grounds and this is a law that we can further build on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49694	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic. Thank you. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Thank you. Members of the 44th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49695	Well, Article 44, as suggested by the ministry, was supposed to mark the end of national pensions that could be granted under the Culture Act, and it speaks of those pensions that were subject to the new law that those beneficiaries retain that right. Finally, fortunately, I don't know what luck it is, given the circumstances, we have come to the conclusion that this member is practically not essential, because the prime minister has asked the ruling majority MPs to keep the solution, however, that an exceptional recognition can be granted in the form of a lifelong monthly income. We were suggested to delete this member, as we had been suggested to delete and Article 7 of the Law. The fact that the Government does not accept the expropriation of our member, and we can agree, because in the meantime by submitting the amendment of the Committee to the members of the 7th and 44th of this law, it is practically the intention of the legislator, the minister, first of all, to abolish the national pensions and the government itself, which has sent such a law to us to the Assembly, seems to me in August of last year. However, in the end, as in one good piece of art, literature or film, in the last seconds of the film or on the last pages of the book, it was given a positive set-up or hepiend, as it is said. I hope this expression could be understood by all my colleagues. We will get that the largest artists in Serbia will also be possible in the future, the code will obtain pension conditions for a lifetime of monetary income. On the other hand, it may be the only happy environment that has followed the debate on the adoption of amendments and additions to the Culture Act. Unfortunately, other solutions that didn't get such a good epilogue, because I believe that the prime minister, since it obviously depends on him, because that towards the minister, this would not happen, will probably not be prevented when we vote, will be adopted by and in practice show negative consequences. Fortunately, we are going to have elections, things will change very quickly in Serbia, so I believe that the negative consequences of these changes to the Culture Act will be very soon resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49696	Thank you. I also thank you for thanking the Prime Minister for his contribution to the adoption of this law, in fact, this member. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49697	Thank you. This is because this is the last member of this law, which refers to national recognitions, as my colleague Djurisic said, who somehow became a light motif of this debate on amendments and amendments to the Law on Culture and where, primarily thanks to the media, the prime minister of culture realized in time that we should intervene and at least one institute of this law we saved. What I want to say to you and be assured that I am saying this from experience and conversations with cultural public and artists, that the cultural public will be bitter on the other hand, grateful that this institute remains, but bitter that the whole law is so important that it applies to their work, operation and life only to national recognitions. I think this debate will also be remembered for having a nine-hour debate on the board of directors today, in my opinion, one of the best discussions we have had in the Serbian Parliament, at least since I was an MP without Minister Tasovac present. I want to thank his associates who have sat patiently with us and worked with us today, actually his job. I also want to say this, I wanted to show this morning as an opposition MP and as someone who cared about keeping national recognitions in law, to accept a joint amendment proposed by colleagues from the SNS. Although, to be clear, there were amendments to the opposition that could be accepted and the result would be exactly the same. I thought I knew her well-willed to vote on one of those things together. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there was no slightest desire to respect any single argument that we had put up with for nine hours, there would be a stenogram in the history of this assembly, to see how many bad solutions were left in the law that we could correct. I'm very sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49698	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49699	Mr. Chairman, culture is to tell someone in the face what you think, whether it's good or bad. It is unculture as we discuss here the Law on Culture on Social Networks to throw out and write a tweet, which reads – in front of the SNS Proposal for a Law on Culture of the Dam Marijan Rističević and Zoran Babić, so much. Signer Vesna Marjanović, that's it. So much for culture. Why didn't she go out, and she had a chance here to say why someone personally doesn't have the right to talk about culture, about the Law of Culture? Why are there first and second order MPs here for these cultures? Why do these cultural ones give themselves the right to remove us from any area? Which is why these cultural ones don't turn around, so fellow Sutanovac, who unfortunately isn't here, and I'm embarrassed to talk about someone who isn't here, but we've seen him go through social networks so bravely and culturally attacking the MPs, attacking the president of the National Assembly in the most vulgar way possible. Is that a culture? Is the culture of these cultural ones when a belly dancer is wheezing, and whoever showed that picture is rude? Not the whale, and the whaled by Dragan Sutanovac, but the uncultured one who showed the painting. Is the cultural vice president of the Democratic Party, Mr Jesic, who answered a normal journalist's question the way I don't want to talk? Did the cultural Mr. Todorovic, one of the prominent DS officials, who today so bravely invited the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Austria and said – well, boys, take a room? Now, these are the cultural ones that have the exclusive right to culture, and they're the only ones who can talk about culture. You know, we all came from some hill. We all got off some branch for them and we have no right to talk about anything, but that right doesn't give us DS. The right to speak gives us citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By insulting Mr. Risticevic, me, Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Becic, any of us here, you are actually insulting those people who sent us here. Where did you get that right, you cultural ones? Where did you get the cultural right to cheat and say that someone wanted to cancel your national pensions? Well, look at the amendment you suggested. Read, distinguished colleagues, amendment to Article 44, which they have proposed, deleting Article 44, erasing Article 2 of Article 44, which reads – all persons who have acquired the right to receive recognition for the ultimate contribution to national culture, i.e. the culture of national minorities, in the form of a lifelong monthly income, until the beginning of the application of this law, retain this right. You want to erase the detention of that right? Is that the amendment? Now your problem is that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the SNS are communicating with the MPs of his SNS. This is not the time when the president was communicated through the chief of staff. This is not the time when the MPs of the former regime could only walk past the building where their president sat. Why is that strange to you? Why is the culture of dialogue so cultural to you? Why do you have all the politics of hate left, only insult? And that's exactly what you represent as a culture, and that's how you put the deed on culture and on people in culture. We're talking about the Culture Act here. We're a long way from culture. There are those people who have left their lives, their careers, and today they are building careers as cultural workers. And now it's someone who came from not knowing which dams, and I as a graduate engineer have to stand still in front of Ivan Tasovac's name and in front of everything he's done in culture. I'm sure we all get together here and we all add up everything we've done in culture, we won't be able to have that weight like Mr. Tasovac did in the Philharmonics without talking about his family and what they are and what they've left behind. Then those who have introduced us a culture of insults, a culture of humiliation, a culture of hate, will tell us here about culture and take for themselves the exclusive right to speak and to have a deed to culture. No, you don't. As long as you force, as long as you exercise such political hatred, such an insult, which, I believe, sometimes makes the citizens of the Republic of Serbia disgust when they listen to the transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have no right to do so. As long as you don't want to negotiate, as long as you don't want to communicate, as long as you're sharing MPs in the first and second order, you don't deserve that right. And you're free to show your muscles. I've never shown them, in terms of political muscles, of course. I never spoke – you will see after the next election. Serbian citizens will decide, Serbian citizens will say. On behalf of the SNS, that's all I can say is that we will always respect that decision. The decision and the opinion of the citizens of Serbia are sacred to us. We're not super glued to these chairs, nor MPs, nor ministers, nor anyone else. We're not born in them, we're not going to end up in them either, and to you whose fate is the function, people are both in 2012 and 2014, and I believe this year 2016 will tell them what they think and how they think. But leave that muscle pumping and change that policy better – we hate the Wolf. Change it for the policy of dialogue, for the solutions offered, for that "heppy end" that I think all citizens expect from us. By then at least show that basic culture, that what you think of someone you say in your face. I've been here from the beginning to the end. You had a chance to tell me whatever you wanted, and Mr. Risticevic, and Mr. Becic, and Mr. Tasovac, and Mrs. Dusici Stojkovic. Why do you need social networks so cultural? Why don't you show it here? Now I can look everyone in the face and say the name and challenge the replica. Say it here. Why are you brave in some virtual world? Why is the only answer insulting you? Why poison us to spill more? Why aren't we making a deal? Why is there no such thing as elemental goodwill? This law may not be the best and most ideal, but it is a step in the field of culture. This law and such a reaction by Prime Minister Vucic has contributed to the fact that, regardless of the mistakes of the past, regardless of some of these dark roads, that some individuals have come to national pensions and national recognitions, we will not, because of several anomalies, leave some people who will leave a mark in Serbian culture in the future without such compensation. That's what the prime minister's job is. It is the work of the Members of the People. That's the minister's job. And how people in Serbia will decide, however we choose, that decision will be sacred to us, because we primarily respect those people we represent in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49700	Thank you. I would once again ask the MPs to abandon these practices to insult each other as MPs on social networks, because under the Constitution, it is the right and obligation to represent the builders who chose them and to propose amendments and laws and vote in favour of the proposals of acts, so that no one can deny them that right. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49701	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like first to thank those who tried to insult me. It's not the first time they've respected my right to speak of amendments of any kind, and they particularly object to my obligation and constitutional right to propose, interpret acts, amendments, corrections, everything the National Assembly here has to decide and consider. The quality of this amendment and other amendments is best reflected in the presence of those who have submitted the amendments. They don't believe what they wrote themselves. See how many of their colleagues are present, wanting to support such quality amendments, as they consider to be submitted. It's not the first time I've been challenged as a farmer that I have no right to talk about culture. This famous festival, which is constantly in their mind, with circumstances, growing in the country, does not grow in the pasture. There's buildings growing in the pasture. Then those who grow pasture buildings honor me for not having the right to practice culture. I didn't make this up. It's the man who challenged my right to talk about culture, and in this, you can see that I should consider whether this is cultural or not, for me it's not. For me, it's not cultural or cohiba, while the poor girl plays half-naked or almost naked. It's not cultural for me to have someone get a gold sherpa, or what's called that confession, Philip Cepter. It's not polite for me for someone to cool off girls and serve food on them, to be an acer, a tray, or what's called. They wrote it as a cultural event, not me. It's for the judiciary, it's for miracles, it's for the Justice Party, it's for their time. Today they are talking about how the Minister of Culture was not at the Committee's session. With them, the culture minister and other ministers did not come to the government. Do you remember they ran text messages? It was the SMS government, which when it was due to be in debt, they posted a message – are you in charge of borrowing 500, 600, 700 million euros, to raise inflation to 10%, artificially raise pensions, inflation eats it, etc.? That's how they ruled. It wasn't even cultural to rule. They're talking about the prime minister. They once accuse him of having to order us to vote on the issue of Minister Gasic, and the second time they challenge him to appeal to us to consider a vote on his proposal, an attempt to offend us. I'm done. Not everyone can insult us, they can try. Not everyone, Mr. Granny, is worthy of our attention. A wise man is hard to insult and humiliate. You can only humiliate me if I allow it, and I certainly won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49702	Thank you. Article 44 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49703	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-11-0.u49704	I find that the minister has accepted the amendment of the Committee and that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Once again, we thank the prime minister for his contribution to the adoption of these members of the law. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mandatory Example of Publicization. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received the Report of the Committee on Culture and Information and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 4th amendment. Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear People's MPs, I want to thank you, too, after the initial misunderstanding, we had one constructive and democratic debate and I thank you again for that. Resume session today at 12.00 hours.
