ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8291	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8292	I ask the first question to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the Ministry of Culture and Information. The question is: why did REM not draft a report on the pre-election election campaign held on 24 April this year? In fact, this question has been asked several times both on the Committee on Culture and Information, and here in the debate when we discussed the selection of new REM members, and NUNS also asked for an insight into the report and received a very short answer, following the orders of the Public Information Commissioner that there is simply no such report. This is a dangerous precedent, given the fact that since this obligation was established and since this control body has been established to oversee the work of broadcasters in pre-election campaigns, therefore, since this obligation was established by the 2003 Law, every time we have had a report on all the elections that have been held so far, both local and presidential, and parliamentary. So the question is, why is there no report? Here, the presidential elections are now approaching, and it may also be parliamentary. Does this mean that the next campaign will take place without supervision, without the control of the broadcaster's work? Is this really a fair campaign? Not to mention that it's a violation of the law. The second question is asked by the Minister of Finance, the Ministers of Local Self-Government and the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Namely, due to the problem of water supplying the town of Užica, which was caused by cyano bacteria, an emergency was introduced in December 2013, in early January 2014. After that, due to further problems, the occurrence of non-method and algae in drinking water, an emergency was reintroduced in July 2014, and it continues to this day. The emergency situation is used as an excuse to suspend the Public Procurement Act. The present and former mayor of this justice, i.e. Introducing an emergency situation, it takes as an excuse not to apply the Public Procurement Act, and for three years it has actually been carried out by law. The LDP committee's question in the Uzica City Assembly has repeatedly been raised, the mayor has given various explanations and explanations as to why the emergency situation is still not over. At first, he argued that it was necessary to select directly the designer and contractors. Meanwhile, a designer and contractors have long been selected, even started building a water factory, and the emergency situation remains in effect. The mayor even last time, on the matter referred to by when the emergency situation would last and why it did not lift it, which is why he did not remove it, believe it or not, said there were no more reasons, but that the emergency situation could not be lifted so as not to control it. Believe it or not, that's the mayor's explanation. So, please mention state authorities, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Self-Government, as well as the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, to review and call for the responsibility of the mayor who conducts public procurement without respecting the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8293	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8294	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs this way. Please answer me, did you and what were you planning as a measure of improving inspection supervision when we were talking about social protection facilities? I have been informed that a total of 91 prohibitions have been issued for the previous 11 years of social protection inspection, and 49 homes for older people are now banned during 2014, 2015 and 2016. Only when we compare the statistics on the number of inspection controls can we say that the number of inspection controls has increased significantly, almost doubled, in the previous two and a half years. But this information, in addition to telling us that the Labour Inspectorate is effective, tells us that a very large number of illegal objects have been found when we talk about homes for the elderly. Therefore, we need to introduce additional measures to improve the quality of services when talking about homes for the elderly, to increase the safety of users of these homes and, most importantly, to care for illegal facilities, or illegal homes for the elderly. Well, please answer me, is there a plan to increase the number of social security inspectors? It is also a fact that when we speak to the Inspectorate for work, he has limited capacities and only 242 inspectors monitor over 330,000 businesses. When we look at certain figures in the previous period, if we take e.g. In 2016, inspections were carried out on these facilities and 16,370 persons were found working on black, 14088 of whom were founded by a working relationship, which tells us that it is about 86%. This says that the Labour Inspectorate is very effective, but we cannot forget the fact that only one inspector is in charge of 1400 businesses, which is a very limited capacity, which in the coming period may slow down an additional increase in efficiency. I'm also wondering if an increase in the number of inspectors has been planned, when we're talking about the labour inspectorate. My second question is to the Department of Administration and local self-government. Please answer me – what are the expected effects and savings when we talk about the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. the Good Administration project, which provides for the exchange of official records data. The envisaged exchange of data obliges officials to exchange data with each other, such as citizenship assurances, such as derived from the books of origin, etc., making this project "Good Administration" a real service for citizens, because it saves both time and money, and further increases the efficiency of the administration due to the reduction of bureaucracy. Even in the 1976 General Administrative Procedure Act, this was envisaged, however, no fines have been provided for non-executive officers, which is why the procedure has not been implemented. Under the new law, fines are foreseen, and citizens are also exempt from paying taxis. For this reason, I am interested – what are the projected savings and what are the expected effects, when we talk about this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8295	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8296	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my question to the Ministry of Energy, namely Minister Antic and Prime Minister Vukic. The cost of lighting Belgrade for the New Year's Eve will cost about 30m dinars for 90 days, with an additional 120m identified from the rebalancing, according to Mayor Mali. It's already decorated 51 locations. Novi Sad will also spend 30 million dinars to buy lighting for the New Year. There's no electricity on the salash between the Greys and the Reds, and there's no electricity on Dragica and Danila Kaludjerski's salad. They were born on that salasse and live there already who knows what generation they are. Salaš is not thrown because it is located only 40 metres from the regional road Kula-Sombor, and at 200 meters is their first bander, or the nearest electric pole that is really little away and can be introduced to electricity. There is a "Jafa" factory in Crvenka and Sekeran two or three kilometers away. In the part where their salash is, so it's salash number one, their salash isn't lonely because around it are cottages and many more salsas to that regional road, so the tenants of these salsa and cottages wrote a petition and 86 signed an orderly petition and they sent them back several years ago to Electrodistribution, now Electric Network and the Municipality of The Tower. Power distribution, the current power grid said it's not profitable to introduce electricity to these salads because they're simply small consumers, so they won't pay much electricity and the Power Network doesn't mean anything, so it's a small amount of money to them. The introduction of electricity and the flow of that low-power trafo station would cost about 500,000 dinars, so I ask what's going to be 30 million dinars in 90 days spent on New Year's Eve in our cities? So the state only knows how to charge the costs, and when it comes to providing people with electricity in the 21st century, it only looks through money. I don't know if people deserve it. I ask the Minister of Economy – will it help these people to get power into Serbia's power grid? Does the 2017 budget have the means to enable these people to live a normal life on salasses? Will the hotels on the Kopalnik run out of electricity? Is that where the Power Network is going to power or leave them out of power because they might be small consumers? Do people with these jokes need to move out, go to cities, live in small garages and work for 200 euros, how many foreign investors offer for wages, because we know that our country provides not only electricity but provides them with everything they need to come to our country to work. I have nothing against them, but I simply ask – do our citizens deserve the 21st century to have the state give them electricity? I ask Prime Minister Alexander Vukic what he will do to treat the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the same way under the Constitution. The constitution stipulates that we all have equal rights to life, and life in the 21st century is the right to all have electricity. The second question is that I'm asking the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance. Employees in the dorm and dormitories did not receive salaries for the second half of October which was due to be paid by 30 November 2016. I ask – when will the employees of the student and student homes get paid for the second half of October, for November and when will they get for December? Is the 2016 budget, which already points out, intended for employees in dorm and dormitories? If they did, why didn't they get paid? How much money is foreseen for the salaries of these employees in 2017, or will they receive regular salaries in 2017? Employees in dormitories are interested in why they are associated with employees in higher and secondary education institutions because they belong to the student standard and are provided for by the Law on Student and Student Standard. All education workers received salaries for the October 5th month and for December 6th.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8297	Bring the end, colleague. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8298	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the issue may also be for the Prime Minister himself. As is already known, there is a parliamentary office in Nis which opened in 2012 on the basis of a pilot of the project of the Republika Srpska Assembly and the National Democratic Institute. During the previous period, a large number of citizens appeared to the office asking for some help and resolving certain issues, but certain associations and NGOs also appeared, but also some institutions of the city of Nis, giving some proposals and initiatives. In the framework of Parliamentism Sunday, which was from 7 to 13 November 2016, the MP's office in Nis and the parliamentary group of PUPS in the Assembly of the City of Nis, in co-operation with associations and organisations dealing with the status and material position of the elderly, organised a tribune titled "The current position of the elderly". Given that a large number of old people retire or become marginalized and forgotten, passive, and often discriminated, research shows that they can continue to be useful members of the social community, because they know a lot, know, and want to change what can be changed. The humanity of a society is measured, among other things, by its relations with the old. Old people deserve to live their lives with dignity. In us tens of thousands of old live in misery, in the deepest poverty, for them life is a daily struggle, and their loneliness is a constant companion. As Serbia is the country with the oldest population in the world and Europe, the need to pay greater attention to old people, from the field of labour and employment, the reform of the PIO system, the health care of the elderly, the social protection of the elderly, discrimination and neglect of the old, to the area of providing services, because age often appears as a discriminatory condition. In 2005, the National Ageing Strategy for 2006-2015 was adopted, conceptually done with recommendations and commitments made by the Madrid International Plan for Ageing Action 2002 and the regional strategy of its implementation by the UN Economic Commission for Europe. The main objective of the national strategy is to create an integrated and coordinated policy based on modern scientific knowledge and obligations taken from those documents, which will be taken by the society and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, above all, health and social protection... I'm begging you, if you could just keep it down a notch. Chairman, I ask you to bring order. Well, for those of you who listen, it doesn't matter. Above all, health, social protection, labour market, education, to comply with demographic changes in order to create a society for all lifetimes that especially strives to meet needs and free the untapped potentials of old people. The Council on Age and Age Affairs in February 2011 established a Council on Age and Age Affairs. The government of the Republic of Serbia has appointed the council and it is the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like you to listen to the orders of that council. The Council's tasks are to consider issues of age and age which measure to improve inter-resorial co-operation in this area, examine and consider issues of social and economic situation of old citizens, the possibility of using their working and creative potential and their participation in the development of society, economic and public life, to consider compliance with the applicable rules with the basic international conventions, which trigger initiatives to amend and supplement the rules governing these issues. I have two questions for the government, or the Prime Minister. Given that the strategy was adopted in 2005 for the period from 2006 to 2015, what further? Will its validity be extended or a new ageing strategy will be adopted? And, second question, Council..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8299	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8300	... for age and age issues since its constitution in 2011, he held only two sessions or at least so many sessions were recorded, so I am interested – where can I find... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8301	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8302	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to request a notice from two ministries, namely to be precise from the Department of Veterans of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We were all witnesses to yesterday's event in Šapec when the dog raced the Stafford terrier and according to some versions of the event, after it happened yesterday afternoon, of course, the media reported differently about this event, but I would say that this is the most authentic version of which is said that the dog of this race attacked and devoured three minor children aged seven and eight years in the yard of the primary school. This is just inadmissible. For this reason, I would like to introduce the public and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to the Rules on how dogs can be held may pose a danger to the environment and especially to Articles 7 and 4 of this Regulation. Otherwise, Article 2 of this Regulation defines which breeds of dogs are so-called ‘dogs’. Dangerous dogs. Of course, you don't need me to tell you that a race of Stafford terrier is considered a dangerous dog. The position of Article 7 of this Regulation – the owner of a dangerous dog must keep the dog in a space, i.e. an object that is the appropriate size and from which the dog, I stress, cannot escape. Paragraph 4 reads: the entry into the space or facility in which a dangerous dog is held must be kept under lock and key, therefore, in a specific case the dog was not only in the proper properly secured space, but was also walking freely through the streets without a muzzle, which is contrary to Article 5 of this Regulation and entered into the yard of the elementary school. Unfortunately, this is not a lonely case of irresponsible behavior by individual owners of these breeds of dogs, so-called. Dangerous dogs. And recently, a few weeks ago, I witnessed a case where he owned one of the so-called. The mighty dogs walked the prince of Michael on the street of his dog without a cranberry and without a leash. Can you imagine how many children there are at that moment on Prince Michael's street, not to mention adults? So, I think we all must agree that this behavior must be put in the way and that appropriate measures must be applied against these irresponsible owners of dogs. So that I wouldn't be misunderstood here, I don't call on any witch hunts, not to the ban of any kind, or race of dogs, because it's not scientifically proven that one race of dogs is the best friend of man, and that some other greatest enemy, but practice has shown that certain breeds of dogs in the hands of irresponsible owners can become, I say, dangerous weapons. I therefore appeal to the competent authorities to impose appropriate measures, in the sense of issuing orders for enhanced control of irresponsible owners, i.e. the irresponsible behaviour of individual owners of these dangerous breeds of dogs, but also to take more severe sanctions against them. Also, I think it would be good to consider innovating a proper regulation, this regulation that I quoted from 2010, it seems to me, that it should be revised and perhaps impose more severe sanctions on those who deserve it. I'm asking the departments to report to me on the measures they're planning to take and which they're going to take in connection with these and similar cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8303	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8304	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are helping God to help everyone. I would like to ask a few questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but first of all, to the President of the National Assembly, why, after two months, no session on the topic is scheduled. Our Devere MP group has referred ten topics to the Assembly so far. These are: the security and economic social situation in Serbia in connection with the migrant crisis, international pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia concerning negotiations and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, unresolved security problems in relation to foreign intelligence agents, assassinations of high-ranking state officials, the threat of economic food and health security of Serbian citizens against the illegal imports and traffic of genetically modified food and seed, the privileged and long-term lease of orans in Serbia by the German meat industry Tenis, relations between Serbia and NATO, the sale of agricultural land to foreign citizens as of 1 September 2017, the suspension of the temporary suspension of compulsory military service, non-application and endangerment of Cyrillic as the official letter of the Republic of Serbia and the problem of white plague, i.e.e. the growth of mortality and emigration of labour from Serbia. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to hold a session on the topic at issue at least once a month. We haven't had it in three months, and that speaks of the relationship of the ruling majority with the key themes of this society that cannot come to the congregation's agenda. A question for Police Minister and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, as Aleksandar Sidelic was arrested in Serbia and whether he was delivered to Montenegro by helicopters, under the agreement of Aleksandar Vukic and Milo Djukanovic, to be placed in the position of a mounted affair in Montenegro's elections. Yesterday, we received an announcement from Montenegrin authorities that they had called an international Interpol red warrant for two citizens of Russia and three Serbian citizens, among other things, and Predrag Bogicevic, president of the Ravnog Movement in Serbia, and we are interested in whether Serbian citizens will continue to be delivered to Milo Djukanovic because of political arrangements by Aleksandar Vukic, who is saving the failed regime, Milo Djukanovic. The same applies to the fate of the Colonel in the pension of Radovan Aleksic, who has been in prisons in Montenegro since 2 October 2016, and as we can see, the Serbian state does not make it possible to protect its citizens who are still in Montenegro's prisons. The question, also for Aleksandar Vucic, whether city officials Goran Vesic and Sinisa Mali and other city officials who demonstrated in front of the court on 29 November 2016 in support of Minister Stefanovic, will be paid for that day, given that they were not in the workplace, and that their support before the court is not in the job description of the minister. A very important question for the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister - is it accurate information, and I have a paper that shows that this information is correct, about the delay in the inflow of budgets for employees for the month of November 2016 at the University of Novi Sad? Here, I will read you all the information – University of Novi Sad informs universities in its composition that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is not available at this time in its budget with enough resources available at the position of employees for the month of November 2016, since the University of Novi Sad colleges will not receive funds for this purpose with the dynamics that is common. So, this famous surplus in the government budget of the Republic of Serbia has proved to be one big lie and here, there is no salary for employees at the University of Novi Sad at the moment. The question, of course, for Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, why is it that only her Ministry on the Government site has no specified area for which she is in charge, nor any contact, phone number, email address or website, on which citizens would inform what she is doing at all? And finally, a very important issue for the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, Rasim Ljajic and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Namely, closing remarks are under way against General Ratko Mladic in front of The Hague tribunal. Since this case is extremely important for us, we are asking a question -- what has the state done for the past five years to help prepare General Mladic's defence? The second question - is it possible that the state of Serbia has done nothing when it comes to the extremely difficult state of general Mladic and has left him at the mercy of The Hague tribunal? What is the fact is that the Russians are trying to help Mladic at the moment without doing anything for him by the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8305	Five minutes, Mr. Beard. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8306	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the government and the Ministry of Finance -- why is the budget for education denied by 26.84 billion dinars, when we know that the most profitable investments in education and science are? Without increasing the number of educational inspectors and educational advisors, and also cabinet classes, we do not have quality teaching and good education successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8307	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8308	I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. Two days ago, we had a debate in parliament on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, and we discussed some proposals that the Democratic Party Parliamentary Club made in the amendments it submitted, and these amendments concern, above all, student standards and incentives for the development of the most talented students in the Republic of Serbia. We have received a principle of agreement, in fact, the agreement of the prime minister that this is a very important topic and that we will work together to find this problem. However, it is obvious that we received information this morning that the amendments were not accepted. I want to ask the question - what is it that the government plans next year on these important issues? We pointed out that, here today, before the debate in detail on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, we pointed out that this budget represents a projection in relation to the achievement of 2016, but that it is only sustainable on condition that we have a sustainability of life in Serbia. This sustainability will be ensured if we invest in the youngest. I think it's important to point out exactly what we wanted with these amendments, which is that we are aware that a lot of parents in Serbia sent children to school without breakfast this morning. Unfortunately, the great injustice that hurts all of us, and I think it's important that we look for ways to provide every child in Serbia with a free meal, every school child, and it's possible to implement this through our proposal to allocate six billion dinars to 850,000 children, with it possible to do so in line with the projected budget, because we suggested that the funds be taken down, and we had this remark that there was no position that we specified that could be removed from. They can be removed from subsidies to public enterprises. We even pointed out, recognising the importance of this topic, because it is not a question of vanity whether or not our amendment will be accepted, but a way to resolve this important topic. We have proposed that both the Ministry and the Prime Minister and the professional services find ways and propose their own amendment and through an amendment that this Assembly would accept. I hope that all MPs in this room agree with the need to solve this problem and this is the kind of call made to the Prime Minister and all resolution ministers to find a solution, but also to answer this question – what is it going to be to be the government's policy next year to make the standard of all students in secondary and primary schools in Serbia? The second amendment that has also come upon approval and agreement with its essence, it is an incentive of the most talented children, children who have enormous potential, because that is where we wanted to make one unique approach in which we will support all those who have less abilities, but also deserve at least so much justice to have a basis for life, at least one meal. On the other hand, it is necessary to invest enough for those most talented children, who through greater isolation, therefore, we have proposed to allocate two billion more than planned allocations, through the Innovation Action Fund can receive support for the achievement of both our knowledge and for the promotion of these knowledge. We are also aware that because of the current situation in education many children with huge potential are not recognized in the right way, in the right way selected, and I think we are losing it terribly as a society. I think it is very important to raise that level of recognition of each child, each of its potentials, and to look for opportunities for what was crucial in this debate, which is that we said that given the large and growing public debt, ten billion more than the period of five years ago, we have to raise GDP, and that is only possible through the use of each man's potential in Serbia, and above all investment in young people. What is also important, of course, is that it affects both the atmosphere in society and the reduction of our potential and our atmosphere and political life. We often disqualify our political opponents and witness that every day and in this room, but also in the public of Serbia, we have a speech that is not worthy of this Parliament and this society and I think we must work on it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8309	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8310	Thank you. The first question is referred to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic – why does the Prime Minister insult the MPs of the opposition and all those who make arguments and opinions contrary to his whenever he visits the National Assembly? At its session on 5 December 2016, the prime minister insulted DJB MPs, as well as MPs of other opposition parties, and the speaker of the assembly neither warned him nor allowed others to respond to the insults. We demand that the Prime Minister answer the following questions. What did he mean when he said the following – soon another kind of help comes to you to free you from these heavy duties, that's something you buy on the bar, I don't know where to buy, I haven't tried it in my life? Does the Prime Minister think that words - you talk nonsense, you talk nonsense, you're liars, you're arguments? Why does he repeat the lies that the DJB's messengers have cursed, insulted or spit on anyone? And finally, why did the Prime Minister insult the citizens of Chačka, Užica, the Prime Minister insulted the citizens of Chačka, Užica, Zlatibor, by making fun of the way they use words when they speak? DJB MPs don't insult anyone, which is clearly evident from the stenogram. What is the prime minister doing and is he trying to cover up his own weakness, anxiety, lack of arguments and knowledge to perform the important function he performs? The next question is for Mr Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education. What caused the delay in the inflow of budget funds for employees at all the state universities in Serbia for November 2016? The universities received information that the Ministry of Education does not have enough funds to pay off employees' earnings for November. They were also told that it is necessary for this purpose to provide the missing funds from the current budget reserve of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Do you know that you have brought employees into the financial misdemeanour situation, because due to the delay in payments, they are unable to meet the obligation to pay monthly expenses, especially those who tie their credit rates to the payout date? I demand an answer - what caused this situation and who is responsible? Also, a question for Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević. In Article 8. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System has been defined that a person performing educational training must have education from psychological, pedagogical and methodical disciplines acquired at a higher education institution, during the course of studies or after graduating from at least 30 points and six points of practice in the establishment. These disciplines were also part of the study programmes before the adoption of the System Foundings Act, since the largest number of students were defined as working in the study. In this regard, these disciplines, i.e. these cases, were attended by generations who enrolled in school studies 2006/07, 2007/8 and 2008/09. However, because of the systematization of the points that the university has conducted in this regard, these generations do not have the right to approach the licence for continuing work. Generations that have enrolled studies after 2009, although listening and passing the same items, have the right to approach the exam only because of a different harmonised system of points. For example, the Faculty of Music Arts sent a letter to certain music schools on 18 February 2016 to plan during the summer semester, 2015/16, to organise a special course from those disciplines, explaining that students of controversial generations did not receive adequate education from those disciplines. The fact is that students did have education from these disciplines as well as generations before and after, but that college didn't score them the same way. Why wasn't this solved during the study, and why didn't the students have the information that they'd have to retake these cases? Why did the Ministry of Time not respond in favor of the students at the time when they entered the master program and allowed them to make up for the points on master studies? Why did the Faculty of Music Art raise this issue six years after the end of the study, so-called Dispute generations, and now students have to pay between 20,000 and 40,000 dinars for objects they've already listened to and paid and passed? Who is responsible for this unprecedented discrimination against three generations of students? In the end, a question for Mr. Lonchar's health minister. The Republic Health Insurance Fund adopted a new Regulation on Medical Rehabilitation at the station and health institutions specialised in rehabilitation, which entered into force on 15 December 2016. This rule has, like no other, restricted the right to the so-called so-called. Banjski treatment of disabled persons. This Regulation has denied banjski treatment for persons with muscular dystrophy. I hope the minister knows that dystrophy is the most progressive disease and that rehabilitating these people is actually their only cure. The new Regulation allows Banjski treatment of persons who have dystrophy on the cost of the fund only once every three years. Why do people with disabilities not have the right to banish treatment at least once a year, when you know that physical therapy in health homes is not enough, nor does it provide adequate forms of rehabilitation? Who is being treated in Serbian spas? I demand answers - how many people have applied for Banjski treatment during 2016? How much is approved and how much is denied? The structure of the disease of the people who have been given the right to Banjski treatment on the cost of the fund, the length of the rehabilitation period, and how real are the facilities of the Banj spas? How much funds were allocated for these purposes in 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8311	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one question for two ministers, for the Minister of the Interior and for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It has been a long time, more than a month, since a group of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Montenegro were arrested on false charges of terrorism, and then three have left a crime of terrorism, and four have released it while the 13 have been requalified as a criminal or enemy association. It is obvious at the first moment that it was all directed by Milo Djukanovic's regime, and now I have evidence, the same evidence that the BIA has. The security information agency listened to Milan Pavasovic, called Charug, from Novi Banovac, when he was arrested on October 19th 2016 and took to Novi Sad for questioning. Everything he told them, he told me. On the same day, he was released, threatening not to make statements to the media or speak publicly. Since he can't make a statement to the media, I can. I know the whole story about that case. Mil Djukanovic's executioner was a certain Mirko Velimirovic from Zubi Potok, he received money to gather Serb patriots from different organisations and to guide them to the demonstrations in Montenegro. None of them left with guns and nobody said anything about guns. No one has ever mentioned General Dikovic, and no one has mentioned this Alexander Siljelic, who later appeared as an alleged witness associate. So people are just drawn to leaving. Not everyone who went that way, whose path was financed by Mirko Velimirovic, has been arrested. Some came back, some didn't even ask for it. They picked one group and now they're trying to direct the process. Dikovic seems to have found himself there by chance, Dikic, former commander of Zandarmeria, severely ill with pancreas cancer, last days to spend past St. Vasili Ostrosko's Bridge in the Ostrovsko monastery. Now instead of the Foreign Ministry and the MUP taking part in the disclosure of this mafia idea by Milo Djukanovic, they are helping him. All of a sudden, Alexander Sidelic, a fellow witness, was brought into Podgorica from Belgrade and was not arrested. They found him - well, now you're going to play the part of a fellow witness and you're going to say everything you need to say. There's been an investigation against two Russians, and I've been looking into it. I spent the most days on it. These Russians don't even exist under that name and name. There were no Russians in Serbia at the relevant time. If, by chance, there are people in Russia with that last name, then they're people who have nothing to do with this case, and it can be easily proven. I don't know why Russian diplomacy is still silent and not publicising that these are false names and false accusations, but it is my duty as a national MP and a Serbian patriot that everything I have learned to declare to the National Assembly and to the Serbian public, to question these ministers, because they will be directly responsible for participating in this great conspiracy against the Serbian people. This is a conspiracy against both Serbia and Russia. If Russia wanted to remove Djukanovic, there are hundreds of methods to blow him off, to swallow him dark, not buy people like this before retirement, people of pensioners and old women going there to knock him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8313	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to be informed in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8314	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask two questions to the foreign ministry and two questions to Minister Mihajlovic and Minister Vulina. As far as the foreign ministry is concerned, questions will refer to the situation in Croatia. Many situations show that there is an open process of rehabilitation of the Constitution and Ustasha ideology in Croatia and that Croatian society does not have the strength to face its criminal past from the time of World War II and from the time of the 1990s. A significant contribution to this process is made, unfortunately, by Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, a number of Croatian politicians, but also by a number of public figures, athletes, members of the Catholic hierarchy, artists and others. I would like to list just a few examples, chauvinist and professional, of the Croatian president's behaviour. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic recently took pictures with the Ustasha flag during a visit to Canada and said after her return a shocking statement that she does not see anything controversial. Then, the Croatian president regularly goes to the shooting Ustasha criminals in Blyburg and places flowers on a memorial plate on which the Ustasha chess room is located and on the tablet is written – in honor and glory to the dead Croatian soldiers. The Croatian president said she loves to listen, the main star on the Croatian estrad, pro-USTA singer Mark Perkovic Tomson, who sings about the massacre of Serbs. The Croatian president has not condemned the recent burning of the Serbian flag in Glina, openly calling for the link between the remaining Serbs in Croatia. The Croatian President, as commander-in-chief of the Croatian Armed Forces, did not condemn the mass served by the third guard brigade military Vicar. Finally. The latest event, is the fact that the Croatian president did not dare raise the monument to the Ustasha greeting panel in the centre of Jasenovac, directly insulting hundreds of thousands of killed Serbs, Roma and Jews in the infamous NDH. I would ask, first question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – when will our Ministry send the strongest protest to the Croatian side, in which they will present all these facts and ask Croatia to start the process of facing its past? Also, the second question – when will our Foreign Ministry send a sharp protest to the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament, the Chairman of the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, the head of the European People's Party Group, whose one member and the Croatian Democratic Community and ask that the European Union institutions finally send a clear message to the official Zagreb that such behaviour is unacceptable and that Croatia is causing unrest, instability and widespread hatred in this region? I would also ask two questions from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, namely Mrs. Mihajlovic and Mr. Vulin, concerning the problem of 530 families, the user of the SIR programme. In Serbia, we have about 3,500 refugee families that have settled their housing issue. Three thousand families were given the right to buy their apartments under the Refugees Act, but unfortunately 530 families did not get it, and they live in seven cities. These are the cities of Nis, Čačak, Valjevo, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Pančevo and the municipalities of Stara Paz. I think it's a big injustice, that 530 refugee families and one part of the family of the locals have no right to buy their apartments and wait for that injustice to be corrected for eight years. I ask the question, Mrs. Mihajlović and Mr. Vulin, when will they prepare a proposal for a conclusion for the government, which will allow these 530 cards to be applied to the Refugees Act and that these families will finally be entitled to ransom and that they know they live in their apartments? In this way, a number of years of injustice would be corrected against those families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8315	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs – Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Nada Lazic. We continue to work in accordance with Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a search in detail on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal FOR THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA FOR 2017. For the purposes of Article 90(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with them Mirjana Culibasic and Nenad Mijailovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Miles Marjanović, Vera Savatović, Ivan Prvulović, Olivera Ružić Poparić, Slavica Manojlović and Irena Injac, senior advisors at the Ministry of Finance, are present. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill: Dusan Pavlovic, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Saša Radulović, Marko Djurisić, Goran Bogdanović, Zoran Živković, Goran Žilić, Goran Žirić, Gordana Čomić, Radoslav Milojić, Miroslav Aleksic, Dr Sanda Rašavić, Vladimir Žurić, Nenad Bozic, Zoran Krasić, Božidar Delić, Dejan Šulić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, LJupka Mihajlovska, Marija Janjušević, Natasa Jovanović, Dubravko Bojić, Vjerica Rade, Jovan Žaža Žač, Mirić, Mirić, Miljana Mirčić, Sredić, Mirčić, Sreto Peračević, Mr Marko Milo Belenković, Miro Milo Milo Milo Milović, Mirović, Mirić, Milažić, Mirić, Mila Ža Žović, Mila Ža Ža Žažović, Žažović, Žažović, Žažažović, Žažović, Žažažović, Mražović, Žažović, Miražović, Miražović, Miražović, Mira Ža Žažaž. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Glava I and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8316	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is the time to explain now what has taken place, in fact, the amendment concerning the reduction of the planned funds relating to the National Assembly budget. Before I go, let me explain the whole story to the procedure that actually happened to this amendment, which, after all, the government adopted. It should be said that the authorising officer is practically the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of the budget. She, by function, with her service, simply works out a budget proposal for next year. Of course, none of the MPs enter these proposals and simply supports what the Secretary-General gives to the Administrative Committee as his proposal. Under the proposal, the secretary-general wanted to increase certain items in terms of 500 million, compared to last year, which would refer to the reconstruction of the National Assembly facilities, since in collaboration with the German GIZ Development Agency last year we received energy passports and not only for this building, but also for the Serbian Palace building and for the Serbian presidency building, and in order to introduce some new investments, when it comes to equipment and what concerns the education of employees, it came about simply going to the government. The government adopted the proposal, but since all institutions and all ministries have revised their proposals in order, practically, saving and reducing their demands, I think there was one, perhaps, uninformed that there were some other sources of funding when it comes to investment in the reconstruction of public buildings that exist now through certain lines of KFV, i.e. the German Bank, which practically has open projects for the reconstruction of public buildings. Then there was, about, a joint summation of the results and with the Secretary-General so that we could suggest on the Finance Committee that certain savings of 400 million, and yet 100 million more proposals be made than last year, should be revised through the Committee's amendment. Such an amendment, as president of the Committee, I have proposed, is adopted by the assembly majority, and this is essentially what we find certain solutions in the budget itself that we can save a lot of, but still, to realize a lot. And what we have seen is that there is an illogicality, and that is to say, that employees in the Serbian Parliament need to have certain certificates on legal proposals, and that the essential services here that they adopt and that help law-making are much better known than certain institutions that are involved in the education of the issue of these certificates. The Assembly as well as other institutions is responsible for paying those licences. We considered it necessary in that part of the license to be less funded than before. So, certain savings are intended to be invested, much more when it comes to the building, when the equipment is done, with the budget being in any case smaller than it was designed in 2012. Therefore, the members of the Committee to whom this has been proposed have accepted such an amendment, Minister Vujovic accepted this amendment, not getting involved practically in the proposals of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8317	Just one question, colleague Tomic, is this from the time of the authorised representative of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of spending, as a rapporteur? (Alexandra Tomic, from the place: Yes. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8318	Dear citizens of Serbia, on this amendment, we can see all the hypocrisy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic. What exactly is behind this amendment proposed by the Finance Committee? There is a story about savings from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, while the government of the Republic of Serbia during that time increases its budget by a billion and 600 million dinars. So, the Finance Committee, the ruling majority headed by SNS kidnappings from the National Assembly's budget, continues to humiliate the National Assembly of 400 million dinars, among other things for employees, while the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving itself an additional billion and 600 million dinars. Why is this an extra big scandal? For a very simple reason, this budget of the National Assembly had to be the subject of the agenda of the Administrative Committee. On the Administrative Board, Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the parliamentary group of forwarders, as chairman of the Administrative Board, did not even open the debate on this subject, he banned all MPs from the opposition and even because a special scandal did not give a word to the secretary-general to explain the draft assembly budget. At the end of all this, the Finance Committee, which is behind Alexander Vukic, as it stands behind everything you do, reduces the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 400 million dinars and increases the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia by a billion and 600 million dinars. It's savings in watching SNS. Humiliate the National Assembly and give more money to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't you cancel state agencies, what did you promise in your pre-election promises? Why didn't you fire your party parasites you hired in the state administration? You take it from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you give it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's the scandal behind this amendment. The biggest scandal is that you directly hit these great people who work in the professional services of the National Assembly and reduce from the position of their rewards and in every way humiliate the National Assembly. It is a shame what salaries are paid in the National Assembly, it is a shame how you treat employees in the National Assembly and how you disrespect them. In the end, you're still taking 400 million dinars from the National Assembly budget. Why are you doing all this, I'm gonna find out. You are doing this so that all political power would be transferred to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the hands of one man, Alexander Vukic, and that the National Assembly, as the most important state institution, would be humiliated, destroyed, ridiculed and, in any other way, further derrogated here. Here is the key question – has the Government of the Republic of Serbia chosen us MPs or are we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia those who choose the Government and who control the Government? So the government won't rule the National Assembly and that's what we want to show you. That's why we're against this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8319	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8320	I thank the chairman. The government doesn't rule the Parliament, but you would rule the government, Mr. Obradovic, you know. No one took 400 million, but suggested 500 million more budgets. It's more for certain investments. A 100 million more has been left behind, and 400 million will be financed from other aspects in the reconstruction of buildings, equipment and training of employees. Therefore, your obsession with Mr. Vukic is already in pathology. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8321	Based on what? (Bosko Obradović, from town: Obsession. That you're obsessed with Alexander Wolf?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8322	Dear Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to respond to this truly unnecessary kind of disqualification. No one here is obsessed with Alexander Vukic, but Alexander Vukic is obsessed with no opposition. He would most like the opposition in the National Assembly to be gone. He even wants extraordinary parliamentary elections, to cast the opposition out of the assembly. So, who's obsessed with who, we can discuss it, but that's not the point. The theme is why are you robbing the budget of the National Assembly? Why do you take from the staff of the National Assembly? Why don't you reward employees in professional services who do their job well, but transfer that money to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Minister, you didn't answer my question, either, which I've been asking you for four days here. How come a billion and 600 million dinars more that you're making for the government of the Republic of Serbia? Where are your savings in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? For not abolishing unnecessary agencies, but now we're obsessed with Alexander Wolfich. No, we say that Alexander Vukitch is breaking his pre-election promises. He said the abolition of unnecessary agencies, you didn't lift any. He said he wouldn't cut pensions, you cut pensions. He said he'd arrest criminals, not one in prison based on a judicial verdict. So Alexander Vukic lies, makes false pre-election promises and that's true, and the job of the opposition is to criticise the government. You won't silence us no matter how many of us we throw, no matter how long we try to silence the authority of the opposition in the National Assembly, you won't succeed. It is our duty, the citizens have chosen us to criticize you, and you must learn democracy. Democracy means you're the government, we're the opposition. You're doing something, we're following it, and we're criticizing it, and I'm telling you a simple thing, give it back to the National Assembly and save it in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you've given a billion and 600 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8323	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker, when the Prime Minister was here, mentioned between the other and the word "Serbia." There is a book by John Ducic, “I believe in God and in Serbia. ” Jovan Ducic, among other things, described the conduct of Croatian MPs in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. They thought they were still in parliament with Austrian or Hungarian, and there they used to, as they were in a foreign state, shouting, shouting, shouting, hitting benches and in every way possible to disable the session's work. Then they also transferred that mentality to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Assembly, not realizing that Yugoslavia is their state. In the same way today, individual MPs of the united opposition who do not understand that Serbia is among other things their state and that there is no need to behave in an extremely uncivilised manner. As far as the board's session was concerned, all those so-called "administrative committee" were acting. The joint opposition as wrote by Jovan Ducic, shouting, threatening, swearing, entering into his face, literally looking for a physical incident. They did not need a debate on the assembly budget, nor were they interested in the congregation budget, nor were they interested in the agenda. They were interested in creating a problem for me as chairman of the Administrative Committee, making an incident and saying that the National Assembly could not function normally and that responsibility for this had the largest SNS parliamentary party. As far as the Assembly budget is concerned, the Assembly budget has been prepared minutely, in detail, in regular consultations with the Ministry of Finance. The draft assembly budget, which was discussed at a session of the Administrative Committee, was done in the limits given to us by the Ministry of Finance. After that, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, Mrs. Svetislava Bulajic, Mrs. Saška Tomic, as chairman of the Finance Committee and I, we sat down and agreed that we could further cut the assembly budget by 400 million dinars without questioning the normal work of the National Assembly. What did we foresee for these 400 million dinars, so that the citizens of Serbia would know? When, among other things, on October 5, 2000, the building of the National Assembly was burned down, it was then partially renovated, but there are still basement rooms, here in this building where we run sessions, which are not renovated, which are still burned, unusable. The conference system, which we have here and use, you remember that affair led by an MP from the former regime's party. He built this conference system we have. Who is there, how much money he took, who with whom, what the people would say, I won't talk about it at all. The fact is that the conference system here in the National Assembly Hall doesn't work in the best way possible, but we said, since the state is saving, everything that isn't most necessary, and that will continue to allow normal work of the National Assembly, that it enters the Assembly budget and the Finance Committee has proposed an amendment to cut the budget of the National Assembly by an additional 400 million dinars. This will allow MPs, who are on the National Assembly payroll to receive salaries, employees of the National Assembly to receive salaries, sessions that can take place and there are no problems in the normal functioning of parliament. Would it be better if we had those 400 million dinars left, so we could finish renovating those buildings, or parts of the buildings that haven't been renovated? Well, it would be better, given the fact that the House of the National Assembly since 1984 is a monument of culture of national importance. It was also planned to perform certain architectural, or construction works, which are not a bit simple and which cost a lot and we gave it up. But all this does not question the normal work of the National Assembly. I don't understand Mr. Bosko Obradovic at all why he is so concerned about the budget of the National Assembly. Mr. Obradovic, as long as you are a People's MP you will have a regular salary, your salary will be no less, you will have all the privileges that other MPs have and do not worry that your salary will be reduced or that your salary will be abolished. The reduction of the congregation budget by 400 million dinars will in no way endanger the functioning of the MPs, nor will it endanger the functioning of the Service of the National Assembly, which helps all of us to prepare ourselves for the work of the National Assembly. And here's what I'm gonna do. Because there's been a lot of talk about it. As for the meeting of the Administrative Committee, which requires my shift, the other day the united opposition of Serbia held a joint press conference and again told a series of lies about how I am not supposed to schedule a session of the Administrative Committee. I will, and I don't have a problem. I'll schedule it immediately within 10 minutes. I'm just looking for article 71. The Rules of Procedure shall sign six members of the Committee, because the deputy member of the Committee of Members only changes it at the sitting, shall not change it in other its activities. If you find me a member of the Rules of Procedure who writes that the deputy member is changing members in all his rights and obligations, I only ask you to tell me who the member of the Rules of Procedure is and to stop doing more with that hypocrite - when you refer to the Rules of Procedure, then it is the one who does not give you a word in the Rules of Procedure, when you do not have any right under the Rules of Procedure, then it is not the Rules of Procedure. So you're either asking to apply the Rules of Procedure or you're asking for the Rules of Procedure not to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8325	Comrade Martinovic, get back to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8326	When you give me six signatures from the SNS Committee, it'll give you a quorum, because you yourself don't have a quorum. So we'll give you a quorum five hours, ten hours, 15 hours. Talk about the President of the Administrative Committee, i.e. About me with a quorum that will give you SNS all the worst, talk freely, I don't have any problem with that, I'm just asking to apply the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8327	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8328	I thank the chairman. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. He called me by my name. ) (Saša Radulović, from town: Replica. Can I speak or can I never speak? I guess I'm an MP like the ones who are a little loud and yelling, etc. And they're louder. So, anything Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic said, I can absolutely stand behind it and I don't need to repeat his words. It is obvious that the speaker who tried to explain his amendment not to speak at all about his amendment, but again it is a matter of preparation and knowledge at all about the draft budget law, wanted to speak again in fact about Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and what he preferred not to distinguish the general debate and debate on the amendments at all. So, I want because of the public, not because of a speaker who is underprivileged and who is not at all interested in the truth, that the functioning of the Republic of Serbia's parliament by absolutely reducing the items that we have moved and done and joining the austerity measures in general, and we are the ones who support the government and why we should not join in any of the austerity measures -- it is not clear to me, nothing is compromised. We will have sessions, MPs who are employed here will get paid, so MPs who rebel against their pay will get their own co-workers, they will be able to travel, employees will receive salaries and the system will function perfectly here. So it doesn't take any of the 250 MPs to be concerned about it. What concerns me is that there is also one reason why we went to a reduction in this budget, and I have initiated it personally as President of Parliament, very ugly writing after a session of the Administrative Committee, not during the session, I will not go into it at all, nor to be an arbiter- whether it was good or not, there are the public and there are MPs to say their own, but what some media wrote -- what money is being spent in parliament and then MPs of some, who God knows that they are concerned about the functioning of parliament, did not stand up for Parliament's dignity, did not hold a press conference, did not ask me a question as Parliament's president – which you do not respond when it is written about Parliament in a very small way. It is not said that we are going on official trips to deal with parliamentary diplomacy, to strengthen bilateral relations with some countries, but it is mostly said that MPs go somewhere to boast, to have fun. No one says that our salaries are the least paid across Europe and that they are praised, that 10 years here have not increased the salaries of MPs. You never said that because you're understated, because you won't speak and defend parliament every time you need to. Why don't you answer that, why don't you hold a press conference when it's written about Parliament at the lowest possible level? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Maja, as soon as you raise your wages, I will answer it. No, I'm not gonna raise my salary for sure. I don't raise wages, nor is it necessary in this time when people barely make ends meet in this country. Our wages are quite enough. I'm talking about something else, a false concern for this House's dignity, a false concern about whether this parliament will function, whether it can work when we gave up 400 million dinars. We did, we gave up. The system is very bad here, but we can work and if we wait a little while when we press the button whether six MPs will report at one point, or five MPs will report at one point. We can do it that way. False concern. None of you have walked this parliament to see what parliament looks like and how much longer after October 5th, the premises here remain burned down, as we have a power problem. When we marked the existence of this building for 80 years, there were 20 MPs to get to know each other, to look at that brochure that shows how many pictures were missing in this House. Where's our money to start one big action to find 100 stolen paintings since October 5th? Then where were you? About 50 significant Wyatt sculptures. Well, let's see what that cabinet I'm working in right now looks like, which is burned. You don't care where you work, what a historic building. The dignity of Parliament? Parliament's dignity will not be threatened with 400 million less. Parliament's dignity is threatened by this, malignancy, inaction when they write about us whether parliament should have a toilet or not, to show us as someone who's wasting people's money because we go 24 hours somewhere to represent the state and come right back. You're reacting then. Then as a member of the ruling party, the SNS, I will respect you as my colleagues, not as president. Then I'll see that you're really worried about the functioning of parliament, not whether we decided to save, because that fact obviously hurts, that it can be saved in any place. And yes, of course, we do everything by agreeing with the president of our party, the SNS, and his name is Alexander Vukic. It's our choice, and I don't see what kind of problem you have that we have our president. As long as, in the history of the multi-party system, the president who was elected by the people, members of one party at the convention, was the president of the state, the government, whatever you want. We have colleagues across the street who when they stopped respecting their president, when they went to football games and didn't participate in the campaign, he lost. That's not gonna happen to us. Yes, we sat together and we saved 400 million and the citizens of Serbia would be better off because those 400 million will go for other purposes when needed. It's called the budget reserve, let me explain. So, this amendment we have to refuse, the explanation is completely inadequate. We haven't heard anything but politics, not in essence, but politics. This is a feature of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8329	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the people's messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As you know, Article 107. The Rules of Procedure prohibits speakers from insulting other MPs. I am extremely offended by the fact that the President of the Assembly of People's MPs is calling it malignant...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8331	I'm sorry, Miss Jerkov, I'll give you your time if I have to. You were not told by the President of the National Assembly, at this point a fellow MP spoke to you. That's what you need to know. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8332	You're right. I was not approached by a fellow MP, but by a fellow MP, Maja Gojkovic. I am extremely offended as a fellow member of the People's Parliament by its exposure that some MPs here are maligned because at the session, or I don't know when, he imagines that we should have talked about the Assembly budget, except here now, because at the session of the Administrative Committee, where we should have talked about it, we didn't have the opportunity to do so because of the obvious intention of the SNS to cover up what was happening in the previous days in the National Assembly and because of the obvious intention of the SNS to choose between the competent Serbia, the dignity of the National Assembly, on the one hand, and fellow MP Marijan Rističic, a fellow MP, Marijan Risticevic, who was also head of the Parliament, as well as other MPs, excluded from the session. So, there was no way to talk about the budget of the National Assembly where it was meant to be spoken... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8333	I don't understand. You've already entered the line, colleague Jerkov. But, let me answer you, colleague... (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: By Business, Article 107.) The 107th was now a short time. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: So what? I didn't do it by article 107, and it's absolutely different from the previous injury. I will break the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I report for the injury which is different from all until now. Wait until I speak to my colleague Jerkov. So, co-worker Maja Gojkovic presented her position, and as for Parliament's dignity and whether it was violated, the problem is that there is no consensus among the MPs when someone outside this hall starts to demean and insult the work of the MPs and the work of the National Assembly. It was often left only to the president of the National Assembly to take care of it and to have no solidarity with his opposition colleagues. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8334	Gentlemen, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has injured the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107, arguing that some united opposition has been formed here. There is no SRS involved in the joint opposition here, and you, in a coalition with the SPO Vuk Draskovic, with New Serbia Velimir Ilic, and you have introduced the MPs to the National Assembly, although long ago the Serbian people have thrown them into the waste of history. I ask you to intervene every time, there is no united opposition here. There is only a revolution for violating the Rules of Procedure and making it impossible for MPs to speak at the session of the Administrative Committee. None could speak, not even the MPs of the regime could speak. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And you were, so you know? ) Warn this clamp not to speak to me this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8335	Mr. Seselj, I'm sorry you advertised a member of the Rules of Procedure who was already the subject of advertising... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: This was not the subject of advertising. Wait a minute. According to Article 103, you should have done so while Mr. Martinović, i.e. Right after his exposure. Meanwhile, a colleague named Gojkovic spoke, and a colleague spoke... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I called all the time, but she ran in front of me, I didn't want to interrupt her. All right. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP Sasa Radulovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8336	Replica, not by amendment, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8337	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8338	I have the right, all the opposition has been mentioned several times, both by MP Martinovic, and by Member Gojkovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8339	You don't have the right to a replica, we're done. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I'd give you my word on the Rules of Procedure if you had an electronic application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8340	First of all, he's not applying to the electronic system of violations of the Rules of Procedure, which, the chairman, you know, but by raising the Rules of Procedure, I have to criticise you. Secondly, I criticise you, you do not apply Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. You're either the chairman or you're not? Either you allow the opposition's MPs to hold a session or any of us will be taken away or you will apply a strict Rules of Procedure. So when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, it must be spoken strictly where the chairman can only harm the Rules of Procedure and the essence of a member. So you've seriously violated this Rules of Procedure. I won't ask you to vote on it, but you can't let the MPs talk now about something that was ten days ago. So either be the real chairman or don't run the session, it doesn't matter, there's enough of us, there's the vice president and I. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place, who spoke, Maya, of what was ten days ago? I often stand before MPs when they are threatened and there is a minority, because I want to defend them. But this time they're MPs who want to talk about the minority budget, and much louder are those who won't talk. Please establish order and apply measures. Whenever a person reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure and does not talk about it, under Rule 27, you are required to apply measures and take two minutes away from them. That hurts, but only then do they want to talk about the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8341	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8342	Mr. Arsic, article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, that no one should throw, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. And you were obliged, Mr. Arsic, to warn Alexander Martinovic, who constantly dropped Professor Vojislav Seselj. You heard it, it was obvious, and it just shows that biggest problem in the National Assembly, which is the double arches being applied. It is a fact that even you, even this nascaradic Rules of Procedure, are not able to interpret it properly, nor are you able to interpret it in the same way as all of them. We have just heard from the president of the National Assembly that only the chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure. I haven't heard any more nonsense in a long time. If so, why do you make warnings to the messengers of the people? When someone does something, you take it nice and say it to the chairman. The problem is, you can't do what you want. Now that you had to give me your word, you reset the system, because I was registered before Maja Gojkovic, and you gave the word to her, yes, and I was forced to re-apply. So, what system, if you can reset it if necessary and give the word to whoever you want, to say – register again? Then create a system that will be adequate, to see if we have answered the word or to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not to force us to wave to this Rules of Procedure, because otherwise you say, we did not know why you were answering, and then you made us ignorant because we are allegedly not in the system, but we were waving at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8343	Two minutes, Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, if you asked me to respond and give Mr. Martinovic a warning, make sure I do it next time, but I will... (Inea Sarovic, from the place: I did not ask for it, no. ) You said: "to warn him", but every time you do the same thing, I will do it, and you know that you are more active than my colleague Martinović. We continue to work on the amendments. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8344	Dear Chairman, Article 104(1). So, if the name and the name of the MPs or his function are directly mentioned, this misreads his exposure... I'm sorry, can you secure the order? So Article 104(1), which clearly regulates when an MP has the right to replication. Mr. Martinovic directly mentioned Mr. Bosko Obradovic and misread his presentation. Our fellow MP, Maja Gojkovic, also directly addressed Bosko Obradovic, not mentioning his name, but mentioning his presentation, misread his presentation. In this case, Article 104 gives the MP, in this case to my colleague Mr. Bosko Obradovic, the right to replicate both Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Gojkovic. I don't think there's really any need to raise tension. The debate went perfectly normal during. So, they, people, made their argument, misread the presentation of the MP Bosko Obradovic, directly mentioned the name of the MP Boško Obradovic. I don't see anything questionable about a man getting what he belongs to in the Rules of Procedure. So, Article 104. Please, let's not violate the Rules of Procedure, let's have a normal discussion. I really don't see why you'd raise tensions, the debate goes through one normal time, and I don't see the need for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8345	Some MPs have imagined that it is enough to tell someone your name and name and gain the right to replication. Well, it's not like that. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: That's what the Rules of Procedure says. E, you see, whether someone is misread or not, the chairman decides, not you. So please let me continue to run the session. By amendment, MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8346	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to the amendment. This amendment is in fact an amendment to the Committee on Budgetary and Finance of the Republic of Serbia. When different political parties proposed their candidates to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, I suppose they suggested the best, because this is a narrow professional issue. With this amendment, the Committee on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs from that committee, on the Committee, no one voted against, nor in its discussion in any way found that this amendment was not good. It says -- the Serbian Parliament should join fiscal consolidation and spend as much money in 2017 as the Serbian Parliament spent in 2015 and 2016, means no more, the same, and that will be enough for the normal functioning of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, MPs in the Committee on Budgets, of course, are for this amendment. If we ask Serbian citizens to take full care of public finances in difficult economic times, then I am extremely inappropriate to ask that in 2017, we increase public expenditures stemming from taxes and other fiscal incomes paid by Serbian citizens for us, and that we impose rules that they save because someone in the last 10.50 years owed us more. That's not what we're supposed to do. There may be MPs who think they should spend more, spend on the burden of Serbian citizens. Members of the SNS and other political parties who have members in the Committee on Budgets said – we propose an amendment and we reduce, i.e. we keep spending on 2015 and 2016. What's the matter? I don't want to comment politically. There are different political views. Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS will not kick anyone out of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there will be elections or there will be no elections, and Serbian citizens will say who they are and what they will vote for. The opposition should exist in the republic's parliament, it's nothing controversial, but I think that fear is present because only after six months of the republic's elections, probably they know something more, rating someone too small to be able to stay in this parliament. As long as the SNS has a majority in this parliament, it will insist on fiscal consolidation and black zero in Serbia's public finances, to spend as much as we have. If we ask that of everyone in the state of Serbia, then it is an example of the Republic's parliament to show it in our case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8347	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8348	I thank you, President. Indeed, the SPS parliamentary group does not see any single reason not to support what was the position of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. If rationalisation and savings have led us to have a very good budget in the debate now, which we will certainly adopt in the voting day, then there is no single reason why the Assembly should not join such a concept and, as part of what rationalisation and savings implies, continue precisely in the spirit of such a concept with such rationalization. If there are no arguments, and it is obvious that there are no arguments that in any way reduce the earnings of employees in the Assembly, that in any way any damage or reduction of rights, or even the belongings of MPs, if there are no arguments, and there are no arguments, that in any other way the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is at stake, then what is the problem. There is absolutely no reason to argue, in fact, that the Committee's position is not supported. That is why the SPS and the SPS parliamentary group undoubtedly support such an amendment, and not only supports it, but will also insist on contributing to the savings to continue with both financial consolidation and a more successful and efficient work of finance in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8349	Just a little intervention. The amendment was accepted by the government and became an integral part of the bill. We won't even vote. Bosko Obradović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8350	There are also many reasons why this amendment should be rejected and there it would agree with Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who said in her statement that this amendment should be rejected. In fact, you're not saving anything, because you're increasing the government budget of the Republic of Serbia by a billion and 600 million. So don't lie to the citizens of Serbia anymore, to save, you would cut the government budget of the Republic of Serbia. No, you are increasing the government budget of the Republic of Serbia by a billion and 600 million, and you are playing savings in the positions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The chairman himself says parliament is in very poor shape after 5 October 2000. We agree, but in your government, there's half the DOS that destroyed this parliament. Ask Rasim Ljajić to make it up to you. So don't accuse us, who didn't burn this Parliament, because those who burned sit with you in the government. You're the top of the DOS, half your DOS is in the government. Don't talk about the new DOS anymore, you're DOS. You're the top of DOS. Let go of those stories. Another important thing, why the chairman didn't schedule a college of the National Assembly. She invited all the heads of parliament to consider the state of parliament, to see problems in the parliament building, to all advocate a larger budget, that parliament indeed becomes what it is necessary. I haven't spoken for a moment, and I won't talk about the salaries of the MPs, even though they are at least in Europe. I was talking about employees' salaries in the National Assembly. Nineteen thousand dinars, our cleaning lady, 25 thousand dinars, our fellow driver. What kind of pay is that? Why is it that only employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not have an increase in their planned salaries in 2017? What are you talking about? What is the picture of the state if employees have less than 200 euros in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's salaries. What are you talking about? What kind of savings? Why don't you save in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but you give the government a billion and 600 million more? And how many employees work at the National Assembly? More often than Alexander Wolfie. Because when we leave at midnight from the National Assembly, the cleaners stay until four o'clock in the morning to clean this house, and then wait for the first bus at four o'clock in the morning to go home, and the next day they come back on the second shift at half past two. Now, that's what certain people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do, which is how you reduce the allocations for the prizes. So that's your attitude towards state administration employees, who you've reduced your salary by 10% in time, and now you don't raise their salaries even though people work overtime whenever we work overtime here. It is my appeal to you, you are saving in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not pretend to save in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let the government show their savings first, then ask others for their savings. And that's what the citizens of Serbia here are hearing for the first time now, and that's what hurts you. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the great savingser, Aleksandar Vukic, gave himself a new billion and 600 million dinars, pumped himself into the government of the Republic of Serbia. He spends our money in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not saving, and he wants to save in the National Assembly and in the employees of the National Assembly. Now, that can't be. I am pleased that you have admitted that you, Madam Chairman, are directly to blame for this reduction in the budget of the National Assembly and for the further humiliation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8351	I'll look for a replica, I just need one of the vice presidents, please I don't have one. You're not the vice president, I don't know where the Faith Radeta is today and why she's not doing her job. I'm so sorry. So, I'm looking for a replica and I'm asking that it be recorded in the stenograms as soon as the vice president gets here to replace me. You can't, you don't know the Rules of Procedure, tragically. So I'm certainly going to rephrase to you for this insult you've caused me and the lie, that I'm saying something I didn't say. The word has Alexander Martinovic. I can't give you my word while they're yelling, while everyone's looking at the same time. You're looking for a word by amendment? We are now talking about Parliament's dignity, but obviously there is a tendency that no one will be dealing with the fundamental dignity of parliament, but by yelling at the president and the chairman, we will discuss the budget. And I'm taking up all the groups' time, so you know, that's the rules, and you're saying whatever you want in the context of the amendment, because I can't influence that anymore. If you're going to talk nonsense, talk nonsense, but you're wasting your time, and in particular, we're going to hear very little about the amendment, I'm aware.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8352	Risking getting a warning, Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm going to say that Bosko Obradovic is expressing himself in the words of a semi-literate bastard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8353	I must give you my notice. You're aware of that, and I really need to give you a warning, I need to have the same criteria for everyone. You know, I punished Zoran Zivkovic at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8354	I'm aware of that. If I may just say, therefore, if someone is a new DOS, then it is Bosko Obradovic who was on the DSS list, who was the leader of DOS on 5 October 2000. And who set fire to this National Assembly and today there are burning marks as well as to you because the president of the National Assembly, tell me the gentlemen of DOS and the new and old, where there are dozens of art paintings from the National Assembly, chairs, books and other furniture that were taken away on October 5, 2000. And you, Mr. Obradovic, are such an expert on the budget that you can't tell the difference between the money that the state gives for the subsidies for hiring new workers from the money we've intended for health care. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, mentioned in every sentence, because you can't say anything else, you've learned twenty sentences by heart in which in 150 places is mentioned Alexander Vukic. You can't read numbers. You can't make a difference that's evident, that more state money is out for health than for subsidies. That's what the Prime Minister clearly showed you. Don't worry about your salary, there'll be money for your salary. It's not your salary. You will also have salaries for the congregation restaurant. You'll have everything and coffee and water, nothing will be denied. Do not make any mistakes and insult the SNS parliamentary group, insult a party that has received more than half the support in the elections when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, what does the government budget mean to you? Come on, please, explain that to me. First time I've heard of that category, the government budget. I don't know how big that government budget is either. You have no idea what you're talking about. The only thing you hide as a snake is that you are the DOS, and with this DOS you were gathering, and when you were about to enter the National Assembly, you were not disgusted with Bojan Pajtic, or Cedomir Jovanovic, or Sasa Radulovic, or Sanda Raskovic Ivić and so on. Then DOS was good for you. Then you were the good foreign ambassadors who brought you here to the National Assembly. You are now the greatest Serb in the world, the greatest hero. If you can spit on Alexander Vukic, if you can tell the truth 100 times, and if you can swear to me dead father at a press conference, where I explain what happened at the board's session. And now you think we're all going to be scared because a new DOS has appeared. I don't care if a new DOS showed up. We don't want to keep quiet about your lies and your lies and your insults. This is a good budget. This is a budget that is in favour of the citizens of Serbia. When we hear from you something better, I'll agree with that. With the nonsense, with the lies, I will never agree with the unknown, and we will always fight against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8355	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. I'm giving the replica to Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Rules of Procedure. ) (Nemanja Sarović, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I beg you for peace. Hold on, everybody's gonna get a word, please. Just be patient, easy. The minister's been waiting an hour, we haven't spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8356	Thank you. I will patiently wait for the passions to quiet down a bit and the opposition MPs to start talking about the draft budget, not the violations of the Rules of Procedure, because the violations of Serbian citizens really cannot live and can't expect to improve neither the draft budget nor their lives. So, if this is the strongest we can hear today and insults at the expense of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic at the expense of leaders who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, such as Mr Rasim Ljajic and others called here in one of the discussions, then well, then that speaks a lot about those who criticise today's budget and us who participated in the amendment proposal. The amendment, in order for the citizens to understand, has already been adopted by the government and that amendment has become an integral part of the bill. And all these discussions that we have on this amendment are allowed, but they have no purpose whatsoever, because it has become an integral part of the bill and will only be voted on at the end of the session when we adopt or do not adopt this budget. As for the DOS burning this assembly, my deep opinion is yes, the DOS is on fire and DOS is the worst thing that has happened in multiparliamentary Serbia. And ours is now to try in this term, while I am chairman, to correct this material damage. I'm not talking about the political, material, to find 100 and some pictures of Konjević, Lubardo and others, which no one had previously thought of during DOS rule, and even Interpol had not reported any damage, these enormous material damages, to find sculptures, and to influence the conscience of those people who were caught by the events before 5 October entered this parliament, not knowing why they were brought to burn down this building. Indeed, I do not allow insults to my account because I proudly participated with a group of MPs in saving 400 million that we do not need to function at this time. As far as employees are concerned, yes, employees will have an increase in salaries to the extent that the budget envisions an increase in wages for the public sector, and he knows, perhaps the one who criticised this budget, but I want the wrong picture I got my time back, 'cause you were yelling when I was trying to talk. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: How long does the replica last?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8357	Yeah, you got a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8358	I know, they know and I ask you, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 112 of the break, to return to discuss the budget, because that is what Serbian citizens expect of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8359	Thank you. Since I estimate that we do not currently have the conditions for normal functioning of the Assembly, I am determining in accordance with Article 112 of the 10-minute break, so that we can agree and continue in a civilized way to discuss it. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8360	We can continue in a quieter tone now and discuss the budget. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: By amendment. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: After the previous amendment, I responded. You know what 112 means. - Peace in the Hall of Rijeka has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: After the previous amendment, I responded. ) Does the MP Bosko Obradovic want to speak? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: After the previous amendment, I responded. I'm communicating with you. I can't communicate with everyone. You're not in the system because we're being blocked by other MPs. I'll erase them now. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: After the previous amendment, I responded. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8361	The President-in-Office, if I understand the opposition's colleagues correctly, they complain that they have not received word according to the previous amendment, and you have moved on to the new amendment. Can we make it right or what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8362	Okay, then no one. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8363	Very interesting how violence against the work of MPs is carried out. I have to protest for that, Madam Chairman. When the debate was in principle, I had a debate with the minister about the revenue side of the budget, saying it was unrealistic. This amendment refers specifically to excise duties. You've predicted an increase in tax revenues on fuel excises by about eight billion dinars. At that time, I also noted, and now that Serbia's fuel is the most expensive in the region and that Serbian citizens pay one of the most expensive fuel prices, safely and in Europe, and I really don't see any room for additional eight billion dinars to be provided on fuel excises, given the changes that have occurred in the world. You know very well that you were lucky that the previous four years the price of fuel was at a historic minimum for certain political reasons. However, now with the new agreements between Russia and OPEC, with the strengthening of the dollar and the arrival of Trampa to power in America, it is logical that this will change, that the fuel price will rise. Does this mean that you'll raise excises in that case, so if we have a rise in fuel prices, the price of gasoline, the price of diesel will go to the sky under the clouds? How do you think the citizens of Serbia pay for that? How much is that gonna pull the inflation costs? Or you've unrealized this eight billion increase, because that's exactly what we're telling you. So it's really impossible to expect an additional eight billion on gas excises in this situation. I'm really sorry about the noise in the O.R., but we can't communicate normally, and the chairman obviously doesn't react, so my amendment in that direction is directed. Do you really think that these additional eight billion can be provided, given the already expensive fuel and where do the citizens of Serbia pay for it? Generally, this whole budget, I said maybe that budget is ideal, as Alexander Vukic says, but I'm not sure that citizens can survive it. That's the whole point. So, these 1,093 billion dinars will mostly be paid by Serbian citizens, and they no longer have a place to provide those funds and cannot survive it. This budget looks more like an UPPR than a budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8364	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8365	Thank you very much. Of course it doesn't have to be accepted, and I have to admit it's completely unusual to even discuss something that isn't written right. It's not even written so it can be accepted at all. If he failed to notice, the promoter received a well written response from the government, this is not at all in line with the legal system, which also reflects the nature of everything proposed. This is just a chance for us to listen to political speeches here again for two minutes, for what? Advertising a new coalition, a new joint DOS or whatever they're already called in their latest version. Well done, but ladies and gentlemen, there are press conferences, joint myths, etc., all that is not the House of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8366	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8367	Your Honor, I believe you were injured a few minutes ago by a member of Rules of Procedure 158 who is talking about a debate in the particulars. You did not comply with this article to ensure that all MPs spoke about the amendments on the agenda. We had an example last week of how your party colleague, Mr Martinovic, did on the Committee on Administrative Affairs, where he didn't give a word to any MP to speak, and when a budget was adopted by the Committee of the only responsible for the adoption of the Assembly budget. As a consequence of the lack of this debate, we had an amendment to the Finance Committee which changes the budget of the Assembly, which is completely inappropriate and contrary to the law, and in some line is not in the right mind, because the same people, almost the same people, and certainly from the same parties voted once for this draft budget, and then voted for an amendment that changes the budget of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8368	What does that mean to you in your right mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8369	That means there's got to be a debate here, if we're going to adopt quality proposals. You must comply with the Rules of Procedure, this Rules of Procedure which you have not brought and which you do not love so much, but you must adhere to it, to ensure everyone who answers the word to speak, because it is the only way to correct in one democratic debate everything that is wrong with this budget. You make it impossible, you violate the Rules of Procedure only with the desire to shorten this debate and to run this budget through the Assembly. I ask you to allow every MP from the opposition or position to speak, to say what he has about every amendment and to adopt the best solution, and to have the same archaic towards everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8370	I couldn't agree more with you. I will not punish you, however, because you have otherwise said the same thing that Aleksandar Martinovic said. So you said we weren't in our right mind. Thank you so much for that and for all the MPs you've sent. That's very nice of you to say. Same insult, no matter what you belong to a party located in DOS or a minority party. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: No DOS. Don't be afraid. No DOS. All right, all right. Thank you, that's what you said. Secondly, the President is here to use the entire Rules of Procedure, and Rule 27, and Article 112, and Article 104. (Marko Djurisic, from place: I 158.) It's up to the president to lead. I will not tolerate seeking words by force, shouting, demeaning parliament and the chairman himself, anyone. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: How is shouting if someone presses the button? () Whether or not I have hurt the Rules of Procedure will decide the tide if you ask to vote on it. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Of course I'm looking. ) This is how the Rules of Procedure is implemented, no different. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Only by voting, who has the majority. And time, as long as you want, because we're only on the third amendment. Don't worry, you have time to talk about the budget. (Marko Djurisic, from the place:...) It's not only the right of the majority, it's the law. ) That's right, but your microphone is on and your entire comment is very well heard while you expect the Rules of Procedure to give you a proper answer. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I do not turn it on or off, you do it.) I can't do it. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, although you haven't said anything at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8371	Thank you, President. I'm advertising an injury to a 127 member who's talking about our electronic system, as well as the other members who refer to it, because it's not the only time in the Rules of Procedure that he's mentioned. This is specifically about identifying us as MPs. Now I don't know if you've seen that we've been signed up for the word that we're talking about an amendment to the Finance Committee, or if by reputation of a colleague of Martinovic, you've decided to ignore these demands. I certainly know about myself, and I hear the other messengers around me speak. I was reported to be talking about the amendment of the Finance Committee before counterpart Martinovic applied for his word. I don't know what happened, you didn't let us talk about that assembly budget at the board meeting, you don't let us now, so simply, if the electronic system doesn't work, let us go some alternative way, so you see that we're applying for a word, because I don't want to believe that you didn't want to give us a word. I believe that you have not seen that we have been reported, because otherwise, Mrs Gojkovic, we would have a much bigger problem than one amendment, and you say the rest is still, I don't know, no matter how many amendments are left, it's important that we have been declared to speak of one amendment, and that you ignored that request, which, in accordance with no member of the Rules of Procedure, allow, you have no right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8372	Yes, it is. Thank you. So we don't have an electronic system, so I don't know what you're really talking about this time. We have a conference system here, very old, very bad, but it works. I assume that's what you're talking about, not the electronic system. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. We don't have that. So when there's chaos in the O.R., I have the right to apply certain members. We are now on the third amendment, and the truth is working and the public is working, the Committee on Administrative Affairs has been held, the amendment was proposed the first one, to remind you, was adopted, no one wanted to discuss it on that committee which was a few days ago and everyone voted for this amendment. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: he wanted to. That's because of the public. So all MPs present on the Committee voted to accept the first amendment to Article 1 submitted by Aleksandra Tomic. That's what the truth does, I don't want to comment on the rest. Dr Dusan Vujovic, on Article 1, the applicant was Srdjan Nogo, to remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8373	Thank you very much. After an hour and a half, I got a chance to say something. We agreed to the proposed amendment, it was proposed by the Administrative Committee, it was on the Committee, which discussed the amendments yesterday... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: It is not that amendment. Let me say it. I have the right to use my time, I haven't had a chance an hour and a half to say anything. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I know, you run the... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8374	Please, Ambassador, don't hold the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8375	Why are you interrupting me now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8376	Ambassador Marko Djurisic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8377	Am I interrupting? Are you the chairman here?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8378	I'm asking Minister Vujovic to ignore it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8379	Just for information, I'm explaining why we agreed to the amendments. We agreed with the amendment because the 2015 budget was 1,781 million for parliament, for the Assembly, in 2016 1,867 million, and after this amendment, for 2017 3,075 million, a billion and more, a billion and 200 more. We thought it was a sufficient framework for everything that was planned. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Because of the election. Let me just speak, please, don't wave books. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: It is the Rules of Procedure. You're distracting me as I speak. The third amendment proposed by Srdjan Nogo, we could not accept, for formal reasons, because an increase in deficits was proposed, where no alternative reduction measure was proposed. We can open up a debate about how we design every element of income, and your excise resolutions, obviously show that in the future we can have a much more complex and better discussion on the subject. At this point, if you don't propose a parallel measure that keeps us in the planned deficit, we can't formally accept it. That's the only reason. Otherwise, we can talk about how the excise market reacts. Right now, we're only planning an excise indexation according to the law, according to inflation. By the way, I accept your concern and complexity of designing excises in conditions where the prices of derivatives are unstable in the world, and therefore with us, that basic part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8381	Thank you. Dear President, I'm advertising Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being carried out. This amendment has passed, and you had to warn Minister Vujovic that he cannot explain and defend the amendment that has passed. Please have the same arches for everyone. At least you had to remind Minister Vujovic, and here I advertise and Article 108, that when an MP raises his Rules of Procedure, that means that he advertises the same. We can't be bothered by the minister to put down "this book", it's not a book, it's a Rules of Procedure, and this is a rule in the National Assembly, which takes a long time, that an MP when he wants to advertise it raises "this book" as you call it, i.e. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8382	Thank you. Don't yell at the minister either. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I am a child from the village, so I cry.) Because MPs yell at ministers when they try to say something after an hour and a half. That's true. I'm not here to defend him, I have no mercy for the ministers, believe me. That's what they know. This minister was in conflict with me in the last term. I don't know if you were an MP, but the ministers know. So I have to be on his side after an hour and a half, he said something for 1.15 minutes. Leave him to defend the draft budget or let them know it's not necessary. Srjan Nogo, per member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8383	Replica, I apologize, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Eagle Replic Mr. Orlic made me... [[Vladimir Orlic, from the place: No replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8384	He's been discussing the amendment, discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8385	He mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8386	Let me run the session. When you're chairman, however you like, you'll have a session. By amendment, the Rules of Procedure excuse me. Here you go, Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 109 of Item 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. In fact, the previous speaker, who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, was the one who dropped the minister while he explained from a professional angle why some amendments were accepted and some did not accept. It's the right of the minister to speak here. I appreciate Mr Vujovic for not performing at all for political reasons. It's one thing when he throws himself at political opponents and threatens the freedom of speech of political opponents by those who have turned their backs on me. They kind of look smarter off my back. It's one thing to throw itself at political opponents, and the other thing is when the minister is being distracted, especially because our citizens need to know what's changing in the budget, what's the current budget reserve, what's the emergency, what's good when 400 million transfers...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8388	Be kind, only if we have options.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8389	... to current budget reserves, although otherwise disrupt speakers. So, ma'am, I suggest that from time to time, I appreciate your patience with the opposition MPs, those who spit at me, insult me, and then turn their backs on me, as if I've done something wrong, that from time to time you apply a member of the opposition, and give me a warning, not when they throw us, not when they're distracting us, but when they're distracting the minister, because it leaves certain consequences because our citizens are the most modest that they can hear about the budget, they can hear from the minister. It is therefore inadmissible that in the National Assembly groups of MPs all the time while the minister performed the cast, it was Mr. Djurisic, who made it out of Palanko. So they were throwing all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8390	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8391	And that's why I'm not asking you to vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8392	I'll answer you. He's still a previous MP, so don't yell at me, my people, let's be people, let's be MPs. Article 103 of the previous MP merely stated item 1, was not recognised in paragraph 3, that he should not throw, shout, etc. So I was tolerated because of his youth and inexperience and ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, and next time, I'm sure I won't be so tolerant. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8393	I finally get the word. I've been reporting on the previous amendment, too, so you haven't given me your word. With this amendment, we practically transferred the funds from the subsidies, put them on pensions, 20 billion, so that the pensioners were given back what the state had taken away and the rest, instead of the gift subsidy, put them in the place of funding where the state would then give all those companies that it wanted to give the gift, or the subsidy, could, if there was a obligation to give credit and to establish a mortgage on the property so that it could return those funds. We think these subsidies are wrong. Also, looking at the draft budget, we have in the government's budget, and that is, of course, point 3, we have three unnecessary Deputy Prime Ministers, four and three unnecessary Ministers without portfolios. So, practically for them together, these unnecessary vice-presidents and unnecessary ministers without portfolios should be allocated a total of 530, over 530 million dinars, which is one unnecessary cost. These ministers should be removed from the government, also vice-presidents should not have double budgets. Once, in his cabinets, say, the interior minister has his own budget in the cabinet, and another as vice president, so the foreign minister also, and we have our favorite ministers without portfolios that have 160 and 225 million dinars. One portfolio-free minister, Krkobic, for regional development and public enterprises and another, vice-president for demographics and population policy, means 160 million dinars and 225 million dinars. This tells us how much the government is actually saving, or not saving, and on the other hand it takes people employed in the Assembly, who work for more than 20 hours, often uninterrupted, to cut wages and keep them below 200 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8394	Let me just extend my time of work. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 18 hours, for the purpose of bringing the acts from the agenda of this session within a certain legal time limit. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8395	We cannot accept the proposal for this amendment, although it would be advisable to start a discussion on subsidies, efficiency, the consistency of the use of budget funds for subsidies. The reason is that the changes are proposed only in the first part of the budget relating to the twilight, and there are no ways to implement it in Article 8. Secondly, because one reduction is proposed that would lead us directly, as we have in the debate at all, to difolt. So you're suggesting not to pay interest based on activated guarantees, you've reduced them to a thousand dinars. That's absolutely unacceptable. That's what it says here in the proposal. If the proposal isn't well written, it's not my fault. So that's what it says here in front of us - interest payments based on the activated guarantees of thousands of dinars, subsidies to thousands of dinars, subsidies to the Railways, thousands of dinars, subsidies to the roads of thousands of dinars, subsidies in the tourism area of thousands of dinars and other subsidies a thousand. There are four billion cultural subsidies and agricultural subsidies of 37.6 billion on the basis of your proposal. Therefore, this without any explanation of a clearer and more detailed timetable to change the whole subsidy policy and how to abolish subsidies here that include participation in loans, to which we have committed ourselves, could not be accepted for purely technical reasons. I take this yours as an invitation to open a debate about nature, the way, the size and meaning of the use of subsidies. That, yes, but such a proposal, technically, we can't accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8396	Thank you. First Minister, Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8397	In his presentation, a colleague, Vujovic first touched these elements related to subsidies. I want to comment on that segment about... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: How many government people can talk? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8398	They've got two minutes, he hasn't used it. I'm taking care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8399	I want to point out that it's for me and as a minister, but also, like, say... Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Man. )......................................................................................................... Man, you're right, I thank my colleague Sarovic, it is really unacceptable to question the budgets of two ministers without portfolios that should first of all do a really serious and significant job. Serbia faces one of the biggest problems today, it is the problem of demographics. Every year, we run out of towns or the middle of 38 thousand inhabitants. So, the budget of the Minister without a portfolio that has yet to define the priorities of the state in this area, in that policy, I do not think it is unnecessary, but I think it is small, but whatever the small one is is a significant step and one indicator and a signal that the state will thus be far more serious to deal with in the next period. As we must deal with even development, and as we must deal with hundreds of public enterprises across Serbia that need to be introduced into some framework. So, to me, this is also political, but also essential, absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8400	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8401	I thank you, President. The SPS parliamentary group does not support or accept as the actual basis of this amendment, not only for the reasons presented by the ministers Vujovic and Antić, but also because it seems to me that a dangerous abuse of employees is being committed here, especially in the Assembly. I think it's a very bad message to the citizens of Serbia. Together, we are all aware of very small profits in the public sector and these are not just employees' earnings in the Assembly, especially those who do hygiene work. Small earnings with the same jobs and education are small earnings of professional staff doing similar jobs both in the judiciary and in all other areas of the public sector. What makes only one group of employees stand out here and somehow make dangerous discrimination? The government of the Republic of Serbia has done much to earn and gradually increase through this budget in the coming year. It's something that deserves support anyway. I therefore appeal to all MPs who should be committed to their work and have a responsibility for the spoken word, to make sure that they do not insult employees in the public sector, not only in this assembly, but anywhere they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8402	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8403	Dear President, I would agree with much of what the previous speaker, counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic, said. What is the essence and what is the intensity of both the government and the majority of us here in parliament, especially we in the SDPS insist on being in all institutions, organisations, especially in the public sector the same salary for the same work. It is therefore very important that we discuss the payment law next year, in order to balance these salaries and to ensure that all those working in certain positions are not disbalanced when it comes to salaries. We are even more than public sector wages and their level of concern for private sector wages, because I think we can all agree here that without economic growth, without GDP growth, without investment growth, we cannot expect any growth in the private sector in particular. Of course, this process should go parallel, but what's most important for our country is that the last environment is better, that we have the more aggressive employment in the private sector, that we free up space for the private initiative, and that's the only way and the only model that pays in the public sector is the better, they become more. Of course, the pay grade law should provide what we "condio son qua non" working relations and relationships that should rule on a flexible labour market, which is the same profit for the same job, which unfortunately we do not now, but I think in the coming year we will vote that law and that they will all be equally paid for their work, with a fair and quality model of rewarding employees, in accordance with their contribution, functioning in the organisation of the institution, that they can be rewarded and that they can be additionally earned, which is also done here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it is mentioned. In any case, I think that this way we will come up with one balanced model and method of pay, and without the growth of the private sector, we cannot expect any excessive growth in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8404	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8405	I picked up the line...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8406	There is no replica, because only the views of all political groups have been expressed in relation to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8407	It was a distorted way of interpreting...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8408	You want the amendment or you don't want it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8409	It was a distorted interpretation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8410	Well done, you'll be president, I believe right away in a few months, and you'll be using Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8411	This is incorrect. This is really incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8412	I'll take it. And all the insults you have to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8413	I didn't say any insults. No offense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8414	Will you not? You don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8415	I was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8416	The replica has no basis. Article 104(3) does not have a basis. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Then by amendment. ) The word has Marian Risticevic, while you figure out if you want a replica or an amendment, so I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8417	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the citizens, I've come to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8418	Keep it down, please let the MP discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8419	If I can use this quieter topote to get out, not to be disturbed, and they still look smarter to turn back here. They can't spit on me, they can't curse me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8420	Please accept the amendment, be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8421	Well, I'm talking about the amendment, but they're always distracting me, and this is a way of distracting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8422	I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8423	So, according to the amendment, one economic gromada has proposed, the largest Serbia has after my fellow farmer, that subsidies in the Railways be reduced to 1,000 dinars. So, the citizens to know he himself suggested that poor people, and the most poor people travel by rail, that Mr. Minister knows, must pay the full economic price of tickets. So, yes, and so on with the small incomes that come more expensive to their jobs. He suggested reducing subsidies to the economy. So about him, he proposes to reduce the number of jobs, to push everything into bankruptcy, and about his economy is what we call a Lutheran economy. It's the economy of that kind-- you throw in the spring a couple of beads, and then you go to July to pick up a pig. I do not understand such an economic policy, regardless of what kind of economic cluster it is from the group “they have never had enough”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8424	Thank you very much. He wants an MP, Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8425	Thank you. First for the minister, I don't know, you've probably overlooked, there's a point in the budget, when I was doing a resource relocation, it's point 4) -- spending on the acquisition of financial assets, which is significantly increasing to 85 billion dinars. So what was proposed by the amendment is instead of the state just paying interest on guarantees that it gave to irresponsible public enterprises and other firms, let's say "Galenica", etc., actually turning it into a kind of loan and taking a mortgage on the property. Why is this important? These companies already have some creditors, and if the state comes in and saves the company, otherwise it would go bankrupt, which is the government's intention, so instead of giving them money to make the state appear as a trustee. I think it's domestic behavior. So I did not amend these obligations, but practically transfer them from the place where the gift is, to the place where the financial assets are purchased. I think it's better the state's behaviour, that it's the domestic behavior of the state. In all of this, of course, they found 20 billion dinars that would be transferred to the PIO Fund and thus virtually annul the anti-constitutional law of the government that kidnaps pensioners. Practically, this amendment is trying to show that it is possible to find money in the budget and that it is possible to return pensioners to be kidnapped and to make commitments that the state has. The second thing, as regards the government's budget, which has been increased by 1.6 billion dinars, I repeat, there are four vice-presidents and three ministers without portfolios that are completely unnecessary. For example, the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister already have a budget in the Foreign Minister's Office. Why the 24 million dinar budget within the government budget? Then, the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications - 17 million. Then, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister and the building minister - 34 million. Then again, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister – 29 million. Then we have a minister with no portfolio for demographics and population policy – 160 million and no portfolio in charge of regional development and public enterprises, Mr. Krkobic, 225 million dinars. These are completely unnecessary ministries without portfolios that do nothing, just cost the citizens of Serbia, because the issue of demographicism, the issue of introducing order in public enterprises, regional development is a question that all ministries are concerned with and then expect citizens to believe that by getting this money in fact, something improves in this area doesn't really deserve any comment. I repeat, the government is not saving anywhere where it should save, on itself, at the introduction of order and in fact knocks down the deficit exclusively by dragging her hand into the pockets of citizens and businesses. They gave up and thus reduced the deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8426	The first word is Minister Vujovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: How can you do it again.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8427	Only a short replica Because there is a direct exchange of views about the digits he has proposed in the amendment [[Marco Djurisic, from the place: How do we replica when we can't?]] He's got a replica. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: He did not get the replica.]] (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Well, it's not." )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8428	Please, the minister is not in charge of the session. She's being led by the chairman. And don't throw away the minister. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Then let the citizens know. ) What he says – replica or answer, please do not. So half of the messengers here who are called to the violation of the Rules of Procedure do not know the essence, and now you warn the Minister only to distract him. It doesn't make sense. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I remind you. Thank you. Here you go. Alexandra Jerkov, injury to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8429	I don't know what to advertise an injury if you don't hear the word - Rules of Procedure. Okay. Article 158, Mrs Gojkovic. You know how much in the discussion in the particulars of which we are currently in the position of a proposing representative has the right to speak. Proposer representative, Ministers Vujovic and Antić took advantage of the time that is available to the applicant to talk about each amendment, and if some rules apply to MPs here in the Assembly, emphasized, MPs of the opposition, since MPs are obviously not subject to the same rules, I ask you to apply these rules to the representatives of the promoter. If you ever estimate that for the sake of the exchange of arguments, you can sometimes break the Rules of Procedure, give a word to someone who would otherwise not have a right, it would be justified if you would do so in all situations, and you only do so when it comes to MPs of the ruling coalition and when it comes to a representative of the proposings and, of course, the chairmans do so when it comes to you and your need to speak beyond the rules, rules and Rules. So I ask you to apply the same rules to everyone, and I ask you to limit the proposing's representative to two minutes per amendment, as far as it is available to the Rules of Procedure to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8430	Thank you. According to an amendment to article 1, submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, Minister Vujovic spoke for 15 seconds. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: What about Minister Antic? ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done directly, and we will not consider this breach of the Rules of Procedure because it has not been done directly, and I will not repeat it, I will not share the time of two minutes. So far, they've used two minutes and twenty seconds since the hearing since 11:00 this morning. Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8431	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when you have no arguments, you run away. I'm reporting for the amendment because I tried to convince the economic gromada, the amendment's proposing to emulate its thinking with real production. So he didn't convince me, except that he only knows how to spend money, not how to make money. What he said about pensions, if we touch pensions with more money from the budget, then we'll have to take more money from citizens. They're not full of pensions like Rodney's witness chief Rodney Del Boy thinks. It is not pensioning from the budget, taking from citizens a grant from the budget, but the pensions are best filled with new production, new jobs, new contributions, and it has just done the opposite. He asked the amendment to reduce subsidies to the economy, thereby reducing employment money, thereby reducing the real charge of pension funds, health funds. He also suggested that subsidies to the Railways are reduced to cheaper transport of goods and passengers and workers, and thus directly that economic gromada is not for the real charging of pension funds, for the real increase of pensions, but rather he thinks that money is being printed, and money, ladies and gentlemen, is being earned. He's only used to spending, he's only used to reading, he's used to not planting, he's used to picking the cutest fruit in bankruptcy, and I'm once again offering him a TV duel on any television, to explain to the people the difference between the real economy, between production and its virtual economy, which is based only on consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8432	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'd ask the MPs to be serious and then don't mind me if they're not in the O.R., which I'll skip the amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am here.) How come I wasn't in the O.R.? Ambassador Marko Djurishic, you weren't in the O.R. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am in the hall.) How come I wasn't in the O.R.? There are cameras. Does Ambassador Goran Bogdanovic want to talk about the amendment? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Shame on you! Yes, I'm ashamed that you're making a mess of this assembly, that you're going out and you're not going to be there, and you know that... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How are you not ashamed? This is your real face. Shame on you! I hereby sentence you for your disrespect for Parliament and for the work of this House. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: For what? I tell you the sentence, I do not repeat it, because of your disrespect for parliament, for not being in the O.R., you come in line and then you run, and I have to wait, to stop the work of Parliament because of the choreography you're making here. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Get away from the debate. Shame on you! You're not even real for festivals, not for parliament. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: you should be ashamed. ) Thank you very much, MP, for telling me that I should be ashamed. I didn't expect anything else, and that's what Parliament's doing all this time, cursing my mother, to shame me, to be a scum and all that you have to say to me. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: You should be ashamed, how dare you lie? Thank you very much. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Who cursed your mother? ) Goran Jesic, your MP, Balša Bozovic, your MP. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Never in life!) ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: How can you lie? Who cursed your mother? ) Ambassador Marko Djurisic says the chairman lies, although it was all on all televisions. Please do not interfere with Parliament's work, in accordance with Article 103(3), do not disturb parliament. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You do not let us talk. Give me the right to speak, right to the word. Shame on you! That's a shame. So you don't even let Goran Bogdanovic speak? I appreciate that, that you're blocking Parliament's work. Ambassador, would you like to speak on the amendment of Goran Bogdanovic? But the bearer has to go first, if he wants to. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Rules of Procedure! You're not in the system. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the site: I am in the system. I ask Alexander Jerkov not to yell at me. Article 112, 30-second break, to appease the opposition MPs who yell at the chairman. It's really hard for me to run a session. What are you going to do to me now? ) Here, Marko Djurisic yells at me in the break – and what are you going to do now? What are you going to do to me? Be honest and tell the truth once. Shame on you! ) I ask the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party and all those who sit still and want to work, to wait calmly for this intention to pass through to discuss today's debate, please. Here, I have the right to address you as my colleagues and in my break. Please don't really react to this kind of behavior, let's let's see how far this goes. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What behavior? Shame on you! ) Here, a break has passed and I ask Ambassador Goran Bogdanovic, if he wishes, to explain his amendment. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8433	I've heard from the Rules of Procedure before I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8434	I'm asking Ambassador Milojicic not to yell at me. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Don't you see the Rules of Procedure? I really didn’t participate in the elections, and I didn’t get the trust of most MPs here so that someone from session to session would disrespect me and yell at me without talking about insults. That's not my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8435	Well, no one's disrespecting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8436	Don't tell me who raised the Rules of Procedure, and who didn't, shouting like we were in a Belgrade bar. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: then give us the word.) Don't act like one. You want to talk about the budget? The chairman, in accordance with Article 27, is headed by parliament. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you, emissaries of Alexander Jerkov. I'm sorry you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8437	Okay, did you give me your word or didn't you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8438	I can't give, MP, when I'm not given by your colleagues. Your coalition partners don't allow me to let MPs from the opposition speak, because the tendency here is not to talk about the budget, but to yell and make chaos...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8439	It is a tendency, but how much did you contribute, Madam President, to all of it? And you contributed to that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8440	Here, I see a picture of the MPs sitting here calmly, and here I see a picture of the shouting. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Serbian citizens also see it. Shame on you! Give us your word. No, you're not going to challenge me to give everyone a heads-up, because this is really amazing, this is not how it can be done. I can't give you my word. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Shame on you. ) Ambassador Marko Djurisic has another warning, I express it with full responsibility today. In front of Serbian citizens, I give a warning to Mark Djurisic, because I can't do anything else. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Because you don't give me your word, is that why you're warning me? Goran Bogdanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8441	May I now, Madam President? I think what's going on with my colleague Djurisic, I don't think you're absolutely right. Mr. Djurisic was first of all in the O.R. and I don't see why she didn't give him her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8442	Ambassador, you asked for the amendment, don't abuse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8443	I've been looking for the amendment and I'm saying it, but first of all as a colleague and as a friend, not only Mark Djurisic, but also here, keeping the Parliament's dignity, I can't say that Mr. Djurisic received a warning for no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8444	This is an abuse of what you've got for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8445	As far as the amendments are concerned, I have submitted Article 1 of the amendment to the Budget Law in order to in some way affect the deficit reduction. The amendment previously refers to an increase in the total revenue of the budget through an increase in the collection of other actions. By managing how we can increase the deficit while saving on other items in the budget, I have come to the analysis that in Serbia, around 400,000 tonnes of sodas and about 120,000 tonnes of fruit juice are spent annually. I won't talk here because I don't have enough time, how much sugar is harmful, about health, etc., but the trend in both the world and Europe is that countries are increasingly introducing or considering introducing this kind of taxation to prevent potential causes of various diseases in time. The introduction of a excise duty on sugar supplements contributes to the reduction of the consumption of all products, thereby increasing the consumption of fruit juices, which are healthy on good luck. However, it is obvious that this government does not take care of health or other things it organises primarily for the citizens of Serbia, but it is important to increase revenues to the government itself, while at the same time reducing the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We did hear, but really, Madam President, if I may have the other MPs here not to disturb when we speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8446	I ask MPs from the Democratic Party not to receive an MP, Goran Bogdanovic. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No word has been said. He looked in your direction three times. I get it completely, this side of the fly didn't fly. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Rules of Procedure! ) Miladin Ševarlic reported first to the Rules of Procedure. Are you staying on that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8447	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advocating a violation of Article 107, the dignity of the Assembly. Never in this assembly, since the first session to this day, have I abused the position of MPs, and you have discriminated against me today, as well as a good portion of those who behave politely in this House, only by apostrophe of MPs from the SNS and the SPS, and by neglecting all other MPs who behave correctly. Please, in the future, when you want to point out the correct behaviour of the MPs, do not do it exclusively in the party line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8448	Here, I point you out as a positive example, but you still belong to a parliamentary group that's causing big problems here to work for me. (Miladin Ševarlic, from the post: Dear President, please... Thank you very much. If you think I hurt you... (Miladin Ševarlic, from the post: Dear President, please, if you'll allow... This can't. This can't. Miroslav Aleksic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8449	The Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103 because you did not give the word to Mr Ciric, who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, and you were obliged to give it after the end of the term, or the address of the MP. On the other hand, you provoked the MPs of the opposition, Mr. Djurisic, by realizing he wasn't in the O.R. The man was in the O.R. the whole time. You called him and then you gave him two warnings. In doing so, two-thirds of the time has been used by you and your MPs since the beginning of this session. They are allowed everything, SNS MPs, as well as you, unlike us in the opposition, where you are challenging the lies, because you have told the truth that Mr Djurisic was not here, the reaction of opposition MPs. I ask you, since you, according to this Rules of Procedure, are obliged to take care of the order in the session, to understand that it is your role. It's not up to the opposition to bring order here to the session, it's up to you. I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and give it to the opposition and MPs as you give to the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8450	That's right, only, dear colleague, I punished the president of the SNS parliamentary group today, you didn't touch me, as much as I remember, because you're not interested in it at all, and it was allowed for your president of the parliamentary group to yell at me because he wasn't in the O.R. because he boycotted Marijana Risticevic, so when he heard his name, he started running towards the O.R. First he tried to sign up for the MP group of the former DSS, so when he couldn't, he started running toward the first and it's on tape. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Come on. ) Don’t tell me – “Come, ” since respect must be mutual. So, there's an abuse of the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, because we're not doing anything else. And I have to, since there hasn't been a direct injury, we're already out of line. Let me tell you that I'm taking away your group for two minutes, in accordance with Article 103 paragraph 8, because that's the only way to stop today's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because what you say as a breach of the Rules of Procedure has to be done directly. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: You gave the word to Ciric according to the Rules of Procedure. I gave my word to Chevarlich. I guess some time an MP who's a little bit more moderate doesn't answer often, has the same rights as you and Milojic, I guess. I suppose Ambassador Ševarlic may say something in this House some time, too, so I ask you to respect at least the MPs of your ranks, if not me, because you don't respect me at all. I'm used to it, and I'm obviously your target for something. I have no idea why, but we'll see. It will show the future politically. Here you go. You'll just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8451	I am advocating Article 108, Madam Chairman, to the order of the session of the old President of the National Assembly or his deputy, i.e. in this case, you. I think you're planning on dissipating Parliament's work on amendments this morning. I don't think it's fair for you to be punishing an adequate colleague of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8452	There's no direct injury, I'll stop you. No direct injury, section 103. Position 8, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8453	Yes, you said it yourself. You said it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8454	Article 103, Section 8, I'm taking two minutes because you're abusing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8455	It can't be two minutes, 'cause it's 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8456	I give you a warning for shouting at the chairman. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: 30 seconds have passed! I give you another warning because you yell at me. This will be parliament, there will never be a bar, in this assembly. When you gain citizens' trust, do whatever you want from Parliament, your right, you will have a majority. Thank you. Minister Dusan Vujovic, if he can get the word, will try to respond to MP Goran Bogdanovic. [[DJB Group applauds.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8457	Parliamentarian Goran Bogdanovic's proposal refers to the introduction of an excise on non-alcoholic beverages that would produce an effect of five billion dinars, thus reducing the deficit. We cannot accept this amendment solely because the Budget Law does not change excise policy, but it will be on the agenda of this Assembly of the Excise Act in a few days, and it will be an opportunity to propose this amendment. Thus, this will increase the inflow. Personally, I believe that non-alcoholic beverages, with the exception of water without added sugar and natural juices, are subject to excise duty. How much is it, exactly? So here I agree with you, I support it, but there are various stakeholders that can be against it. There'll be an opportunity to suggest it. Secondly, I want to take the opportunity to add to the previous amendment that has exactly the same first part, in the second part of Mr. Djurisic, to say that we have a policy long ago not to bind revenue to expenditure. So your second proposal to increase childcare is fine, but we don't tie incomes and expenses. Therefore, these are two separate proposals that should be proposed as such. Thank you very much. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Can I get the right to a replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8458	Replication to the presentation of Goran Bogdanovic or the minister? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Minister. Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8459	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you gave this explanation, but we have proposed this amendment precisely because a few days ago we have proposed a law on amendments to the Excise Act, where we are predicting the introduction of this excise. Then we thought that if we predicted creating some new income in 2017, that it should be seen in the budget and then seen and where to spend. If you say you don't practice commitment now, then there's a difference in the budget. So, that was why we had this intervention in this place, and our whole idea, and we're glad that you're here for that, so we have a bill on changing the ackiz law that needs to introduce a ten-dollar excise charge per litre for fruit juices, sweetened and water sweetened, coke and other drinks. The reason for this is the alarming health situation in Serbia. So, the appeal of the World Health Organization to all countries of the world is to introduce taxes and excise duties on these sweetened drinks because the world has an epidemic of obesity. The data in Serbia say that 21% of the population is obesity, 35% is pre-random. This obesity in a large number of cases leads to diabetes, 700,000 people in Serbia today suffer from diabetes and huge costs of the state. What we want through that law, and we're glad, I can't know that the government is going to propose, usually the Excise Change Act was with the budget, so we'd give the amendment there. We're going to give the amendment for sure, but we already have a bill. It means that it is exactly classified as it was done in Hungary, as it will be done in Ireland, as it has been done in Norway, as it has been done in Mexico since 2013, as it has been done in many countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8460	I thank you, MP, for looking for a replica. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8461	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see those who didn't serve the army know what a left-wing circle is. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am willing to vote in favour of this amendment, not to require a change of other laws, which is the Excise Act. So, I love that the opposition MP wants to increase revenues by five billion and I respect his will to believe in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the gentleman who proposed this amendment, because he believes the government will raise five billion more than she has promised. But I can't vote for the amendment because it requires a change in the excise policy that's regulated by the Excise Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8462	Thank you, MP. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8463	Please, I'll use those five minutes. The amendment was rejected by the Constitutional and Legislative Committee, or whatever it is called, as legally impossible without justification, so I doubt that argument. I'm allowing one small possibility that he's not really in line to perfection, and the reason for that is exactly the short term in which we had the opportunity to deal with this budget. What is the essence of this amendment? The change in policy and it is no trick, no achievement, is the attitude that I represent my New Party, which I think represents a lot of people in Serbia, which is to change Serbia's further path towards the future. What we have in the last seven, eight years, means, more than this ruling coalition lasts, that's the phenomenon of subsidies. It was introduced, and now it's raised to the highest possible negative level as the only way for foreign investors and domestics, but above all, to come to our country, to open businesses, to hire people. What's really going on? It happens that 10,000 euros per job get investors who start some kind of production, don't enter the quality of that production, make it the best possible, with the obligation to stay in the state and keep the company operating while subsidies continue. Two hundred, 250, 212 euros were calculated as an average salary in these companies. That means, if the investor gets 10,000 euros for one job, and the average salary in that job is 200, 215 euros, that means that the state, which is these same poor citizens, paid about four years' wages in advance, almost 50 in advance. We have, as I recall, a case called "Fiyata" where today's "Fiat" has no obligation to pay taxes and contribute to wages. The question is whether all these investors will stay in Serbia when the subsidy expires, when they spend that money they get. There's not a single legal, contractual or any other reason for them to stay here. Tomorrow, Macedonia, which is in the tenth place of that famous Duing Business List, where we boast that we are thirty-one or maybe tomorrow, in Belarus, privatisation begins. So, anywhere within 500 to 1,500 kilometers around us, it's possible that someone could offer better subsidies or some other better conditions and those investors would go there. If Serbia's economy can only advance through subsidies to new jobs, then we have no progress, be sure of that. That's not the way to a better future. To remind you, these subsidies were introduced in 2007 or 2008, I don't remember, perhaps later, but there were new companies in Serbia and before that. It wasn't there long ago, until the '90s, but it was another system, but after those unfortunate '90s, from 2001 to 2004 there were foreign investments without a cent that the state gave to anyone, not only through the privatisation process but also through brownfield and greenfield investments, Ball packaging, for example, and there are many other examples. So, it's a sad and pathetic country that's advertised to have the cheapest labour force on the continent, which means that our labour force is reduced to the labour price in Central Africa and that even beyond that, the state has to do a dowry or whatever you want to call it, subsidies, to get someone to open up a factory where cables for auto-industry or some other very high-tech. No high-tech factory has been opened in Serbia in the last seven, eight years, regardless of the high-profile announcements of half-conductors and I don't know what else. So I suggest that in a budget that is otherwise about 9.5 billion euros, about 260 million or those 32 billion dinars, change their purpose. So I suggest that subsidies in the economy be reduced to 9,000 dinars, means they're gone. To raise agricultural subsidies by five billion and thus to reach the level of 36 billion. The subsidies in agriculture are necessary everywhere, in the most liberal countries in the world they exist. It is the future of the Serbian economy. Railway subsidies to be halved. In response, I got that it would endanger security. What security are you talking about in Serbian railways? Where's security there? There are 200 ramps rising today when the wind blows, not when it should. The railway has the best rooms in all the cities where it has its headquarters, from Belgrade, via Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, anywhere. What about that property? If the safety of the railroad is paid in this way, there's no safety. That other subsidies, where everything and everything comes down to 10% of what is proposed and that 10 billion are saved, and that subsidies for culture are increased, by two billion because if there are no investments in culture and some other things that I'm going to say, we have nothing to build our future. So, two billion for culture, 10 for childcare, two for social protection, four for student standard, four for student standard, and five for the Youth Fund. This means that nearly six billion of these funds are raised out of about 700 million. So, to stop playing estherade in the economy and start investing in real values, and these are kids, that's culture, that's education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8464	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8465	Thank you. Dear MPs, I would like to say a few things in the context of the allocation of funds intended for the subsidy to carry out economic activity. It also includes the processing industry in the area of agriculture, and that is what is necessary for the development of this country. I'm just going to tell you a few things that are important in the process of attracting foreign investment, because I myself have had experience in the previous period to deal with it for the last ten years. What is most important for any state that it could attract any investor at all is not just money and is not the first thing, is the existence of legal certainty, the existence of responsibility of a political authority bearer, for one simple reason because every investor wants to have its own security. Security is this and the parameters that appear on the world's lists, including Serbia's sudden breakthrough on the Duing Business List, and I hope that in the coming period we will have an even better position in view of the changes in the rules. That's what's important and that's what I wanted to point out. It is very important that in the following year we have the funds that are intended to encourage the economy, because we also expect a larger number of investors to be domestic, foreign to the processing industry. This is what we insist on, because it is necessary for us to be able to place agricultural surpluses in a quality way through this line, not just through the sale of primary agricultural products. That's what's very important. As for subsidies in agriculture, we have in this budget for 2017 a direct increase for farmers of 2.5 billion dinars, four times what was in the 2016 budget. And that's what I wanted to say that the intensity of this government is to behave like this and have more investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8466	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8467	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, no matter what the amendment has submitted to my fellow farmer, the recordman...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8468	I apologize, MP, for interrupting, I ask the MPs not to turn their backs on us sitting here in the O.R. and Ministers. Don't humiliate the MPs who sit behind you. What you're doing today is very ugly to all of us, to turn your back on us, I won't use another expression. It's really very inappropriate. Don't worry, MP, I'll give you your time. It is truly inappropriate, there are MPs who support the government and the opposition and behave politely, and you are turning your back on us. It doesn't make sense, see, it's a humiliation of parliament and it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, your relationship with parliament. As President of Parliament, please turn around. It is your right to come out, but to turn your back on us, I think you have offended me and all the citizens, all these MPs who sit here and follow the debate. I'm sorry, MP, I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8469	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman didn't turn their back on me, but his coat of arms, his flag, his state and his constituents. I cannot make me disrespect them, nor harm their dignity, nor harm the dignity of my constituents. My fellow farmer, not by offerings, but by record subsidy, became a subsidy specialist. He pulled 525,000 euros and it's a record for a farmer in Serbia, and then he sold the vineyard. So, he was a farmer in an attempt, he didn't do that work at all, but apparently he understands how money is taken, but he doesn't know how money is made. I find his ignorance surprising, a man who was prime minister, a man who shares prime ministerial, mayoral, presidential, etc., as well as the support of 99% of voters, does not know how subsidies are created. He says you should take it from the economy and give it to agriculture. Is he the biggest economic gromat since Rodney Del Boy, this country has? Does he know that agricultural subsidies must be provided in industry, in the processing activity the government is going to? Does he think that when they have already taken 400,000 jobs in a few years, that they should not now give the government of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to hire those 400,000 workers they have fired, to revive the economy in such a way and to provide a higher level of subsidies from healthy industrial grounds, as in the whole developed world. This year it increased by 8.1% of the agrarian budget, precisely because economic activity thanks to subsidies and in the economy gave its results and then the industry could deliver more to agriculture. I don't know if he pulled more wine or wine out of it, but I don't want to waste time on unwise questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8470	I ask the services to do their job, that non-in-the- Hall MPs can't leave their cards here, and that the services respond immediately and that according to the Rules of Procedure, because that's what the Rules of Procedure say, take the cards they're going to have in the Secretariat and look for their cards. So, the Rules of Procedure says, if we're going to respect it, you have to take the card with you, and I ask the MPs who go out to take the card with them so they don't abuse the card. Peter Petrovic has a word. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8471	Madam President, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about this amendment we've been hearing about has just been a reason to come forward and I'm asked by the President of Unity of Serbia Dragan Markovic Palma, who today is not for legitimate reasons here to address us, to say a few words. It is known that we have always advocated the subsidisation and domestic production and investment in domestic production, etc., but we cannot accept the amendment for reasons to disrupt some of the relations in other relevant spheres and where costs, revenue costs are foreseen in the existing, proposed budget. That was precisely the reason why JS President Mr Markovic also addressed today with an open letter from the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kolinda Kitarovic, with questions – how is it possible that she apologized to children and parents in Dubrovnik because she shared Serbian chocolates with those children, and did not find it appropriate to apologize for many other products that enter Serbia and sell, where do they say so, their owners of certain factories, factory owners, headed by Todorovic, who has over 40 facilities in Serbia, sell in these facilities over 60% of Croatian products in Serbia? Mrs Kitarovic did not apologize for setting up Ustasha signs in Jasenovac, where several hundred thousand innocent citizens of Serbia and other nationalities who opposed the Ustasha regime were killed, did not apologize for breaking Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, but was good when Todorovic and other businessmen from Croatia place their goods in Serbia, and when they share Serbian chocolates in Dubrovnik children, then that bothers Mrs Kitarovic. That is why JS and our President Markovic are asking the Serbian government to change the policy course a little towards Croatian businessmen and to establish some reciprocity. As much as the Serbian products are on the Croatian market, so many Croatian products are on the Serbian market and in this way we establish some balance in exchange and in production between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. That is why we from JS and Mr Markovic expect the Government to subsidise our domestic producers more during the next period than some from Croatia and similar type of Todorovic, etc. That's why we can't accept a amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8472	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8473	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, our position, the position of the SDPS is that this amendment is rejected, but it is a good opportunity to discuss and finally remove the fam and to talk about the truth when it comes to subsidies and their final results. It is good that Mr. Nedimovic is here today, which is one of the people who showed in Sremska Mitrovica that with such a single policy, with one proactive policy and at other levels of government, other than the national level, here I am talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, parliament, so on local self-government, it can come to the conclusion that a city that has been a small town without private initiative and private business activities is now home to large investors and who employ thousands of people and not only in labour-intense industries, but also in other industries. Of course, I'll also remind the previous speaker that in 2012, we had about 200 million euros of foreign investment, that in 2016 this figure is 1.8 billion, so I don't know how to get these really impressive figures today. To remind the previous speaker of, say, NSR, over four thousand employees, who are currently engaged in new technologies, and today, today in Serbia, we are missing about 15,000 people who could work in companies that base their jobs on the latest IT technologies. And because we haven't reformed education, we haven't reformed and we haven't invested in science for decades back, I hope you can't blame this government that is working today and I'm sure that Mr. Sarcevic will also take care of the development of science, of investing in dual education, of new methods and new models of development that will help the economy in Serbia develop and be competitive not only in the region, because we skipped both Macedonia and BiH and all in the environment and strive, we are going towards being targeted by those countries that have been transitioned in the best way possible, which the minors have not felt the economic crisis, such as Slovakia, such as Poland, and this growth that has been projected by 3% in the coming year and this budget of course show. Also, I have to say that foreign direct investors are not just investors who use the benefits of these subsidies. I'm going to remind you of only one very good company from the A.R. It's called Bekament. We from the National Assembly, several of us MPs visited the company during this year and from the position and opposition we were. It's like a drugstore company. A few months ago, they received subsidies to expand their capacities, to export as much as possible, and to employ more than 80 people. So anyway, this is one model that needs to be supported, which should be continued. Given the competition we have in the region, when it comes to countries that are in the EU, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, that I am not talking about countries in the region, in any case this is one winning variant that will help Serbia remain the economic leader of the region and attract as many investors as possible here. The day before yesterday, I was talking about how we should take advantage of the opportunity now, this turbulent opportunity on the world market to show that Serbia is the best investment destination in Southeast Europe and that those who, eventually, plan to change their location of business to do so and invest their capital in Serbia, as a country that can fertilise it. Of course, we don't brag about it and that it's not a comparative advantage for us to pay the lowest, but in order for the wages to be more paid so that we can reach a goal and increase the wages both the average profit and the minimum profit, and we have to do it from real sources. You will agree that tomorrow we may have enough two and a half, three billion euros in additional investment, of course, several tens of thousands of jobs and, of course, that, with public sector reform, we will reach one level of economic growth and 5% of GDP, which will enable us to make more serious progress and, primarily, growth in the private sector that will ensure what the previous speaker was talking about, which is actually investing, investing in all those pillars of our society, as is culture, there was absolutely right, sport, health care. This is all what, of course, with economic development, supports the development of a whole country, and this has been happening for the past two years and how it is happening, because it is not just about politics, but about economics. As someone who comes from a party that is a social democratic province, of course I stand for fair and fair redistribution, but what? Only what is made as an additional value, only what is the product of GDP growth and what we earn and earn on the market. It will be for us the idea of leadership and what we will support in the coming period to make Serbia a modern and developed country. Of course, I agree completely, the previous speaker has often spoken of us having to run an economic policy based on krill - exports or die. So, the more exports, the more investments, the more competitiveness, and that's the only cure, the only way to develop. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8474	It's not exactly a replica, but I'll give it to you. It's more of a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8475	So, the previous speaker is me, there's no doubt, and that's the basis for replication. I agree that it's important that the investments come. In 2003, when Serbia had one smart, prosperous government, which I ran for a while, foreign direct investments were close to three billion euros, zero subsidies for anything. So, absolutely, the clean sides of the direct, plus something domestic. That's how you can do it. You can do it that way. It was supposed to be a model. I'm not saying that this government of two or four or five years ago changed the system. It's been changed by mistake before, by some former authorities, but you should've fixed it. You should have given up that model and returned to the basic model, which is that, and I agree with the Minister of Agriculture, investments are made by being a legal state, that you have legal certainty, the security of investments, the predictability of all investments. It's not a country where investment comes if at half the night someone with phantoms knocks you down downtown in Belgrade. It's not, of course. Not if court disputes last for decades. Not if many other ways show that Serbia, unfortunately, is still a country in transition that does not go either with dynamics or in a good direction in a valid way. Therefore, I agree, and thank you for the quote of the previous speaker - output or die in an economic sense. So exporting is something where we need to turn around, not patch up holes where those holes have been huge for decades. The Panchevo petchemy is out of date...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8476	Thank you, MP. It wasn't exactly in the replica, but come on. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8477	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I wanted to say that by 2006 there is no need for subsidies, because it was paid into the budget of 4.2 billion euros. Therefore, the subsidies were not necessary at the time. On the other hand, subsidies and recent years are needed today to increase Serbia's competitive advantage for the inflow of foreign direct investment, in order for Serbia to achieve growth and development. On the Finance Committee, we heard Mr. Finance Minister that we should talk about the heterogeneity of subsidies, that many, by chance, are obsolete on the principle of giving, but that because of that many who go towards the development of entrepreneurship and the development of the processing industry, such as the example of agriculture, should be, perhaps, bigger. We therefore need to talk in parliament about how subsidies should be given in the future. This amendment should not be accepted at this time, but it should be discussed in a new, completely new way about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8478	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8479	I agree, of course, and it's good when one country can attract a lot of investments without subsidies, but I'll just remind you that it was another time. At that time, in just a few years, only grants and grants entered the Republic of Serbia worth several billion euros for which the final result, while the governments functioned... We don't know what the ultimate product was with both large subsidies and Serbia, which then had one big rating and was one hope in the region that in a fast and dynamic way it would be able to transform, complete a transition and become a modern country. Of course, it belongs to our Serbia, but you will agree with me that we have not succeeded, unfortunately, that time has changed, that it has been 10 years, that there are still recessions in some EU countries. Thank God Serbia is not in recession. We are fighting in one way and I don't think that without these subsidies we could be competitive on the market and that we can't make a comparison between the time of 2001, 2002 and now in 2015, and that Serbia is on the road when it comes to the economy, when it comes to democracy, when it comes to its policy, public policy, it is that in this month, with the full support of Germany, with the full support of Austria, the EU opens three more chapters. We are going clearly towards the goal, towards full membership in the EU, and we are certainly becoming one of the strongest economic countries in this region. I think this budget will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8480	Thank you. You've wasted your time. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: You are raw. Yes, I'm very cruel, especially towards you. The word has been given by MP Milija Miletic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8481	Thank you. Dear President, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, just because we have to have the opportunity to help hire people in all parts of our country of Serbia, with an accent, normally, on this part of Southeast Serbia where more subsidies are needed for separation, to employ people and to provide jobs. As far as agriculture is concerned, in agriculture, we need to allocate more of these subsidies, but I support our budget, which our government has proposed, because I think the budget is a household, responsible budget. We're helping through this budget. This budget is like a single household. Our host is Prime Minister. This is the budget of the household, and I think that all of us who are here should support the budget and this amendment to reject it for the reason that the previous period that was when the companies that were built by our fathers, our grandfathers, were sold at the time of the privatisation that was catastrophic. When the budget was filled, that money was not spent on purpose and there was no need for subsidies. So, now this budget is domestic and developmental, and it's investmental, and it thinks about everything, I say, as one household, where it's thought of as a family, where it's meant for children's health, where kids are thought they can learn or have to learn, where they think about good neighbors and normally, I'm going to vote against this amendment, but it voted for the budget with all your heart and because your budget is great, because it's investment, because it's more isolated for agriculture and I'd like it to even be in one piece, and that part that's concrete for demographics. I come from municipalities that are the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but the third municipality is by age. Therefore, the portfolio-free ministry led by Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is something new that our government and our prime minister have allocated to the budget, and I think it is necessary in the best way to solve problems and demographics, to invest in youth, to invest in the economy, to invest in agriculture. Without strong economy and agriculture, we do not have the development of our country of Serbia. Once again, I call upon everyone not to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8482	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8483	Subsidies are an extremely bad way to boost the economy. There are no analyses that have been done with us, which talk about how much and whether any subsidy that has been given has fuelled economic growth at all. Subsidy is a gift. When you do nothing in society, then you try to explain to citizens that you have to pay someone to come to Serbia and create jobs, so for example, a Chinese investor in Obrenovac should get over 27,000 euros per job to pay citizens 200 euros. It's completely incomprehensible. "Truthnomer" was doing a story on this and a radio analysis. So we're turning into a land of cheap labour. Citizens obviously don't understand these stories about how we need jobs, how we want to encourage empty stories until it turns out that there really is some connection between giving money and some economic growth on the other hand. In fact, the biggest investor and support for the economy came from abroad in terms of a decline in oil prices, which, for example, only in 2014 helped the domestic economy with over 300m euros. It seems that the next 2015 and 2016 will also have this effect. And the second is, of course, the drop in interest rates on the world market that are useful for Serbia. That did contribute and help a little. However, measures such as subsidies are one disastrously wrong policy. It was led in 2008 and 2009. We already know about the character and work of former Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Alexander Vukic took over that policy and it continues. This should be stopped because the situation in which the domestic water heater manufacturer pays taxes, and then the government takes those taxes and gives some foreign investor, its competitor, to open up and shut down the factory next to it, is indeed a lossful "perpentum mobile", economic policy. Subsidies should be lifted. They don't contribute anything. In fact, they just cost us even worse, they're about corruption. When I was Minister of Business, we discovered at the time that the subsidies were given along with a 30% party racket. This is what the businessmen themselves told us, which party personnel and the parasitic system, which actually cost us the most, came with suggestions – we will give you a subsidy if you return that money to us in another way. Criminal proceedings are being conducted in this regard. The subsidies have always been a cover for corruption so far. We become a country of cheap labour, and this should finally end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8484	The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8485	Ladies and gentlemen, when Truthomer is a measure of economic theory, economic practice is then a big difference between us from SNS and you – wherever you are. I don't want to underestimate any MP of the National Assembly at all because not everyone has to know the good economy, but those who alluded to being economic experts, I would remind you a little bit. The problem of subsidies is a fundamental issue shared by the economic theory since 1900. By 1900, there was no such problem. Everyone felt that the classical economic theory was the essence of Isaiah's law, and then under pressure of economic problems, investment, or subsidies from different countries, took place, and it theoretically circled somewhere by bringing Cannes' general interest and money theory. Cans was the first to confirm in economic theory that there is an investment, or intervention in the state. After that Milton Friedman, I assume you've been reading, has done an analysis of the state's investment in the economy on a famous multiplier model where he's determined, which was completely against Cans, to teach you a little bit, that at $100 that the state invests there's no evidence that shows that he's not going to return at least 100 dollars from the economy. So there's no way that state subsidies invested in the economy are a loss, says Milton Friedman, a Nobelian. Maybe you know more. So, if the state can invest, in a multiplier variant, it returns $100 minimum, Milton Friedman says it's probably an effect on the return of funds that the state invests through different areas bigger. What's the problem here? Here the problem is that today we can accept different economic theories. If you ask me myself, I tend to Milton Friedman and Hayk more personally, but the bottom line is that today the world doesn't work on liberal principles. When this right-hand side spits on neoliberalism, the main representatives essentially of the idea of neoliberalism in Serbia are the right-hand side. Maybe she's doing it unconsciously... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: I admit. I'm not saying for you. It's nothing to argue with. For individuals who are chief representatives criticising the SNS completely pointless. In conditions where today all European countries are either developed or not developed, all Balkan countries are developed or undeveloped, almost all countries in the world are moving to an economic policy that is more appropriate to Cannes, or direct investment, which is completely different from what we had ten years ago, 20 years ago, there is no mechanism that leaves the Government of the Republic of Serbia to attract a foreign investor at the moment when you have currency conflicts, a huge amount of capital invested on the global market, except to offer one form of interventionism to attract foreign investors. You can agree and disagree. You can lift subsidies, but at this point you won't have GDP growth, you won't have a new level of employment in foreign and domestic large companies, and it is undeniable that small and medium-sized enterprises are the essence of one nation's growth and development. But at this point in time, at this level that we have reached, Serbia must simply invest and not do this, if this were not good for Serbia, the results in the previous two years would not be like this. GDP growth would not occur, as the biggest GDP growth has just come from the largest exports from companies that are foreign and which Serbia has somehow helped to get here. There'd be no increase in employment levels, and he's certainly bigger. Changing a policy that results in conditions where such behaviour is globally acceptable because you want to do political damage to your political opponents is completely pointless. We can talk about whatever it is, but subsidies in conditions of normal economic functioning today are an appropriate thing and they lead to GDP growth no matter what we think of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8486	Ambassador Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8487	I'm extremely glad that my colleague quoted some theory and that we're dealing with some sort of content and we can agree or not about it, but if on a table of funds invested by the state, from a subsidy or any of the state's investment returns to a minimum of 100, and some expect more, then why don't we invest the entire budget in subsidies, why don't we just charge ourselves on never more favourable terms and put all this into subsidies if it's so safe and so good? There's no reason to stay on what we have right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8488	The word has a People's Messenger, Goran Kovacevic, a replica. Please, just for a minute. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: When did he mention him? Nobody's talking about you. He told him some kind of theory. Don't give it to him? Here, no opposition to giving you a replica. Who did he mention? Alexander Stevanović, but if you say so... Here's to agree that the opposition won't give a replica. I agree, no one mentioned the previous speaker, who referred to some theories. If you think it's wrong, we have the same criteria. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Do you want a word? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: By amendment. You too, by amendment? Can you move a little faster so I can follow the session? If he can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8489	So I've been on this for five minutes now, so these comments of yours are really inappropriate. As for these economic theories about Canes and Friedman, we're talking about subsidies here, state investments are two different things. The subsidy is a gift, and state investment is a state investment. Gift and investment are two different things. The other thing, as far as Frdgman is concerned, I only have one anecdote to tell about Friedman, it goes very much like what Alexander Stevanovic said. When he passed by the road where they built a highway in a socialist state with shovels, not to mention which one, Friedman asked what shovels used and not the mechanics, and they told him – because it achieves full employment, and then Friedman asked, "Why don't you give them spoons?" So in the same case, the question is, if it's so good with subsidies, then 84 billion should be donated to someone, so why not 160 billion? Why don't we just get in charge of all the money and go after it? Why don't we do something like that, because then that would be, in your opinion, economic policy. Of course, this doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't exist. This economic policy can best be called that name. So it's the same as Dinkic's, perpetual mobile economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8490	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8491	My pleasure to defend SNS's views, in fact to defend, not that theory that Goran Kovacevic said here, but he said -- the esteemed colleague Milton Friedman. So if you take it and read it, I didn't say it, the multiplier table, it's not Goran Kovacevic's theory, but you're experts in economics, I guess you've read the basics. The criticism of Milton Friedman on Canes' theory which is the essence of the problem of the state's subsidy, or whatever you call it, gifts, interventionism subsidies are based on a multiplier of fellow Milton Friedman "Sto," where he said, and I'm telling you, that Milton Friedman, who criticized Kens, the basic thing is that you have no proof that when you invest whatever you give in the economy, it doesn't come back to you, at least in the same amount as it comes back to you when you invest. As for the different proverbs that Friedman said, that is, there is one proverb that I think is much more appropriate to you at this point, and she says that when you deal with the economy and you do it badly, not respecting the rules, and politics is the same thing, then the devil always comes for himself. It's just that the Devil always comes before you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8492	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8493	I agree with my colleague, the devil will come very soon, but in April. As far as this is concerned again about Friedman and Cannes, to repeat my colleague, you'll understand maybe, second time, the subsidy is one thing, it's a gift, and the investment of the state is something else entirely. I'd like to ask my colleague, after he's read all those books, to say exactly which one of Milton Friedman's books, and in what part, and we'll look into what he's talking about. So tell us exactly what Milton Friedman's book you're talking about and exactly what he said there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8494	Thank you. Certainly a debate about Friedman and Canes deserves attention, but we're moving on. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from town : Yes. ) You are not a proposing or a group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8495	No, from the authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8496	From the authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8497	My boss authorized me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8498	No, you're not authorized, until the debate begins, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8499	And that's just for SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8500	I'm sorry, let's not be like the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8501	You can change the authorities during the debate. The Democratic Party can't or what is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8502	Who changed here with authority?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8503	You're applying different rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8504	MPs, do you want to speak or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8505	Of course I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8506	Your intention to argue every time I apply the Rules of Procedure is amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8507	President, I'm telling you right now that I want to speak and use the time of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8508	But first you say something in public that's not true and that's your intention. You're that kind of man, but it's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8509	That's not true. What a man I am and what a man you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8510	You have to sign up first, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8511	It's funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8512	It is funny, but I can't give you my word without reporting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8513	It's funny, 'cause I had my word, so you took it away from me and you're telling me to sign up. In this amendment, counterpart Gordana Comic proposed that a billion dinars be invested more in the Youth Fund. We have a few ways where we suggest that this money be found in the budget. It has specifically proposed to take away from the Railways here, however, one of the things where also these billions of dinars can be found is that of which the Fiscal Council criticises you, this is exactly the Fund for the private companies of your business partners, whom you without order, without criteria, without an estimate and without a rule give 11 billion dinars, to buy investments on which Serbians are born for 200 euros, stand 15 hours behind the tape and carry diapers. It's actually a valuable definition of what society we want us to have. That's what our deputy boss Balša Bozovic was talking about, so you wanted to lynch him here, that was before you kicked him out of the Assembly when he asked you to fence yourself on the behavior of Marijan Rističević, that's the question of whether we want to build a knowledge society or whether we want to build a society where our citizens like slaves stand behind the tape for 15 hours, wear diapers, worship employers. You represent all this as an investment, although the citizens of the Republic of Serbia bought their jobs through the budget. We propose to invest a billion dinars for those people who are the best students in Serbia, for those who are the best students in Serbia, for those who are the best graduates in Serbia, and for your idea to invest a billion dinars in buying jobs where people work for 180 euros and 15 hours is behind the tape. You say, Mr. Vujovic, that this amendment is not technically possible, that it is not correct. If it is not correct, we will make a correction, you know that it is possible for MPs to make amends until the moment the amendment is voted on. Let's create a knowledge society, let's invest in young talent, don't invest in companies that hire people for 180 euros, because it's not investments, it's bought jobs, and it's bought by the money of Serbian citizens. The fiscal council says you don't know what that money's being spent on. You just summed up a list of companies that would get 11 billion dinars. We suggest that he invests in young talents instead. Let us create thinking citizens without creating those who are forced to accept 180-euro jobs, wear diapers and stand behind the tape 15 hours a day, all to present ourselves as having some kind of investment. You get angry when we say it's a slave society. Come on, you say, what's it called when someone's been standing behind a tape for 15 hours wearing diapers, they have no right and they get 20,000 dinars for it? You say what it's called, and you say is that Serbia you want to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8514	Just hand me over, because that agenda is in progress, and as far as I can see, Goran Ciric, lives and lives in the hall. So, I don't know why, it's your problem why you're changing it in the middle of a debate. Yeah, that is really your problem. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. No, you can't, so no, you have no one to replicate. (Goran Ciric, from the place: I am mentioned. (Laughter) Thank you, MP, I only want to say it again when I say it. No, it's got to get into the record. I will no longer twist the truth at press conferences. When I spoke, you have no one to replicate, the Messenger Jesic said, and you are right there. And I want to get it into the record, so that everyone in the public knows what it's like to have a session in this House, where I sit, try to hold a session, and then MPs go to a press conference and claim that they don't disrespect and insult the president. Here you go, Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8515	Thank you very much. I'm talking about Amendment No. 8, which was submitted by the MP Gordana Komic. With your discussion I can agree, we're all for the knowledge society, and that's where we totally agree. We're all in favour of supporting young talents. The budget included what the corresponding ministry felt was necessary and could be realised within the frameworks and capacities that we have. We have a parallel few initiatives dealing with it. We're ready, I say responsibly, that if they, by the criteria they have, can locate more resources, that these funds will not be a problem. What we disagree on is that we have to do it by the rules and we have to discuss a member of the amendment that is proposed. Your colleague, Comic, has proposed changing subsidies not to mention economic subsidies, but only to reduce the subsidies to the railways, by one billion and increase subsidies, or lines of support for young talents. That's two drawbacks. One thing is, there's no explanation of how to do it in a special part of the budget, so it's written here, in the twilight part, this is a general remark on all the amendments, that if you change something in the twilight part, you have to suggest where to change and in the basic part, means in Article 8. Secondly, my answer to Article 8 was that there the ministry determines what capacity we have to realize, it's not just a matter of throwing money away. And thirdly, very important, we're here at the Railways, and that's what Mr. Zivkovic already said, that he would like to reduce the subsidy and we're subsidies in the Railways that had one part that was capital, so our subsidies are heterogeneous. There are 11 billion scheduled for subsidies, and these are pay subsidies and infrastructure, there are no cargo subsidies, and that's where we behave in accordance with the multiannual restructuring and modernisation programme of railways, but we have subsidies provided for passenger traffic, the quota share of the wages involved. That's what every country in Europe does. Whether it is done effectively or not, it should be evaluated by people who are doing concrete projects. We have two projects at the railways, one is a structural project, the other is one relating to specific technical matters, and within these projects we can discuss details. The part here that would be, which is capital, is part of the participation in the use of so-called. Russian loan, which is now being extended and which allows the railways to continue modernization. There's 4.8; 4.9 billion scheduled. If we could reduce that, then we couldn't respect our share, we couldn't use a loan where about 600 million of the funds we could use were missing parts of the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway, for the missing parts of the bridges, infrastructures through Fruska Gora and tunnel through Fruska Gora, etc. That's all I wanted to say on this subject. Thank you very much. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: He exceeded the minute, turn down his time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8516	I will, I will, of all time, don't worry about anything. It's not me, it's the service, I just have a screen in front of me, nothing more. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8517	Dear President, I hope you've made sure that I sent you a memo yesterday with Miss Jerkov's authority and she was really telling the truth. I don't know how it didn't happen to you, but adequately to what the parliamentary group head of the majority has sent you and you've accepted that authority. I hope you have the same attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8518	Article 39 would ask you to consider, until the search is opened on that agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8519	Okay. I'm going to use two minutes, as an amendment promoter, and I'm going to use the rest of the time as head of the DS Parliament Club. The essence of this amendment that I have submitted is something that we have discussed and debated when the entire government and the Prime Minister were present. It's free meals for elementary and secondary school students in Serbia. I think we're capable here, in this room, and I hope the government is also capable, with the help of local self-government to achieve one simple goal. It's not too big. I really don't think it's too big to realize something that, I'm sure, we all believe here. And that is an attempt to be just in redistributing some wealth created in Serbia. The substance of this amendment is specifically to remove six billion from the subsidy division and the proposal was to remove six billion from the subsidisation of public enterprises and to attribute those six billion to the student standard, to the division of the student standard that will later develop and to the Ministry of Education in all the professional services that should pursue that objective. What am I talking about? We have a real test here and I urge my fellow Members and fellow Members to support this amendment, obviously that we have not received government support, the prime minister has given the order to his ministers and his professional services to find a way, because I said, if the problem is only part of taking it out of subsidies, find some way. I'm sure there's a six-billion-dollar budget for such an important goal. This morning some kid went hungry to school. Biljana Malusic, from the place: It always was. It's always been, that's it. It's always been, but don't we have a chance to make it right? Wouldn't it be a great success for all of us, this assembly, that next year, your success as a minister, the success of the Prime Minister, all of us, to correct what has always been? Some of us seniors remember getting lunch at school. I think it's extremely important that we start to solve this problem. About the goal, we can agree and we can talk about technical details. The answer here is that there are no details and the way they will be implemented in particular such a goal, but we said – here you go, give these six billion subsidies to public enterprises and redistribute where most necessary. That's where we realize the ethical principles. There are many Social Democrats and left-wings here, there are those who are liberals, but what are principles? The principles are to help the weakest, and the weakest are precisely those children who can't help themselves at six or seven years of age, up to their age and age. Is it a lot of six billion to separate, and on the other hand we're giving out 11 billion dinars to some companies where you have private capital? You have 50% of your private capital participation, and we're willing to help with double the money of those who are strongest, those who are powerful and public enterprises that can be more efficient, but we're not ready to single out six billion for those who are weakest. It's a simple logic. I invite you, let it be your amendment, and I said, it doesn't matter, the DS filed it, I signed it, we worked on it, we'll give up that signature, but find a solution. What further is the proposal on the effects of this decision besides this great human goal? That at least in that period we make children equal, that they have equal motivation for learning, that they don't bring with them the bitterness of these differences, even to the extent that someone has, and someone doesn't have breakfast. It looks like a demagogue story, but it's not, believe me. You know that yourself. I think we can do that. That's why I'm calling you. What does that mean, still in effect? Here, I've talked to people who, as well as the Minister of Agriculture, analyze the structure of food that is now being spent in Nis. I have data that 70% of the food we use is imported, that 30% of the food is produced here within 50 kilometers. Is that the sustainability of this society? We are talking about the budget not only in figures, but also in its sustainability and what we leave behind from this country, to encourage this local production, so that we can therefore chain distribution and a high goal, which some serious countries have implemented through education and the production of healthy food, the introduction of new healthy habits, a great goal for all of us, but let's open that topic. The aim of this amendment was to open this topic and therefore the minister, as well as all the other ministers, and the finance minister, and the present agriculture minister, I call on us to work together on this. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Not that World Bank. Well, it's not enough. Six billion isn't much, it's really not much for one such goal. Here, we have an example. Since we're talking about public enterprises and there's been talk and part of the answer here -- if it's removed from the railways' subsidies, it's going to endanger the safety of rail traffic. It's okay, you could have made a proposal -- you don't have to take down six billion from 16, so it comes to ten. It could've been taken off those two with those 11, some two billion, and raised enough funds to do this job. I know it's not easy to do, but with our decision here in the budget, with the division that we're going to have in the student standard, with the organization of all the local self-governments that have to get involved, because different ministries have to get involved in this, with this analysis, with the Ministry of Agriculture, with the incentive, with the Ministry of Health, we're doing one big story. I think we'd all be proud, all of us sitting in this room, if tomorrow we could see it coming and it'd be better year by year. We talked about it, and you ministers invited us all to a consensus on some key topics, and I really don't see any reason to think differently about this. Let's stand together on this one topic and say -- it's not too challenging in a financial sense, because it really isn't, compared to thousands of billions of dollars in this budget, and to develop an undeniable goal in an entire society that will employ all segments of society in a number of ways. At least around some point to catch up with. I think we can agree on that, and I'm really calling you on it. We have an example. Here, we didn't talk about it, public enterprises and the profits of public enterprises. Two years ago, we had a budget in which the National Bank participated with four billion dinars in the profit budget. Right? Then in 2013, she worked with a loss of 40 billion and, behold, now for the last two years, fortunately, she's showing some profit, but I don't see any participation in that profit. Now, only those four billion that we had in the budget three years ago would probably be enough to start the realization of this project, even if from September of next year, if the institutions weren't ready to implement it from January 1st, and they probably wouldn't be. I ask you to think about it and not to miss the next year, to go into such a project because it's required, because I think there's enough energy and enough knowledge. I think that we would integrate the whole of society and we would wake up many people from local administrations in such an important challenge. I urge you once again, no matter who signs the amendment, no matter whether it's DS or some DS MP, please take the amendment to yourself, suggest it, and I think we would really be proud of this solution in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8520	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word has Minister Branislav Nedmovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8521	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, I would like to point out the importance of this topic that has just been discussed. I am grateful that we can agree that this topic is very important, especially in educational institutions. Let me just tell you one thing, what we've already done about it. Since we in the Serbian government are doing all things teamwise, with Minister Sarčević and co-worker Brnabic, we have launched an initiative for one project, which at the moment seems quite optimistic, but we think it is an idea for us to enter the education institutions with projects – school fruits and school milk. Why is that so important? For the simple reason that all the things that look like inequality, that in educational institutions, a bar, at the lower level, in primary schools, we could say that everyone has the right to a school meal. But what about that, one more thing, we could do? I noticed in one part of your exposure that you looked back at local processors, local producers. It's also our idea to activate it all. What is unknown at this point, and what we will be working on in the first half of the year, in order to be able to get there in the second half of the year with a special project for this, is an analysis of the logistics management of this whole project, for the simple reason it is necessary to prepare. We'll include the Public Health Service, so that we can get this whole thing ready in a good way. We're going to include schools and we're going to include local self-government, because it takes synergy of all these institutions to make this work in a quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8522	Thank you. My colleague Jerkov, you're the one who ordered the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I don't want to burden the session, I wanted the president something, but he's not here. I thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been sent by the People's Parliament of Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8523	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, what I want to say is that the amendment in this form is not acceptable. What Mr. Minister said was the right thing to do. I'm telling you this as someone who spent 25 years at the Public Health Office in Kruševec and I know what a good and quality school meal means. What is wrong with this amendment is the fact that since we want to transfer something into consumption from subsidies. Will parents not be happy if they have a job and if we encourage these subsidies to work, that they can afford more than a glass of milk and apples as part of a school meal? The second thing, the social policy of this government is entirely foreign to you, because it is completely unknown to you that the school meals of children of socially endangered categories are free of charge. There are categories in both preschool and school institutions where meals are organized at school level, that there are simply clearly prescribed norms by which someone pays school lunch or gets it for free. Look at that, then it'll be clearer. And who's left and at what time without 400,000 jobs, and why are our children going hungry, and the milkers spill milk that a child would like to drink, ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8524	Thank you. Replica, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8525	Thank you. I was talking about ethics. I was talking about justice. I've been talking about this without any accusations of who's guilty here or whether he's guilty. By the time we were kids, we had those meals, so there was a way to fix it. The question is whether we are human and smart enough now to know that we need this and need it in these conditions. It's not just happening with us, it's obvious there's a huge decomposition all over the world. With great and high technological progress, it is obvious that the rich become even richer, that the poor become even poorer and that this non-compliance becomes unbearable. It makes society unsustainable. We have to read what's going on in society. We can talk about a great budget, which has only 1.7% of the deficit, but we need to think about the sustainability of that budget and the sustainability of the society that needs to realise that budget and make it kind of long-term. That's what this is about. We have to look for those solutions. We need to find those solutions. I think that's a really undeniable goal. And what you're saying -- "it's not realistic to start from January 1st," I said -- so it's not realistic to start from January 1st, but we should plan, and if we keep delaying this solution, and we agree that it is necessary, let's plan from September 1st, from next year, and use those nine months to organize and say, yes, we will implement this programme and the plan that the ministries have taken over and we will realize a high idea. But for that, we need to make a decision now and make some resources in the division that are much more useful on this side than on that other side. No one's gonna lose that much money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8526	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8527	Thank you. I'm a kid who lived in communist times and went to school. The snack was never free. I don't know on what basis you've been getting free lunch, that's one thing. Secondly, if you remember "Nevena" from Leskovec, they also had a kindergarten for their employees. And what did you do with 24 and a lot more privatisation? After-brains is the best, I know that, but it's not good to invest in consumption from subsidies. This should be on a real basis, on real resources, from income coming out of the contributions of those who make money, and we just want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8528	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8529	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, simply without doubting the good intentions of an esteemed colleague on the provision of snacks in schools, especially for children from socially endangered categories, I have to mention only one thing, in order not to create the wrong picture. Children in Serbia who are in the school system from socially endangered categories and who have the opportunity to get free lunches. If you look at the Social Security Act, in Article 111. The Law on the founding of an education and education system, in Article 160. – enables local self-government to make a decision on extended rights in the area of social security and that kind of assistance. I know most local self-government in Serbia has already provided that assistance. Simply so we don't create a picture of children starving in Serbia's school system. That's just not true. Not to mention the possibility that through the national cuisine programmes financed by the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs, and how that part of the population receives assistance, as well as in the draft budget that lies ahead of us, increased funds concerning the direct assistance of social services users in the social protection system are provided. It's simple to avoid such an opportunity and an illusion where he's trying to create an image that, my God, the children in Serbia in the school system are hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8530	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party is life first and therefore the Democratic Party's parliamentary group considers the funds identified by this budget to be extremely low. That is why the Democratic Party has proposed an amendment to increase the Fund's funds for young talents. Unfortunately, 55,000 people left the country during 2015. Fifty-five thousand young and talented leaders have left the country and I am sure it is a disastrous result and this is the result of the Serbian Progressive Party's policy. (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: We were not so lucky to have left it too. ) You, Mr. Markovic, can nod as long as you like, you're very nice, you're in charge of the Wizard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8532	There's no need to speak directly. Here you go. (Alexander Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8533	Please don't get me. I'm talking about a really serious amendment and I'm asking you to accept this amendment. I hope that this amendment is good and that it corresponds to the policy of all citizens who have left the country in the hope that these citizens will return to our country. We have the data, this budget represents one reality of Serbia, and the other reality of Serbia represents how citizens live. We have a young, talented and serious educated girl, Stanislava Vukicevic, who finished her pharmaceuticals, finished within the deadline, had the best grades in the university. The girl for two years couldn't find a job in Serbia, in Serbia where only SNS listeners get the job. That girl, unfortunately, is in Malta today working as a coffee cook at a hotel, a girl who finished her pharmaceuticals with the best grades. About this policy, this devastating SNS policy towards Serbian citizens, and about the excellent policy for SNS members, the DS is talking about and we will always fight against such a destructive policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8534	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear fellow ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although it is a replica, I will use two minutes of replica, so not from the time of the SNS. I must say, I'm glad that the previous speaker, the amendment speaker, was illustrating his knowledge, i.e. Not knowing, about the budget, about the budget system through its amendment, so I would like to call on the argument that the government has given in its opinion. The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons which do not comply with Article 28. The law on the budgetary system, which found that the budget consists of a general and specific piece that is compatible with each other according to the types of expenditure. The previous speaker didn't know that clearly. The general part of the budget shows aggregated expenditure by species, while in a particular part of the budget these expenditures are sorted by users. I hope that by reading this explanation, the amendment promoter has learned something about the budget. How can I tell you, despite his recent lack of knowledge about the budget, he's had a chance in the past to show another knowledge of the budget, which is unfortunately knowledge of how to abuse the budget. On several occasions, he also showed in part how the budget is misused, in particular in the case of his municipality, the municipality from which he comes, which is Smederjevska Palanka. For example, we have an example of how they abused that same budget for 14 million dinars, he and the president of his party. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the Corruption Research Centre, who published evidence that yellow Ken and Shule damaged the budget for 14 million dinars in Smederjevska Palanca, bought the building, and then sold the building afterwards, where the difference ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8536	Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8537	Fourteen million dinars are the budget damaged by Smederjevska Palanka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8538	Thank you. Minister Dusan Vujovic first holds the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8539	Just a minute's attention, please. So this is one in a series of amendments where I essentially understand the proposal's intention, which is to step up in this particular case to define more funds for the Youth Fund, for the student standard, etc. We have a whole series of suggestions that have a healthy... These are all good suggestions, only we can't consider, let alone adopt proposals that are technically not correct. So, fellow, they have to be consistent with Article 28. Budgetary system law, one. I'd add another suggestion on my part, I don't know how to organize it in the work of the Assembly in the future, which is that they have to be checked with the relevant ministries. In other words, it is not enough just to define the funds, it is necessary that there is the capacity of the Ministry to implement them with appropriate programmes. So I don't want to get misunderstood, these are great ideas, so all this is said. One good idea is to reconsider all subsidies. I accept the question, I think it's a very serious question. The second question is, we have some elements on the spending side that need to raise our capacity and efficiency of the education and support system, especially if we want to reform the education system. Then it is very important that children are not damaged in that system in any way, that they have all the assumptions of good learning. It's all to be supported, but unfortunately we can't technically consider it, let alone accept these ideas. I can ask myself whether or not we can try to adopt some amendments to the Government, the amendments to the Committee, while staying in the gauges of the budget that we have and in the technical rules that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8540	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Replica, is that right, Mr. Milojich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8541	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for saying in your statement that this amendment is good. For technical reasons, the Youth Fund will run out of funds. I hope that maybe by working together, we can find a way to increase these funds for young talent so that we don't have brain drains. However, even a previous fellow MP can talk about the Smederjevska Palanca, he can talk about whatever he wants, but the SNS has been in power for five years and after five years of SNS rule, we have a situation where parents who bring their children in for high temperatures are praying that they take syrup or pills with them because this home of health is not there. We have, after five years, the situation that there is no airline factory promised by the prime minister. We have five years later, the SNS rule that this Mercedes has never seen the light of day, but that's why the light of day has seen the corruption contracts of criminal Zvonko Veseinovic, for whom you have no political credibility and the courage to arrest him. Light has not caught a four billion-euro chip factory in days. This budget is only good for the SNS, but Serbian citizens barely make ends meet, and 50,000 children are hungry every day in schools as Mr. Ciric said. You should think about it, not continue to destroy Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8542	National MP Aleksandar Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our people have a saying. They want the truth. Sometimes and unconsciously, you say what you want. So the other day, we had the opportunity to hear from the previous speaker that the Budget Law is next year and that DS as a state-owned and responsible party will always praise what is bad for 27 years with a clear direction and goal of action. I believe it may have been a lapus, but as the people say, they want the language of truth. So, DS at every opportunity, at each point demonstrates that it is true, that it supports all these 20 years of what is bad for Serbia. Just one more thing. I don't have the ambition to discuss the budget with him, he's shown his relationship to the budget in the best possible way, so, and I know he's not even interested in consolidation, that he's not interested in stopping the public debt, because he and his party, while they were running the government in that municipality, have just left how we've heard billions of dinars of debt. So, every day, if I didn't know how much they spent, we wouldn't have been able to do it so much if they owed the Smederian Palanca. Now all I have to ask is who's gonna pay for it? And remind him that he hadn't gone to pay for the electricity, the electricity, the water, all the debts that were left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8544	Mr. Kiric, you'll get your word, but we have a certain order. You'll get your word. (Goran Điric, from the post: Replication of the party. If you'll allow me, I'd continue to hold a session as normal as we've had before. Please sit down. It's all right, but please sit down first, I'll explain to you, you'll get a word of reference to DS, but immediately before that Mr. Milojičić mentioned SNS, so National MP Aleksandra Tomic as an authorised representative of the SNS has the right to replication. Here you go. The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Tomic, and then you, Mr. Ciric, will get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8545	I thank the chairman. It's been mentioned twice in that logic, I should have four minutes of replication, mentioning SNS, but we'll cut that time short, we'll be very effective. It should be said that we really do not have the knowledge to leave local self-government in the debt of three billion dinars, to leave the citizens of the small municipality of Smederevska Palanka without electricity and water and not paid bills and that simply whoever is to return to Serbia's budget should return those three billion dinars and reroute that money for the Youth Fund for which it is seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8546	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you are, the base of the replication, the mention of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8547	Yes, the DS has been mentioned which shows its maturity and through this debate on the budget in an effort to criticise, of course, what we disagree with and we think that criticism is also in the role of seeing some real state in the country and trying to find solutions. When we criticise the public debt and increase the public debt of 10 billion for these five budgets that are being passed in the Assembly or the reduction of the NBS foreign reserves by two billion, it is not a criticism that needs to be taken on purpose, but to discuss how we will discuss the proposal for a measure in this Assembly when adopting each next budget, the way to address these challenges in Serbia. And then we propose amendments to some of the solutions that we help essentially government. This is how we help the government. It is not a question of whether you will do to us and adopt our amendments, because we are not doing this because of ourselves or the DS, but we are trying to do something good for the citizens of Serbia. And on the subject mentioned above, the constant mention of Smederjevska Palanka and the Minister of State Administration and local self-government kept mentioning it, is it one of the only local self-government in Serbia of 175 cities and municipalities with budget deficits and do they have the biggest problems? Well, of course not. You agree with the huge number of local self-governments in huge financial problems, but only Smederjevska Palanka is mentioned. If you had mentioned at least two of the cities or municipalities they have next to Smederevska Palanka, I would understand your argument. Look what's going on in Kragujevac, what's going on in Nis. Well, we saw the prime minister himself criticising Mayor Nis for 50m euros in losses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8548	Thank you. It's been two minutes. We're moving on. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8549	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the idea and purpose of this amendment is to try to help where we have potential, and that is above all agriculture, to reduce funds for subsidies to public enterprises that are both by the Fiscal Council and in discussions by Minister Vujovic, practically presented as something which is the biggest problem of this budget. So we have had a situation to save on all other things in the past four years except for what is Serbia's biggest problem, and these are public enterprises that continue to spend and behave arrogantly, and Serbian citizens should save and make up for their losses. So, the proposal is for the Ministry of Agriculture to rise by ten billion in the subsidy budget with respect to what Mr. Nedimovic said increased the budget by two and a half billion. That's good, but I don't think it's enough and it'll go back to the budget a lot more if we invest more. Also, from the positions of other subsidies, other transfers and other non-transparent items, I suggest that at least part of the transferred transfers be returned, i.e. the funds actually to cities and municipalities that have been taken away by the adoption of a new amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government. So three billion to deploy to towns and municipalities in Serbia, because they are actually more and more poor year by year, with bigger and bigger competencies. Something that I have to comment on in addition to that, is that, in fact, in the public finance bulletin issued by the Ministry of Finance, I read that in the first eight months of 2016, the central government achieved a deficit of 5.3 billion and a local surplus level of 13.9 billion. It is now actually proof that data is being manipulated and deceived by the public. We heard one thing in the debate, and the other we read in public documents published by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8550	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8551	Thank you. I'd like to say a few words, since it's in context and agriculture is going through this amendment. It's not two and a half billion increases, it's a budget increase of 3.32 billion and it's about 8.11% more than it was in the previous year. What would make me welcome this kind of thing to increase agricultural isolation, that's good, but this problem with this amendment, because it doesn't comply with the law. That is the basic problem of this amendment, because it has no balance in the opposite of Article 28. Budgetary system law. It is doubtless that agriculture is one of the things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia insists on and the measure of our determination is, in fact, this budget, to make things better. And after two years of fund cuts, we have a budget increase. Also, the part of your amendment consists of a section relating to local self-government units. I believe that all local self-government would be as happy as there would be a legal possibility for this to be realized, because three billion dinars are not small, it's a budget of one local self-government that has 100,000 inhabitants. It's a serious separation. But what's the problem, you don't have the criteria for redistribution and three billion, as you predicted, is not contained in a particular part of the budget and that's the problem. There are rules of play, rules laid down by this House of the National Assembly, how the funds are allocated. It's nice in the story, but it's not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8552	I thank you, Minister Nedimovic. Mr. Alexic, I don't see you mentioned in a negative context. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8553	Mr. Minister, you're talking about form here, I'm talking about essence. If we want to do something, we'll find a way. We've had 24 hours to propose amendments and it'll be perfectly normal that we've made certain failures. In that time, we needed 1300 old people to examine. As for the concrete proposals for agriculture, I commended you, because there is a slight increase, but I believe that it is not enough and that the government should save elsewhere, not at 630,000 registered agricultural holdings in which it works a million and 450 thousand people employed, actually daily in these holdings and they do their job. So if you give 15 and a half billion, almost 16, actually 15 and 800, subsidies to the railways, and you give 30 and something billion to agriculture, I don't see any logic there. As far as local self-government is concerned, of course, the criteria are not defined by us, nor could the amendment determine that. This determines the law, it determines the government, and if you wanted to replace the 4.8 billion you took to reduce deficits to cities and municipalities in Serbia, it could have returned at least one part. I didn't ask for everything back, I asked for just one piece of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8554	Mr. Minister, I will give you the replica, because I think it is important that you answer the question asked by Mr. Alexic. Here you go. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8555	I would like to thank you in that section relating to support in the agricultural part in the principle debate. But what is very important is to say at this point that, as far as agriculture is concerned, we have a systemic approach to the increase of funds and that is what our idea is and I think we will have full capacity to in 2017 these funds that are defined and realised on the ground. We'll be in front of us in the next few days and special laws regarding agriculture, and then we'll be able to discuss the specifics of how we plan to implement it, but, as far as I remember, you've been making budgets for a long time, so I don't see any reason for you 24 hours being a little bit of time. You have experience in that part, you've made budgets, then you probably know how to write amendments. Of course, once again I want to say that I noticed, not just with you, but in a few more places, commendable words about agriculture. It's actually one thing that says enough that agriculture is an important thing, that its role is recognised, and in accordance with this budget is the measure of our determination as far as we intend to commit ourselves to this part of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8556	Thank you. Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the First Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8557	Thank you. We are amending to Article 1. The Budget Act was proposed to add positions 7 and 6 which would read - each quarter, no later than the tenth day of the month following the previous quarter, and for the previous quarter, each budgetary user is obliged to provide information to the Ministry of Finance exactly how much of the budget was spent on all budget items, and for each budget item, the Ministry is obliged to publish on its website a list of all the beneficiaries of the budgets received, the amount of funds received, as well as the number and date of the contract under which the funds were received. Therefore, it is the principle of transparency in the management of the property of the Republic of Serbia, public funds and, above all, the principle of transparency in spending the money of the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. Why do we feel that transparency is important? Because secret contracts form the basis for corruption and do not give citizens the right picture of the results of policies implemented by their money. Examples of secret contracts are, for example, a purchase agreement between JP NIS and Russia's Gazprom, where citizens absolutely do not have enough information to say whether or not the property of the Republic of Serbia has been sold into depravity. The secret contract, for example, also the JAT co-operation agreement and the UAE Etyhada: For example, citizens should know transparently that "Er Serbia" from the state received 48.7m euros from taxpayers in 2015, two million euros in 2015, 70m euros in 2014, 1.4m euros in profits from 2014 and that 30.6m dollars in airport was forced to write off claims from "Er Serbia". So that's the price the taxpayers paid to make "Er Serbia" profitable. Citizens should know transparently that the profitability of "Er Serbia" is conditioned by the grip in their pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8558	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8559	This amendment cannot be accepted because in the second part of the second sentence the second sentence requires the publication, or the publication of information protected by other laws as personal information. The opposite is directly to Article 74. The law on payment services, and literally contradicts that member, which says – business secret is considered the data that is in the course of business... the payment service provider refers to the payment service user, including personal data, as well as payment transaction data, balance and changes in the payment account of the payment service user. What's allowed is already there and we're reporting it. So we need to find a possibility, and we are in favour of reporting to the public and all the users of the funds and parliament about the implementation of the budget, but as part of what is allowed by law. You already have, as part of the current reports, very detailed information on budget implementation. Look at this information and try within the law to propose an extension. This kind of expansion that contradicts other laws cannot be accepted as an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8560	Mr. Guric, you've been given the answer to the questions you've asked. You didn't mention it. By amendment, you can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8561	In the attitude that we have suggested to be the 7th, we have stated, not only are information declared secret by the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8562	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8563	I'll proceed partially to my predecessor. In fact, we have submitted a number of amendments concerning the introduction of transparency in budget spending, concerning the spending of taxpayers' money. I just want to remind you one more time, the money is in the budget, it's not the state's money, it's the taxpayer's money that's collected from them through various types of taxes, contributions, etc. I would ask the following – has any analysis of the policy effects of subsidies being carried out in Serbia for about 10 years, when the budget was proposed? So, let's say, we could know when it says in the budget -- for direct investment incentives, 1.2 billion dinars are given, or, let's say, right below that -- investments of particular importance of 11 billion dinars, is there any analysis that says what happened to that money, with similar quantities, with similar resources, in the previous period? We have 10 years of experience, 10 years of subsidized policy, and in 10 years of experience, no single analysis. Can we still grant subsidies? Suppose, as counterpart Kovacevic said, the subsidies were good and Milton Friedman really said the subsidies were good. Can we know what effect this gives in the case of Serbia? I can't support any budget in which I don't have that kind of analysis and in which someone asks me to work and support something that doesn't have any analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8564	Thank you. The word first has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8565	Thank you very much for asking. We have, in time, defined this area of investment, i.e. supporting incentives, by the Investment Regulation, and afterwards by the Investment Law, in which the methodology defined and the dissemination of responsibility is defined, including several ministers in this team who decides and restricts their decisions to professional proposals, on the basis of which this stimulation is carried out. So everything in law and procedure has been done to respect what is as standard in all countries in the world. There's also a definition of the effects report. I'm partially familiar with these results and they're pretty good, regardless of what the government in public seems to be sharing that money around. The very fact that many investors have to pay back, i.e. to give up planned amounts because they fail to meet the very sharp criteria set, is what best tells us. The amendment as you have suggested, unfortunately, cannot be accepted in this form, but what I can do, the list of things I've heard, the good proposals I've heard, which is that you especially get a report on the realization of this, as well as the report of this new RAS agency, which unites regional and these stimulations, and that they regularly report to parliament on what has been done in the past, where we have effects, what is currently being done and what we expect in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8566	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, of course this is absolutely unacceptable. Mr. Minister, this was not at all about any transparency, or the publication on the websites or these things we've heard about. This is the amendment - it's deleted. And one of those amendments of the same proposing in the series of, how many there are, one seven pieces, which have the same content, or have no content. Those are all the amendments. They are wiped out. I was sincerely hoping that we wouldn't have to discuss this at all today. Because this absolutely does not honor anyone who has submitted such a proposal, who, as an explanation for erasing one member after another, is quoted as saying: “The draft budget law for 2017”. That's why we need to wipe out a member? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a classic abuse and this is only for someone here to give a two-minute speech from a member to a member. This is absolutely not an honor to whoever's doing it. But it also shows the seriousness and attitude to work, as well as the attitude to the National Assembly and to everything that needs to be meant. This is a relationship with the citizens of Serbia. And if this is how anything is done in the National Assembly, I think it only shows enough about what some people can expect in politics. I don't think it's worth spending another second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8568	According to the amendment, MP Dusan Pavlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8569	Transparency is introduced by posting reports on the ministry's website, or agencies, or funds, of what happened in the previous period. So, it's totally fine if there are these analyses. I've never heard of one before. But if there are, then they need to be placed on the site so that they exist, that they can be within their reach not only of those who talk or demand it, but of anyone who wants to see what this is about. It's a policy of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8570	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8571	Mr. Chairman, I will only read the official data delivered by the motionary. We are in December 2016, when full capacity is expressed in the realisation of the 2016 budget. The budget plans for the budget deficit to be 87.8 billion dinars, to total the fiscal deficit as 121.7 billion dinars, to report as a change in the state of the account something that is positive, i.e. an increase in cash by a billion and 179 million dinars. We were neatly informed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia of what it was doing in the first nine months. So she said, "There is no budget deficit. There's a surplus of 57 billion. “ In the net funding, she said – minus 27,190 million dinars, and in the change in the account they said – there is no positive, Mr Milicevic, but negatively, this is a reduction in cash funds by 30,545 billion dinars. So that's something the government said, and that makes us bound. Article 2 The draft budget law concerns the financing bill, and since we have heard so much commendation on the account of all this that was done in the year 2016, I believe that a major error has been made, mathematically, in Article 2, because it says that much greater funding is needed to finance the budget deficit, and we do not have it for the purchase of financial assets. Let's just say, last year we were in charge of 662 billion dinars, and for 2017, you're asking it to go up to 858.8 billion dinars. Last year, this year, Serbia took loans, planned 90 billion dinars. You're planning 150 billion dinars for next year. This year, Serbia is in charge of broadcasting securities on the domestic market for about 450 billion dinars, for 2017, asking for Serbia to be in charge of broadcasting securities from incompetent banks in Serbia for 583 billion dinars. You are asking for Serbia to spend 124.5 billion dinar Eurobonds next year, and this year only 122 billion dinars. These are all the proposals, and this is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't want to change anything for you, but we said, if 2016 is successful, we continue to be successful in 2017, so don't be in debt more than you did in 2016. I'm just surprised you didn't accept this amendment. Okay, I'll leave for a replica of praise at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8572	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8573	Mr. Minister, in Article 2. The 2017 draft budget is scheduled for funding deficit budgets, acquisition of financial assets and payment of the main 858 billion. So, about 200 billion more than in 2016, regardless of the circumstances of the budget presentation, and its realisation and the effects of realisation in 2016. Loans from domestic and international commercial and multilateral financial institutions are 150 billion and 583 billion from domestic bonds. So, we did not propose this amendment to a reduction, but only a different structure, because we believe it is not under what conditions the borrowing is under, especially because you often state, it is probably so, but you never mention how much Serbia has really taken on and how much it plans new investments or expenditure that affect the deficits you have shown in this budget. So we predicted that 583 billion will be reduced by 150 billion, so to 453 billion, which has no reason to be unacceptable, and the amount of 150 million, so that same amount, to be transferred and increased from 150 billion to 280 billion. So, we've cited the reasons for the amendment why we think it's more favourable. The explanation I received for why the amendment is not accepted is that it is not accepted for reasons because it is necessary to develop the market for dinar state securities of value in order to reduce public debt exposure of the Republic of Serbia to foreign exchange risks. So, without any parameters, without any estimates, without any projections, if that's the case, then the question can be asked why are these 150 billion that you're predicting borrowing from domestic or foreign banks or international financial institutions is not on government bonds, because, even moreover, the market for state securities of value would be developed in the context of the rejection of the amendments. Therefore, the terms of borrowing in securities of value, in domestic and international financial institutions, are not the same, we believe that in this way it can be saved and I am really surprised, why at least some more substantive explanation of the rejection of this amendment is not given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8574	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8575	Let me just have a brief explanation. We've already talked about this part of funding, so we're going back to what gross borrowing means, or net borrowing. This digit depends grossly on several elements. One element is the achievement of individual instruments during 2017, so they're the equivalence of maturity per year, depending on when some instruments are issued when they arrive and when we have to either return them or refinance them. So the 859 figure that I have with me, excuse me, 858, I don't know what number in the budget anymore, but 860 billion is surrounded by a gross figure that includes the amount of paper issued by the Republic of Serbia, plus the planned debt according to the plan that we expect to be realised, plus the deficit. The deficit is 69. To explain this difference you're talking about, 540 billion came in last year, 790 billion this year. The difference is, first of all, in something that is absolutely not a matter of budget, but a matter of structure, borrowing and other elements that are involved, the activation of certain guarantees and everything else that is happening. It is crucial here that the state, when it notices that there is a situation that we can significantly reduce the cost of interest, can refinance some instrument, or some early payment obligation, which is already a question of public debt management. There's no secret here, the state here, mostly, gives a minimum of the necessary funds for gross and net borrowing. Last year, the figure included 121 billion at the level of the republican deficit financing budget, and will certainly be lower, is now projected at 80 billion, and will be smaller than that, and this year 69 billion. They're the size they're detached.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8576	The People's Parliament, Gorica Gajic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8577	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I am very pleased with your explanation and your finding that there are no secrets here in general in the entire budget. We have proposed, i.e. I have suggested that Article 2 be changed by adding a new position of 7 which is to say that the Ministry of Finance, within a month of the adoption of the budget, submits a report on loans from domestic and foreign financial and commercial institutions and foreign governments which are not used, which are paid for by foames, i.e. interest. The explanation of why this amendment is rejected is that duties are regularly published on a monthly basis on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance and the Public Debt Administration. I looked at the Public Debt Administration website, and I found all this data concerning loans that are active, how much debt we owe us, from which we're in debt, which are interest, but I didn't find any data about what credits we voted in the Assembly, which we didn't withdraw, and we're paying for certain foams. It was just the subject of this amendment, and I really don't see any reason why the Ministry wouldn't come out with it. You are aware, both of you and all of us here in the Assembly, that over the previous years there have been several such loans that we have ratified in the Assembly, which have not been withdrawn in time, and on this basis the state pays a certain penalty, or pays interest, even though we have not begun to realise them. I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know how we manage loans, how effective we are at exploiting them and how much it costs us, so that we can ultimately simply have parameters as much as the government, or certain ministries, are certain projects, how effective they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8578	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8579	I fully support this request of yours. All we have to do is agree on a date. So, a month, but deadlines to make sense, this budget goes into effect on January 1st. We can commit ourselves, we don't have to put it in the Budgetary System Act, and we can, or in the 2017 budget. We will not give the balance of debts with 31 December, i.e. the state of all ratified and active loans, and the rates and inter-kalay interest to be paid, one month after the end of this budget on 1 January. It's a term we've, I mean, been using historically for a long time. So that's all these "fiz end sheets", all that's paid for on loans that have been activated, and no funds have been withdrawn. My question to the president, or to the chairman, in which way the formulation he writes here is not precise enough. We can make a commitment that we will give within a month the state of those loans with the date, with 31 December 2016, i.e. with the state we're entering in the next financial year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8580	Mr Lapčević, by amendment you have the right to an additional five minutes as an MP who does not belong to any parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8581	Yeah, just for a little while. I thank Mr. Minister for his understanding. I think the procedure is simple, that the Finance Committee can accept what you suggested during the debate. It is perfectly acceptable for us to publish these data within a month of the publication of the budget, so by 31 January. I think that would be quite correct for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8582	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Yes, the Word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8583	I would like to ask a question concerning the Ministry without a portfolio for regional development and public enterprises. This new ministry, by the way, has been made available, as far as I can see over 200 million dinars for regional development and public enterprises. I'm interested in the next thing, which is why regional development policy was taken from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, since it should naturally be her policy, or...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8584	Mr. Pavlovic, please, I will make up for your time, just for a second please, I will make up for your time, but I ask you to return to the amendment, I do not see any touching points between what you are saying at the moment, and as regards the Ministry of Regional Development and the amendments that you have submitted to Article 3 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8585	Can I finish it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8586	You can if you talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8587	Of course, I'm talking about it, you just need to hear the whole exposure. In the economy ministry, there is also one part relating to regional development that is projected by 1.6 billion dinars in the budget. In the economy ministry, there is a detailed specification of what regional development means, so now it has this support for regional infrastructure, support for business development, so I can know when a year goes by what money is spent on, and whether it's spent well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8588	Mr. Pavlovic, I cannot allow myself as chairman to continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, and I would continue if I would allow you to continue to talk about a subject that does not have, I repeat, absolutely no touching points with the amendment. You can ask questions in the days when it is scheduled, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and we are currently talking, I repeat, about the amendment that you have submitted to Article 3 and which is "expunged". Do you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8589	Yeah,
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8590	No, you're not explaining, you're asking a question about the Ministry of Regional Development, I'm listening very carefully. Please, you'll get your word, but get back to the amendment. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8591	I suggest that any member in which there is no way to determine whether the money provided for consumption is spent at the end of the year. Is this good, fellow chairman? You want me to do it again. I suggest you delete any member who doesn't guarantee me that the money that's supposed to be spent on a store, within some ministry, will actually be spent. When you look at the ministry, or the Minister without a portfolio for regional development, I have no idea what a man's gonna spend his money on. It writes only regional development, and there are several other ministries within this budget that are also dealing with regional development. Now, if I may ask, if you'll excuse me, which is why so many places...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8592	My colleague Pavlovic, I'm definitely going to have to take your word from you right now. So, I've asked you twice, I have no reason third time, and I don't want to suggest, I'll take your word for it, because you're not talking about the amendment you've submitted. You're asking me if this is good enough, whether it's good enough or not, I'm not going to decide, but MPs in voting day. Thank you. The violation of Rules of Procedure Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8593	Thank you. Dear Chairman, 103, 104, 107. I have reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, by the way, that you have responded, but at the end of the day you have to take the first notice to take away his word, I am talking about a previous speaker, a team before, that we have MPs from across the street, who are constantly suggesting that we have to stick to the agenda, take care of parliament, work, etc., what's on the agenda, and just to say to the citizens, he wrote the amendment "clear out". The only thing he didn't say about his amendment was, and here they teach us lessons every day so we have to stick to the agenda, the first ones don't do it. I ask you that in the future, when you first warn them, and they continue to behave as they behave, and to disobey your warning, to take away their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8594	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I am convinced that you realized that I had a good intention and wanted to direct the MPs in the direction you were talking about, which is to talk about the proposed amendment. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8595	The proposed amendment cannot be accepted. I was recently led astray by the difference between the amendments and what my colleague was saying and I apologize for it. The expropriation of Article 3 would mean that the obligations of the Budgetary System Act are first violated. Two, it would mean that MPs for information on what guarantees we expect in 2017, which project and programme sources of funding are expected and what state of credit the colleague has just asked us to give more precisely on the day of entry into force of this budget. Therefore, these are members of a. b. and v. of Article 3. Deleting this member, removing this information and paralleling our efforts to reflect project loans in article 8 of the budget would be reducing transparency, removing information that is important for the decision-making and thus removing information from the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable for this member to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8596	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8597	I thank the chairman. My amendment concerns the abolition of guarantees for public enterprises, parts of guarantees, specifically related to EPS and ESMs for the simple reason that according to the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, public enterprises have been assessed and I repeat this for the third time, as the biggest problem of the 2017 budget. Therefore, expenditure on public enterprises in the 2017 budget is 40 billion dinars and are in fact the biggest threat to the Serbian economy. Although Serbia has committed itself under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU to no longer subsidise public enterprises, this is now continuing in another way, which is the issuing of guarantees from the state to public enterprises to be in charge of business banks. That's why we have a budget situation today that even at the last minute, the deficit has been raised by a billion more. Because they came to collect some of the guarantees issued by the Republic of Serbia for their public enterprises that are the biggest losers. I also mean "Serbigas", "Galenika", "Er Serbia", and I mean "The Railway", which, in addition to guarantees, we give 15.8 billion dinar subsidies again. So Serbian citizens cannot pay the price of unreformed public enterprises. In five years, you have failed to reform a single public enterprise and thus to make savings and reduce the deficit, not to reduce it from your own pockets, by cutting their pensions, by reducing their salaries and by implementing them with a non-selective savings, primarily aimed at the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore believe that with this practice, it is necessary to suspend and abolish the provision of guarantees for public enterprises that are losers and cancer in Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8598	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8599	First of all, I have to point out that this government has made a major shift in the restructuring of public enterprises over the last two years. I have to remind you of those projects we're working with the World Bank, EPS, "Serbiagas", "The Railways," and there are really good results. I repeat, "Srbigas" has not made a gas debt dinar since 2014, the old debt returned, the EPS is in a serious restructuring process, serious financial indicators based on loss cuts, payment increases and operational efficiency, today there are over 500m euros in its account. When it comes to guarantees, I also talked about it in principle, we have guarantees primarily for "Electroprivred Serbia" and for "Electro Networks of Serbia" towards the German Development Bank. These are guarantees that bring back "Electroprivrede Serbia" and "Electro Networks of Serbia". Why is there a guarantee? Because that achieves the lowest possible interest rates. So, I repeat, this will not be a burden for Serbian citizens, these are projects of the type "Trans-Balkan Corridor", to which KEF also gives a grand amount of 6.6m euros. So it's not about any further chain of creation of certain public enterprises that will be returned by Serbian citizens. That's the past. That's how it used to be. There's no more of that. This particular government has broken up with such a practice. The only item where we may all support together is this last one in that category of loans, a loan to the Czech Export Bank for the needs of the public company Resavica, but in the function of increasing their production and reducing subsidies. So, again in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8600	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8601	With respect to what Mr. Antic is saying, I just have to say that, in addition to guarantees, we continue with subsidies. I also spoke earlier about "Serbian Railways", which are 15.8 billion in the budget, and the plan of the ministry and government is to shut down the 800km railway through Serbia. So it doesn't work out somehow with each other. If we shut down certain corridors, I don't know why we continue to grant subsidies to such companies that have proven themselves to be very large losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8602	Thank you. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from LJupka Mihailovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8603	Thank you. Like most of the amendments I have submitted in line with the policy represented by the DJB, the amendment concerns transparency. Before that, I would like to commend the World Bank loan for the project of inclusive preschool education and education, and I hope that the Ministry of Education will continue on this path, since we have heard that there is some initiative to amend the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, but I hope that nothing will change in this segment further. Also, the Bank's loan for the Development of the Council of Europe for the construction of a children's clinic in Tirshevo, I am sorry that it is not explained whether it is referring to the reconstruction of the existing or the construction of a new one, but it is very important and I think it will really improve the quality of our children's treatment, because it is one of the best, if not the best children's hospital in Serbia. The amendment specifically says, supplement after item 2. – all guarantees issued by the Republic of Serbia will be published on the Internet presentation of the Government and the Ministry of Finance by the fifth month for the previous month. We believe that it is important that these data stand transparently published and that I do not understand why this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8604	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8605	Thank you. I'm just confirming what the MP said. It is a serious project that has been in collaboration with the World Bank since February 2017, and we are raising the quality of pre-school education in full, with a huge coverage of children, especially in devasted areas, rural areas, where inclusion is particularly taken into account, as well as reform of pre-school curricula and programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8606	Thank you. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8607	Thank you, Chairman. We have foreseen this amendment that all guarantees given by the state and all borrowings are published on the Government website and on the Ministry of Finance site, which will give the professional and general public a clear insight into where we are in charge, and since we know that, mainly from these borrowings, foreign investors will be financed and subsidies, the simple work of the Government will be more visible. In this way, you will also spare the prime minister from being caught in a lie, as it was two days ago when he said that "Endavi" would not give money, because he was aware of the strong resistance the IT industry provided domestically. However, he was already denied the same night because black on white in the draft budget law says money is foreseen for "Endawa". The minister of his own government, whom he himself chose, also confirmed that the decision had not been made, whether money would be given to them or not, and reaffirmed that the prime minister here had lied to all of us 250 MPs. So, if you have nothing to hide, you will accept our amendment, and MPs will also prove that they are not voting machines, that they are thinking with their own head, as they failed to prove when they did not accept our proposal to discuss the NDH genocide against Serbs here, when they accepted that Serbs would be sent to prison if they denied genocide and when they accepted that the Agreement on the establishment of the Balkan Fund with Kosovo, signed by Hashim Thaci and by Jadranka Joksimovic, which we could all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8608	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8609	Thank you very much. I'm not exactly able to combine what you said with the amendment proposal. If I read correctly, your amendment reads – all guarantees issued by the Republic of Serbia in 2017 will be published on the web presentation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance no later than the seventh day of the month for the previous month. We have clearly written in the explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the obligation on a monthly basis is published on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance – Public Debt Administration. So it already exists and there's no need to add it to the budget. That obligation already exists and is regularly executed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8610	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8611	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm always unusually happy with every right to a replica that comes from the other side of the hall, because it gives space to expand a little light on some subjects and some people. I have to start with regrets for what just happened, which, in the debate on the amendment, heard everything that was heard. That's a lot of regret. There was absolutely no need for that. It could have been what was suggested to be explained. There is an answer by the government, it could be discussed, the answer is concise and the minister was now very precise, but unfortunately this is another one of those amendments that we got to talk about something that wasn't changed, which is something that only interests whoever suggested these things and who's doing these things in this room, so that there's talk about both the Prime Minister and some very imaginative structures. It's a shame he didn't have the courage to have the man who yesterday, excuse me, the day before yesterday, and perhaps the day before that, address the Prime Minister, reading with dramatic moments, quite eloquently, but very hasty, in obvious panic-stricken fear, some speech from the paper. There's nothing to add to the scene that we've seen all of us sitting in this room. All the way down here to our benches, you could see how his hands were shaking while he was holding that paper. I think it's at some point and I shut myself out of the system. It's a shame he didn't have the courage to say this in person, but he had to hire his colleagues to do it. There is no right to plead, this man, not about NDH, not about Kosovo and Metohija, not about anything else on the subject. He has no right to say that to us, it can explain it to his friends who, among other things, claimed that Serbs from the Serbian province had expelled themselves. To honor and face him. Another note, that he doesn't abuse his colleagues anymore, because he's not male. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8612	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8613	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. - dignity. My personal dignity is constantly being violated here. I know it's incomprehensible to someone who's a member of the SNS that an MP can think for himself, but I assure you that I am doing it and I can do it. I'm thinking with my head, I'm telling the truth, no matter how much it bothers you, and especially about violence, whenever you say that the one who can defend himself is a bully, you insult me, because I have repeatedly repeated that I would never support anyone who is violent. Therefore, if your truth hurts, it's only your problem. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8614	My colleague Janjušević, please, now use the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate fellow Orlic, which I cannot allow, and otherwise I am fully convinced that each of the 250 MPs in this room is thinking with his own head. Please, do you want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8615	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that article 109 has been broken. – the notice shall be made to the MP if he uses swearing, offensive expressions and if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. You know, we've had one situation here that offends other MPs, specifically and fellow Eagles, by someone telling someone not to think for themselves. It's a pretty big insult. Someone may see themselves in that whole story, but don't treat others if you feel that way about yourself. We don't think about Mrs. Jasmine Vujic's head from Berkeley University in the U.S. We don't need the U.S. Army to write what we have to say in the assembly and we don't have to read written speeches. We have our own head, we can say what we think absolutely freely, and those who hold papers and who have written speeches by Mrs. Vujic could, of course, second time not do such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8616	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8617	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I don't think it's very clear to me that the distinguished colleague Orlic just won the line. I'll agree that my colleague may have broken the Rules of Procedure. I think, colleague Orlic, that's what you should have... I'm sorry, but I don't get it, so we wouldn't go into this story to cut it, to go. I'm not going to ask for an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8618	Comrade Vesovic, I fully agree with you. You can't get a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure first, and the second one, you don't even have a basis for replication, it was the violation of Rules of Procedure the third thing, why did I give Mr. Orlic my word? Because at least two or three times was mentioned by SNS President Aleksandar Vukic. It is the basis that Mr. Orlic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, has the opportunity to get a replica. I agree with you, Mr. Vesovic, and I will honor your suggestion. We're moving on. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry that at this moment the minister is not here because I have prepared some specific questions for him. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns the forgotten budgeting of this year's debt, which is worth 10m euros to the Development Fund for certain construction investments. However, how did the Government answer me in an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that during the summer of this year, more precisely on July 22nd, an early payment of that debt was made, I am asking the question, so it is likely that later on, a young colleague will pass on to the minister to answer me – how can you do so in such a way that, under the Public Debt Act, you are not able to do any amortisation during the financial year? Or maybe this is a way to get rid of all the tails from the past left by the Democratic Party because, you know, Mr Antiću, you are also a witness to that and Mr Nedimovic, that the loans from the Development Fund at that time could only be obtained by Zombies and his friends. Now guess who that zombie was. But in any case, the Development Fund is completely corrupt and although categorisation has been made from the least to the most underdeveloped areas in Serbia, few of the ordinary people without political influence and the relationship of that period could achieve such a thing. So the first question is – how is it possible to violate the Public Debt Act in such a way? My second question was, since it relates to debt payments, and I will finish by explaining this amendment, I have not heard either in the address of the prime minister or finance minister – what is your expectation that participation and how much of the construction industry will be in the gross domestic product next year, it is only 4%, in order for the construction industry, which should be the momentum of the Serbian economy, because we have really companies that have been celebrated everywhere in the world and which, in the right sense, are building nemarations, could encourage, therefore, further development? If it's not just a part of the transport infrastructure, let's say, it's a creamworth for Minister Antića, what he expects in the field of energy, so the participation of the construction industry, when it comes to energy infrastructure further in Serbia or for Mr Nedimovic, when it comes to the Development Fund, what its impact will be for his ministry to credit for young farmers from the Development Fund, for new cultures, and you know what I mean, because I don't have time now, because agriculture, construction, tourism, is the only development opportunity at this time to fix the situation in the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8620	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8621	Dear colleagues, since we can't do business and colleagues, Antić and I will take the opportunity. He believes that energy is also important as a chance for development, of course. In this section regarding the Development Fund and the Ministry of Agriculture, we are currently negotiating a special line of credit for young agricultural producers and processors, and these funds are provided in Serbia's 2017 budget. I hope that during January or February, we will complete this work and a special programme for the realisation of these funds at the Serbian Government. So far, directly and strictly for agriculture, that was not possible. It was possible to apply exclusively through the cooperative reporting phases, possibly legal entities dealing with the processing process, now will be possible for all those participating in the system of agricultural production functioning. I want to say that we have succeeded through the institutions and through the government of Serbia to realize. This only tells us that the idea of young agricultural producers is to encourage them to go to a higher level if they are engaged in some type of agricultural production and thus to receive certain funds, on the other hand, to obtain favourable credit conditions so that they can realise their agricultural production. We will also have two more lines independent of the Development Fund, one in communication with the EBRD, and the other through direct support through the Agency for Agricultural Payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8622	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8623	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must commend the wish of a colleague who has proposed this amendment to help the government solve some accumulated problems. But I just have to point out one fact, as the colleague said, she hopes that the government will be able to solve those "tails" that are left. Unfortunately, they're not tails, they're nooses around their necks and it won't be that easy to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8624	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Jovo Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8625	Dear Chairman, Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 161 of Rule 1 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, No. 20/12, Clean text, are submitted to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, the next amendment - Amendment 3. In Article 3. The draft law, under V) The state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, under II, direct obligations, external debt within the regular number 1 point 9) of the title of the debt of IBRD Corridor 10, the euro debt situation is 224 million 808 000 353 dinars, replaced by the amount – 172 million 751 000 476 dinars. Explanation: proposed solution, amendment of Article 3. The bill, an explanation of the proposed solution: the amendment meets the obligation of 172 million 751 000 476 euros, and it is not known that this amount has risen to 224 million 808,000 353 euros, and the first payment war comes to 15. Ten. 2017. What is the objective of this amendment? Legal and technical adjustment of the standard, assessment of the impact of the proposed solution on budgets. We'd like to know, the Serbian Radical Party, what caused the replacement and change of these figures? There's a story here about one, and when we look at the budget, all the other numbers show up. Because of the weather, I can't explain it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8626	Thank you. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8627	Mr Milicevic, all of our amendments to Article 3 refer to part of that article under c – state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Budget System Act, when it comes to the budget, public debt needs to be shown. It's been showing for years, and it's always at the 31st of October of the current year. I read your data, you say it's "31. In October 2016, the state of public debt is 24 billion 591 million 567 000 152 euros. “ Let me remind you, in the 2016 budget, you wrote that the debt on the 31st of October 2015 was 24 billion 328 million 169 000 856 euros. When these two figures are compared, we come to the conclusion that a public debt of 263m 397 000 296 euros has been increased in the Republic of Serbia by a year. That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia tells us. The fact that journalists write that the public debt has fallen, the government says it is not true. This amendment, which we have submitted, relates to this paragraph 1), 15 – IBRD, Risk Insurance Project in the event of elemental disasters. In the 2016 budget, you said the commitment was four million 552 thousand 77 euros. The first payment war comes June 15, 2018. So we're not paying anything this year. But this year you wrote in your budget that it's no longer 4 million 552 thousand, but 4 million 559 thousand. Nothing's changed, and it's growing, it's growing, it's growing, it's growing, it's growing. I don't think there's a culprit with a name and a last name. I think the main culprit was October 5th, who forced all those who think they should be in power to show great love for the EU's path. And this is the price of a trip to the European Union. You'll have other items within Article 3 and you'll see, in a year nothing more important happened, it didn't start paying off the loan, and the loan is growing by 20 million, by 170 million. I think the state should understand these citizens who are in charge of the Swiss francs. They object, they say their loans are invaluable. In a few years, and if they paid off, the retail debt is bigger than at first, when they took the loan, and I get the impression that the Republic of Serbia is in the same position. What I think doesn't matter. It is important that these figures that the government has put into the draft budget law prove that it is so expensive for the European Union that citizens must now think in advance about what our finances will be and whether we will be able to do anything other than insist on paying off loans or, as you boast, to refinance. The refinance pattern is that a 100 million loan, with an interest rate of 8%, say, we return by borrowing at an interest rate of 3%. But the obligation is - 100 million plus 8%. Refinancing is somewhat cheaper, and no rescue is for the Republic of Serbia's economy. It is good that Article 3 exists, and I hope that we will be very soon able to reach agreement in parliament to urgently create an investigative committee that will review all the duties of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the credit, because there has been a huge dispute between the National Bank and the State Auditing Institution and the Ministry of Justice on the level of public debt, on obligations, and I think that a committee of inquiry would be strengthened with specialists or, as they said, forensics for organised crime could help us see how responsible those who convinced us that it was a good way to go to the European Union, regardless of the price we should pay. Now, we're at a stage where we have to pay the price, and every year, no matter how much credit we don't get back, our obligations have to rise headlong. That's the danger. I reserve the right to commend in the replica the Government of the Republic of Serbia for allowing the eyes to be opened and for everyone to see how devastating it is when it comes to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8628	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8629	Given that my colleague Vujovic is not here, I will try to answer all of your questions that were numerous and difficult to pack in two minutes. But first of all, we are absolutely responsible for arguing that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is falling, primarily in relation to GDP. We insist, Serbia's public debt falls from GDP. In 2015 it is 74.7%, and in 2016 it will end with 73.5, meaning 1.2% less. When it comes to the nominal amount of debt on 31 October 2016, yes, that's some cut-off date, please note that these are things that they know have certain amplitudes that are primarily related to the rate of dollars. We have one part of the debt that's tied to the dollar. The US dollar course had dramatic jumps in 2016. When we recalculate it into the euro, it can show such a mathematical tendency. So it's not the result of new borrowings. We didn't have a deficit to reflect it that way. When it comes to your observations about the increase in the amount of credit-related credit-related items, I must say, this column we're looking at, for example, when it comes to the risk insurance project in case of elemental disasters and debt situation, that's not the amount of debt. It's a state of debt at the moment. When you compare it to last year, if there was an increase, that means there was a withdrawal of funds from that credit line. I think that's good. It's good if we already have that credit line that we finally use those funds. At the very end, I think the policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia to refinance unfavourable credit lines is extremely good and will show very good trends in the long term. You said yourself, if we have an 8% loan, and now we're refinanced by a loan below 3%, so that's a capital matter for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8630	Time, Mr. Minister. Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8631	I'm talking about the 2017 budget. If the deficit is projected to be 1.6% and is less than the capital investment in the first variant is 2.1%, or 3.3% and 147.1 billion respectively, and the deficit will be 69.1%, there is no theoretical possibility of a public debt increase. That's one guarantee. There's another guarantee. If the deficit is 1.6% and is less than the GDP growth of 3%, which will amount to a billion and 200 million, it is another guarantee that public debt cannot be increased. Anyway, what's the problem here, gentlemen? When you have three dinars, so the dinar yesterday, the dinar today and the dinar tomorrow, how many dinars yesterday? How many dinars yesterday, how many dinars today, how many dinars tomorrow? When is that three dinars? What's this worth five years ago, what's this worth in ten years? Look, it's financial math. I've taught that financial mathematics for 38 years and now I'm listening to people here who don't fully understand it. And I agree that we should do what counterpart Krasic suggested. It should be on a number axis, so if it's zero today, from 2000, it means minus 16 to the next, say, 16 years in 2030, on a number of axes, to present all the loans that this country took and discount on a given date. It is the only solution to see the overall situation and not to have different writings in different documents. That's my suggestion. I think it's a total misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8632	Thank you, Mr. Yokic. Mr. Krasic, by amendment, of course. Here you go. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. I have to defend the government. ) No, Minister Antic answered the questions you asked, and you get the word after the amendment. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8633	Mr. Milicevic, I said in the replica I'm going to defend the government, and I'm defending the government. Mr. Antiću, 24 billion 591 million is not less than 24 billion 328 million. You just said that. Nicely, the government said in Article 3. Public debt increased by 263m euros. Don't change that. That's nice, precisely done. You guys have headings here where you missed dates, so let's say the last war should be the second ninety-eightth, you wrote twenty-eightty-nine forty years. But it's some mistakes. It'll fix the time, it'll fix the survey board, it'll correct Ubopok, organised crime. Let it go, we will discuss what is Mladino, what is Labusovo, what is Dinkic, what is Vlahovic, what is Cvetkovic, what is it all about Dusan Vujovic's student. To them all Dusan Vujovic brought guitars. It's his frames. We're going to clear all this up for the capital, let the public know. You pay so much and so much from the budget for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that. This investment was spent on this, in this amount, 35% of it never came in, shared the bros with those in Brussels for some services, etc. We'll discuss all this, some favors, etc. We'll discuss it all. We just now want to say - there is no excuse to grow debt compared to 2016 team before nothing started to pay off. Here you have obligations that reach forty eight years. I'm the one who praises you. You didn't understand. I praise you. Why am I praising you? Only 263 million have increased in debt compared to last year. That's a good result. What you think is a bad result, which you now want in relation to GDP, etc. Well, GDP is always a projection, so let it go. This is something real. I support what the government wrote. We only asked amendments to Article 3 to correct technical mistakes, Mr Antic, not fundamental mistakes. We haven't gotten into those essentials yet. We just wanted to tell you, the first war is going on for twenty-three years. Well, how is it possible for 170 million to increase the commitment? It's the finance minister who's counting on me. He said well, we're paying interest on funds you didn't withdraw. You haven't retired yet. What happens when you pull back? Where are we gonna stop then? Then what's the public debt going to be? Please don't fight me with the government. You see, I have not submitted any amendments to Article 8. Why? It's an internal thing. This is something that is the cancer of Serbia, Article 3. That's the price of the road to the EU. That's why I'm grateful to you, because this is the space for citizens to hear what we've been owed from October 5th to this day. I'm not calling you. I call upon all of you who are for the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8634	Thank you. Right on line, Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8635	Mr. Krasic, I am in the good part of this political framework in which you move can agree, but you either listened to me or you didn't understand. I have two messages. The first message is unequivocal, crystal clear and clear. So, the level of public debt relative to GDP, but not to the 2017 GDP projection, but to what has been achieved in 2016 falls. The second thing, therefore, is the public debt and what you see, as an absolute figure, is the result of the only and only growth of the dollar rate. I'll read to you year by year how much the debt per currency was: $8.9 billion in 2015, 8.9 - 2016, 9.9 billion in 2015, 9.8 - 2016. When it comes to dinars: 668 billion dinars 2015, 635 billion dinars – 2016. So a significant reduction in other currencies: 153 billion 144 – 2016. So, the decline in all our currencies, but because of the rise in dollars and his relationship, when we turn everything into the euro, which is done in our budget, there's been this little nominal growth that's not due to our borrowing, but I'm just repeating the only and only growth in the rate of dollars. That's what I kept trying to explain to you a little while ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8636	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8637	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, when it comes to the previous discussion of colleagues, it is a classic replacement of thesis for the simple reason that the gross domestic product and its growth are trying to present itself as a projection. What is an essential indicator and parameter for the economy of a country and for its growth, if it is not a gross domestic product? What kind of projection are we talking about here? When it comes to debt and when it comes to the above-mentioned issues, I think it is not so difficult to borrow, if this borrowing goes into capital investments and what will lead to our country's growth growth and higher levels of investment. I'll just mention some of the developed countries, whose public debt exceeds even 100% of gross domestic product, so Japan is at 120, Germany too. The only question is at what price we are in debt, and surely we are in debt at a much lower price than we were in debt in 2011, 2012. I want to say that it is of great importance that we do "roll over" loans and that the interest rate decreases by 7.5%. So loans are refinanced and three percent is paid. Just compare that with the citizens who are in charge of the euro in our country and who have different types of credit when the interest rate falls and when it falls from seven, 7.5% to today's two and a half to 3% and when they have a chance to refinance that loan. How positively does that affect their budget? It's absolutely not standing and it's not right for this try. So what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing in the past few years, which is that this very rating of our country and the World Bank and Standard and Fitch affects that we can have the capacity to contribute at a lower interest rate, that means that investment in our country is cost-effective, that means that the country is stable and, of course, it will contribute to further growth and further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8638	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Mihajlo Jokic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8639	Because of the citizens, I have to give the exact information I downloaded from the site. At the end of October 2016, the state owed 24.96 billion euros or 73.1% of GDP, and in the republic, there is a republican and there is a government debt, to be understood, the debt is lower and is 24.59 billion euros or 72.1% of GDP. The debt of the state from the beginning of 2016 or the end of 2015 has been reduced by 282m euros, while the debt of the Republic or the debt of the budget has been reduced by 218.14m euros. It's true, it's true, and it's written on the website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8640	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the follow-up, gentlemen of the Ministers, of this amendment, you weren't there, Mr Vujovic, they probably told you, where on legal-technical agreement we wanted to truly show how much Serbia's public debt is. Mr. Zoran Krasic, unrelated to this session, daily informs, in a way that is possible, that Serbia's public is what, on that day and that day, Serbia's public debt is yet to be known and to place the citizens of Serbia's correct data. The number is so astronomical, Mr. Krasic, that at this point, when it comes to dinars, I can't even say it. My question concerns Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister Stefanovic, as this part of the public debt is projected for roads and traffic security. When it comes to roads, one question for a stock from Batocina to Kragujevac, because it is a big scandal and a shame that so far the entire share has not been completed, especially that the project for the tour of the town of Batocin itself, through the forest, as it was one project, and the other for it to be the path of priority, therefore, the first line through enlargement, and no indication of it at the end of 2016. Of course the security of traffic is compromised when you take off the highway to the Batocina, Kragujevac or Lapovo section, however, and from that narrow track you move on the section of the highway that is finished and of course it poses a great danger. Especially, Mr. Stefanovic, because the most savage part of it is daily by outgoing Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and members of his family. You probably have that knowledge, and I'd like you to tell me at this point how many people use rotation? He has the right to do so under the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but the haughtiness of Nikolic and his family on the road, including through the town of Kragujevac itself and through the settlements of Bajcetina towards the Forests and is vice versa. Gentlemen, you have set aside for the Nikolic family helipad, who will leave because of corruption, because of a false diploma, because of all the fraud in history, as an honorable president...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8642	Mrs. Jovanovic, let's go back to the amendment after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8643	I'll be right back. The security of traffic is at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8644	What you're talking about is no touch points...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8645	Mr. Milivoevich, there's a way. I know it best, because I'm Kraguyevchan...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8646	Milicevic, not Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8647	... and I also know how much abuse there is in Nikolic's own behaviour and how members of his family acted in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8648	It has absolutely no touch points with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8649	... When it comes to traffic security. Mr. Vujovicu, there's no need to wave at me anything, because it took you all the time in the O.R. while I was asking you questions you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8650	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Mr Marko Milenkovic. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8651	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment tabled by counterpart Bozidar Delic and I refer to the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically to direct commitments concerning the loan to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We propose an amendment to bring the International Bank into line in 2016 of 156m 673 000 euros, and the next year's budget is projecting it at 179m 293,000 euros. Now, you're saying that 2016 was the best, that in 2016 it was ideal, and this increase in debt for 22 million 620 thousand euros you spoil ideally, according to your parameters in 2016, and you owe us still so much in this small item that represents a drop in the sea of debts, loans, loans that threaten to destroy us as a state and society. You are free to tell the citizens that this is the price our citizens should pay, it is Serbia's movement into the EU. Don't you think she, gentlemen ministers, is too high? This is a question that concerns all topics and all aspects of the EU movement. You said it was nice. Let's see who that's nice for, but it certainly isn't for an ordinary man at all. This money may have been needed, it should have been renewed, but what humanity of this loan that gives us, the answer in the translation reads - brothers from the EU, please don't help us anymore. This debt will be paid by 2044, remember Serbia's citizens well, by 2044 this will be paid by your children and grandchildren, with the start of your 2023 payment, which means that you have eaten bread for the unborn children. Generations and generations will pay the price of your pointless assembling into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8652	Mr. Krassic, by amendment? By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8653	Time of authorized representative. Mr. Milicevic, I only have to read the data that is available to us, which is the data that came with the draft budget law. You see, on page 26 of the Bill's proposal, within the regular number 11, there are, for example, the Unicredit obligation for "Srbigas". The first war started in February 2014, the last one to be on 27 November 2017, which is 2.5m euros, although I think it's much more, two million and sixth and something, but it doesn't matter. On page 28. One point 32. – obligations to "Societ General" - "Gallenika" refinance existing debt to banks. The first war started in 2014, the last one due on 14 March 2019 was once, last year, two million euros, now gone. It's not in the budget. Like the one you just did for "Srbigas" doesn't. One point 34. The AIK Bank is an obligation to "Galenike" refinance existing debt to banks as well, the first war of 2014, and in the last 2019, it is gone. It's not registered at all. (Alexander Antiæ, from the scene: because it is returned. I'd like to remind you that he's being punished by a member of the government. The Law on Public Debt states – during the implementation of the Republic's budget changes cannot be made to the public debt depreciation plan, as well as to the methodology for applying this plan, etc. Why do I have to point this out? Another obligation that exists in the "Serbian" that you have not introduced into the Budget Law, because the finance ministry accuses financial experts of looking twice for modals in Serbia to sell the Commercial Bank, and all these controversial loans are being taken into account that Serbia is making it cheaper to sell the Commercial Bank to a foreigner. Dropped long-term loans from the law. I remind you, both under the Law on Public Debt and under the law of ratification of international contracts, in particular of financial nature, you are required to submit reports on the realisation of any such contract. We never got those reports and you see this kind of sloppyness, where you don't know when the loan starts, where you don't know when the last day of the loan is due, and 38, and in 40 years, we're forced to have reasonable doubts about the public debt situation, and we're coming to the conclusion that there are no final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budgets from 2003 to today. As soon as you do not submit the final accounts, as soon as the National Assembly does not pass the law on the final account, we can reasonably suspect that these loans, these loans, are non-purposely spent, are shared with people from the World Bank, Brussels, with their students in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are tasked with providing claims from foreign banks, investors, regardless of what price they will pay both children and students, and pensioners and all social stocks in the Republic of Serbia. That's why we've opened this topic of Article 3, and we've been waiting a long time to show that this unserious people from October 5th to this day can't run the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8654	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Nikola Savic. Do you want a word? The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Daimanovic and I, have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment refers to the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia and that of its segment relating to the projects of modernisation of schools. Since I have been working for more than 30 years in education, I understand the state of modernization of our schools, and I don't need some sense here to see the state of these schools, and thank God ordinary citizens see it. I'm not going to talk about it this time for the simple reason that this is an issue that takes a lot of, a lot of time. I'm just going to look back on one thing that fell into my eyes here in this draft budget bill. Namely, this is about paying off the principal who only arrived on 16 April 2041. With this amendment, I asked that this deadline be reduced, especially as you can see that the state of modernization of schools is such that it requires much more intensive and much greater involvement of the government and the Ministry of Education. In particular, one fact fell into my eyes, which is that this amount that we're talking about here was exceeding 20 million 968 thousand 892 euros, and now some magical way that amount has increased to 27 million 703 thousand 992 euros. It is simply not clear to me how and why this amount has increased by about seven million euros, especially if we know, although we have seen, that the last war to pay off this principal is in more than 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8656	Thank you. Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8657	Let's explain one of the consummations that has been repeated here in four amendments. It's probably our failure, there's no originally agreed amount of credit here, which is in the ratification documents that was completely public information in front of this assembly. So all the elements here exist, except for the originally agreed principal. Your colleague spoke earlier about a loan where, as you say, he magically increased his debt from 150 to 179. It's a loan, it's called "emergency recovery loan", which the original amount agreed was 227m euros and it's succesively withdrawn and is not yet completed. For nine years, it's been a grace period, and for the next 27 years, it's a loan payment. What you say, as with surprise, as a bad thing, it's a very good thing, it's extremely long deadlines, extremely favourable terms that are given for credits intended to cover damage from elemental disasters. So there are no more favourable loans. It lasts nine years, so in 2014, it was activated, the first amounts were withdrawn to pump flooded spears and continued use for the reconstruction of infrastructure, for agriculture and more. We have more, so count from 2014, nine years, by 2023 we will have the right to withdraw funds, or if we use it before. So we're still 227 million away, we still have that space 21 plus 27, 48 million. We may not pull back, but it's a deadline and it's available funds. So it's the first dilemma and all these questions you repeat, it's the exact same situation. These are active loans where the asset withdrawal period has not yet expired and we, when we meet, meet the conditions for the use of the loan, so we withdraw the funds, the credit situation changes, and therefore the main one that is ahead changes. When we pull to the end, then the principal will stop growing and when the repayment period comes, then it will begin to decrease. Therefore, there is no dilemma, this is all public information both with us and with the World Bank and with the IBRD and with all international organisations. Full transparency of information. As for the previous discussion on the situation when the course is changing and when loans are made in other currencies, except for the dinar...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8658	Minister, if you'll excuse me, time, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8659	... Except for the dinars, then it's logical that the debt situation changes when the courses vary, you can very easily check, on the Public Debt Administration site there are amounts in dollars, in euros and in dinars and you can see for yourself whether certain categories are increasing or just the total amount shown in euro.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8660	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8661	I was here, talking first of all about a project to modernise schools. We can see from this bill that the principal's payment will be in 25 years. My idea is to tell you, to warn you, that it's not in agreement with what's really going on in the field. We're going to pay the next 25 years, it doesn't matter what the amounts are, and whether they're favourable or unfavourable, I'm not going into it right now, because I'm not an expert on finance, but for 25 years we're going to pay off the principal for school modernisation projects, and on the ground, nothing or almost nothing is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8662	Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was brought together by MPs Momcilo Mandic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. The word is Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, the amendment tabled by my colleague Momcilo Mandic and I refer to the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically to direct obligations towards this European Investment Bank for the restoration and development of clinical centres. We propose an amendment to meet the obligation of 18 million 12,000 195 euros in 2016, and now we see that for 2017 it is 34 million 768 thousand 293 euros. How is this difference planned in a year's time by 16 million 756 thousand 98 euros? What you need to tell Serbian citizens is whether it is one of the prices to be paid by Serbian citizens on this devastating road to the EU. Also, it is necessary to agree these payment dates, the last main payment date, which is planned for 2 September 2038 in 2016, and now we see in this plan for 2017 on 28 September 2040. Well, that's what we suggested with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8664	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8665	As far as the sum goes, it's the same explanation again. Meanwhile, 16 million loans were withdrawn and we continue to use it. We had a stalemate due to the problem of completing public procurement for the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, and that is where we have now found a solution. A week ago, the government decided to repeat that part of the competition and continue to implement this project for the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, the Novi Sad Clinical Centre and the Kragujevac Clinical Centre. It's already ending from other funds at the Nis Clinical Center. Thus, the entire set of projects that had an agreed amount of 150m euros, here it means only 20 per cent of the amount planned, and that amount is about half of the original loan. So there are about 116 million unused funds left, which will be withdrawn in the coming years. It's always been a legitimate question – why do these projects go so slowly, why are they so late and what are the intercal interest that we pay? It's a question that we're all dealing with and it's a question where we all have an interest in it being faster, better, more efficient. But sometimes being unprepared and bureaucratic and procedure is quite complex and long, that's another question. In this particular case, except for the European Investment Bank, financing is mainly part of Serbia by providing funding in nature, meaning that the country and other conditions. No cash, but the explanation for your question is the withdrawal of funds between the two fiscal years. There's no other explanation. These deadlines may be adjusted, and maybe there's another explanation, I can't tell you exactly. I think the EIB is giving a deadline of not knowing what time of withdrawal of the last tranche. Each tranche has its own deadline, and if you withdraw funds, then not for the whole loan, but for the last one, a certain number of years will be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8666	Thank you. The word is Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8667	I think the problem is all the problems of the Minister, which we haven't had since 2003. The budget system law requires that we have to have the budget realised for six months, the implementation of the budget for nine months. If all these years, from 2003 to today we had this and respected the budget system, these misunderstandings and these misunderstandings would certainly not have happened. I urge you to pledge that we have to get a final account for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8668	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8669	In this article, i.e. in the work that we propose to delete, talk about those huge debts of public enterprises and the loans that these companies take, take, take, and then cannot repay those loans but are returned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are 29 loans from the company "Srbigas", eight loans from our most successful company "Er Serbia", four "Zelezara", etc. That's exactly where we were talking about where we're proposing to save. Don't save on salaries and pensions, save on loans from public enterprises that act like they're not in trouble at all, as if they're not in debt, even some of these companies you represent us as extremely successful. So in position 1.34, Mr Vujovic, there is something very strange. He says -- a loan where the mains of 2017 are two million 222 thousand 222 euros, the credit raises the company Er Serbia at the Bank "Inteza" a. d. Belgrade, and the purpose of the loan is to maintain the current liquidity. What on earth is this, Mr. Vujovic? You present to us the company Er Serbia, which operates thanks to subsidies and whose losses are covered by Serbian citizens as a successful company that operates with profits. Which is why a successful firm is raising a loan to maintain liquid liquidity. Isn't it enough that they don't pay any fees, no taxes, no fuel, that they're ruining the airport because they have a privileged position in Serbia? Why is Er Serbia, which is presented as a success, raising its loan to maintain current liquidity? Why are the citizens of the Republic paying for this and why is this in the budget of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8670	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8671	When we talk about the loan that Er Serbia took, we have loans that she continued to repay from the previous period, while it was still JAT and here it is about one of the former loan wars. You can take a look. People always forget to look at when the loan was originally withdrawn and when it started to pay off, and you must at some point service those debts you have left. You remember that for JAT in its time, the government allocated 20-30m euros annually, and it was subsidized every year by JAT, which did not advance, it collapsed. No new plane has been purchased, so to say that the increased value, improved company work, bought new assets, increased number of lines, made more profit, no, JAT functioned worse and worse. The planes were average age, I think the last Boing was bought in 1986. There was nothing new. The number of slots dropped, no new destination, no new profit. More and more money was pumped up, the result was very bad, and of course there was such a situation that JAT had to transform, take loans to pay even the basic things that were related to the functioning of this company. Today, Er Serbia is functioning incomparably better than JAT has functioned in every period in the last 10 years, and we have a situation that this company is now achieving positive results. We have a situation where you have direct flights to the world's most important destinations and you have a situation where the government no longer pumps up 30, 40, 50 euros a year. If it was last year and 10, it's 40m euros, better than in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8672	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: only if I have the right to the replica. If not, then I wouldn't answer. No, no, no, By amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Representatives Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8673	Mr Minister, we have submitted to Article 3(3) an amendment proposing to add a position that reads: "The Ministry of Finance will submit a report to the National Assembly on the implemented projects for which guarantees have been issued, loans and loans granted by other institutions". The explanation that the amendment has been rejected states that the amendment is not accepted because all obligations under borrowing are regularly published on the Internet presentation on a monthly basis. We didn't even ask for it, so I'm taking it into consideration, and I'm allowing it not to be understood. What did we really want? We wanted a report on the projects implemented. So we're talking about numbers, we're talking about tables, we're talking about exel tables, so life isn't about that. 39/2MO/LJL As regards the very dynamics of the implementation of projects for which the National Assembly, adopting the Budget Law, issue a guarantee for the realization of a number of projects contained in Article 3, we learn through the media, citizens, and also people's MPs, hyperproduction in the setting of stone foundations, with the announcements optimistic that the project will be completed by the end of 2015, by the end of 2016. I don't think anything bothers you, and you need to reconsider this position and maybe according to the model that you agreed with Mr. Lapčević, without intervention on the text of this legislative project, so you can report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the projects. So, these projects that are listed, so that from the field of energy, from the field of transport, from the field of education, nothing bothers the Assembly being informed of the degree of project realization. If we had such a report, we would not have submitted amendments to Article 5, which will be later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8674	On the 4th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Dusan Pavlovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8675	Article 4 The bill is something really new that is being introduced into our budget system and budget law. So that I don't explain this in detail how it's written, since few people have read about it, it's some sort of review of what the ministry is going to separate money as the participation of the Republic of Serbia in financing or co-financing, so that we can take money from the European Union for some capital, large projects. There are now, apparently, some projects for the Ministry of Transport. But whatever they get, someone goes to jail. Here, the other day, they arrested those who were stealing fuel from the cards. There's also the one who buys diplomas there and sells them. We see, every project that's been reached by the Department of Traffic, something's going on, something's going on. It used to control its projects with helicopters, to see that share of LJig-Preljina, if it's working, if it's not working. As we know, these European funds have melted something, so it would not be good if there were a review of something in the draft budget law that could, in the end, turn out to be a scandal, not to mention something else. Let me comfort you right now, and if you adopt the amendment, nothing gets lost. You already have all of this in article 8, in the appropriate positions, so that in this way you can only show that you are not very specific to the European Union if you accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. If not, then I'll praise you in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8676	Representatives Gorica Gajic, Dejan Sulkic and Milan Lapcevic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8677	We have proposed an amendment to Article 4 to add another post-status 1 position, which will read: "The Office for European Integration – The Monitoring and Reporting Sector for EU Funds and International Assistance, will submit a report on the results of projects financed by the EU to the National Assembly at least once a year. “ In response, i.e. in the context of why this amendment is not accepted, it has been said that it is not accepted for the reasons that amendments to the Budgetary System Act provide for the introduction of a report on the implementation of all programmes, programming activities and projects in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that there is no need in particular to single out projects financed by the European Union. Mr. Minister, that is the point, because we think it is necessary and how should the EU-funded projects be singled out, so that we can measure, that we simply know what we are getting from EU-funded projects and what are we investing in? Let's see what that benefit is from the EU? In general, Serbia has been politically divided for the last 10 years, and perhaps more than 15 years, into those who are headless for joining the European Union, for which the EU has no alternative, and for us, Eurosceptics, which we believe Serbia should co-operate with all EU countries, prescribe everything that is good for it and regulates the state system, but that the measure of co-operation with EU institutions should be determined by the benefit that our country has from it. We have seen here that in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, growing funds are being allocated, which are intended for the work of our institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8678	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8679	I'm gonna keep going through that time I've got to finish thinking, if that's all right? So more and more funds are being allocated to the European Integration Office and other bureaucratic institutions that are with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Over a billion dinars this year will be spent on... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8680	It was an accident. Are you spending five minutes? (Milan Lapčević, from town: Yes. You don't have that. They spent fellow Members of Parliament, before you, five minutes each. What do I do? What did you vote for this Rules of Procedure? (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: I didn't. And you didn't vote? Anyway, we have to put up with it, what do we do? (Milan Lapčević, from the city: You suffer, not me. You won't suffer? What do we do? Zivkovic, Sulkic and Gorica spent those additional five minutes. Only three MPs. Thank you. Minister Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8681	I just want to, for public information, read the explanation that we gave on this amendment. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the amendments to the Budgetary System Act are intended to introduce a report on the implementation of all programmes, programme activities and projects in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so there is no need in particular to single out funding projects by the EU. We also want to know all projects at the level of individual projects and at the level of the entire system. The European Union, apart from this, has so-called Single project pipeline of all projects that enter and have annual two conferences. I will personally advocate that these conferences give a report on the state of the projects, and that in the budget we report on all the effects of the projects and the use of the resources of the Republic of Serbia in the realisation of these projects, both directly and indirectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8682	Thank you. On the 5th amendment, in the same text, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić and Dusan Pavlovic submitted together. Here you go, Reverend Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8683	In Article 5, you have provided for a review of the planned capital expenditure of budgetary beneficiaries for the current and next two financial years. We didn't think this member was necessary. That's why the amendment proposed erasing it, for the simple reason why it's not quite clear what this proposal would really mean, normised in law, when it exists in a particular part of the budget and these checks could only be part of the reasoning. All this stuff you wrote here is part of this particular part of the budget. Now, you explain that you do not accept the amendment because it is contrary to Article 54. Budgetary system law. This isn't the first time. We have two, three interesting amendments that you've accepted, which have nothing to do with this law. You are constantly binding one law to another, so yesterday on the Finance Committee you accepted the amendment to the Law on the implementation of the budget that has not yet been announced, which was only once, when it was at the peak of fame, Gassa Knezevic was saying to apply a law that has not yet been adopted and has not been passed, draft law. There is also an amendment of some MPs to a law that is also not on the agenda at all, and it is somewhere in one of these laws. It's just kind of like it's been done so charlatanically – let it be done. If this review were to be looked at in such detail, if there was enough time in the amendment, and there was no time, then we would have a series of questions, what are all these funds going to be allocated to, but that's what we're going to do when we're on Article 8 with a little bit more details to talk about. So this amendment should be accepted because there is simply no legal basis for it to exist in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8684	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8685	There are several reasons why this member is in law. One is that we have an annual budget, and most capital projects pass a year. First, it is necessary to fully inform MPs about what commitments are being made over the next two years. Note, what you said refers to the first column of this table for 2017. It is true that it is repeated, but in 2018 and 2019 only in Article 5. So if we didn't have this table, you wouldn't know that by accepting commitments from these projects, you'd accept commitments that last for three years, and somewhere more. Secondly, very important, our rules of public procurement would lead to a serious impasse in the preparation and realization of these projects if we didn't have this table, because they call for this table when public procurement crosses the line of the year. So, every year, they'd have to wait somewhere from October to November to the beginning of next financial year so they could dissipate public procurement. This allows them to discuss the purchases that are constantly going through budget years. So the usefulness of this is both transparency and full information of MPs and full information to the public and the continuous process of realising these projects. That's why this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8686	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8687	I understand your intentions, but it's not handled that way. This has nothing to do with public procurement. We do not adopt this, what is foreseen for 2018, 2019, of course, we do not adopt through this budget. Then it can't be the basis for public procurement because it's just an assumption, some assumed amount. It is your intention to say, be transparent, to inform the MPs about it, but it would be much better to notify the MPs officially and through the Law on the spending of the funds so far, i.e. to finally put us on the table and to debate and vote the Law on the implementation of the budget than it may be, and perhaps not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8688	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8689	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment refers to an increase in the Emergency Budget Fund of 200 million dinars. The reason is that we witnessed all the consequences of the devastating floods in 2014, which were in some parts of Serbia 2015 and even in 2016. Unfortunately, this budget does not show a desire to do what we could hear about from the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that, in the coming period, it will invest in the prevention of elemental disasters and will remove all the critical points that have been identified during these floods. So many cities and many territories of the Republic of Serbia were affected by floods, the damages were estimated to have been about a billion euros, according to government representatives. Unfortunately, through the announcement of a new law on emergency situations, the introduction of municipal managers who will be professionally involved in this business, investments in the regulation of water streams, the construction of defence misery, the purchase of equipment, obviously there is nothing because the budget is so small that it could all be realised. So we continue to pray to God that this does not happen again, and we do not do what we should do systematically, which is to invest in prevention, preventing these consequences that we have faced. Therefore, I propose that this position be increased so as to warn what we have already faced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8690	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8691	What is very important is to point out that systemic defence against floods and everything that has happened in the past is one of the priorities that this government is dealing with and deals with in its affairs, under the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry, it has jurisdiction. It is very important to say that on those critical things that have turned out, especially in the Luciani case, we will go through our competent company "Serbian" to the protection procedure, so that we no longer have such a situation. Also, on the other hand, we have also provided funds for the continued systemic approach to these problems to be able to react to these crisis situations both in the Vojvodina area and in the space of Serbia. Consider the Serbian Ministry and Government, we learned very well in 2014, each of us, what this problem means and how to fight it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8692	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8693	The Ministry of the Interior, or our Emergency Sector, cannot act as, for example, the Water Directorate, in accordance with its responsibilities. So the Emergency Sector is here to act at times when an emergency occurs. As for the concrete amendment, you propose to remove 200 million vehicles from the purchase of patrol vehicles, which means that we cannot obtain so many patrol vehicles and thus affect the security of the country, transfer to a part of a capital project that is otherwise developed up to three years and which in the first year has 100 million dinars, in the second 250 and in the last year 500 million dinars. So we are not going to achieve an effect, and in fact we are going to have an impact on the reduction of the number of patrol vehicles, i.e. on the overall security of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8694	You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8695	So, as far as obtaining the basic means of police work, I'm going to talk about it in the second amendment that I have, and of course it's very important, but here I'm talking about concrete things that need to be done and not taken. So last year's 2016 budget envisioned 250 million funds for the Emergency Budget Fund. It doesn't exist, you put him back on the table, I'm talking about it. The biggest consequences of swimming in the municipality of Trstenik were due to unregulated first - order water flows, such as West Morava, which in particular flooded my municipality, the municipality of Trstenik and caused devastating consequences. That's what water companies have to do. Unfortunately, they don't have the funds in this budget either, as it wasn't in the past to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8696	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8697	The money you predicted this would put on the wrong split. You're giving it for example. to get fire trucks, in the sense that we're gonna prevent floods somewhere, buying fire trucks. They're not gonna open the water from the tankers to add. So, this money that's usually being used for the Emergency Sector is used for the purchase of fire trucks, fire department uniforms, fire protection, rescue and search in an emergency situation, the fight against earthquakes. So these are the means that the Emergency Sector reacts at the moment when the emergency situation arises. I understand and, of course, that the Republic of Serbia is making sure that we influence the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be safer. I'm glad that this year we've had less earthquakes, and less floods and less fires than in previous years, it doesn't always affect the country, there's something that affects and nature, and unfortunately data from globally relevant institutions show that in our field, in our area in the coming years, we can expect only stronger weather differences and sharper weather changes, and that we'll have more floods and more fires. These are the things that time affects. Our job is and we can work on it together, I completely agree, our job is and we make up for it in part through donations, and one part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and say, not directly through the budget of the MUP, it affects the procurement of certain equipment for this. But to prevent it, Mr. Nedimovic will be able to say, so through the water companies involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8698	Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8699	Thank you. I submitted an amendment to Article 5 to find out what it was really about when it came to the cost planned at 250 million dinars for the construction of the LJubovija Bridge – Bratunac, so at least it was indicated, and I didn't know how I spent my answer. So we're not against building this bridge, we're not against building the other infrastructure needed to put this bridge into operation, if that's why it's done, because the building of a bridge with access traffic is listed here. I'd like to know a little bit more about this, if we had a report that I was talking about under the amendments to Article 3, a report on the degree of project realization, maybe we wouldn't even be asking questions like this. Therefore, it is known that the 2016 budget did not plan to build this bridge, so the end was planned in 2016 and the opening was planned until 2016. It is known that at the end of November, some damage occurred on the bridge. So that's what's going on. I wanted this amendment to initiate to pay attention to who was actually responsible for the damage, if it was the allocation of additional funds to repair the damage that had taken place. So it's necessary to do. From Minister Mihajlovic we heard, once upon a time, that it was the responsibility of the contractor and that it would cost the state nothing. If that's the case, fine. So we still, at least from this answer we still don't know. The question arises if the state accepts even a partial financing of this damage, the question of responsibility is raised, the question of how to negotiate, the guarantee of contracts, the policy of insurance companies etc., so please pay attention to this very high cost of two million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8700	Ambassador Vujadinović Milimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8701	Indeed, I will say right away, the Honorable President and Honorable fellow Members of the People, that I am a little bit astounded by this amendment. Namely, the amendment comes from the list, at least making a declaration of respect, i.e. for taking care of Serbs in the region in Republika Srpska, Croatia, eventually Macedonia, Hungary. Construction of a bridge between LJubovija and Bratunca through the 2013 Protocol, and simply to my colleagues, let's say that we do not think that it has been sufficiently informed, is foreseen by the signing of a 2013 Protocol, a very significant traffic jam for people in Republika Srpska, and by Serbs living in Republika Srpska, and ultimately by citizens of Serbia living in Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. The bridge is very important for Bratunac and the whole environment because it is a direct connection to Corridor 11 to the highway network in Serbia. I hope the meeting of Republika Srpska and Prime Minister Vukic is under way today. The theme is also one possible highway that will connect Bijeljina and Brcko to Corridor 10. I don't think there's a better way to connect the Republic of Serbia and our citizens through the Drina to their queen, i.e. with Serbia. It's just that it seems to me that he's showing particular concern to today's government. Until now, there has been a declarative concern for Serbs in the region, and I am glad that the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally recognised it as its priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8702	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Schulkic, you are in the system, and what is your basis for reporting? You have no basis for replication. So no one's answering Article 5. On Article 6 of the amendment in the same text, National MP Zoran Zivkovic, together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojić, joint MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vuković and Vesna Marjanović, and MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has first, the People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8703	This amendment is a logical continuation of the amendment to Article 1 which I spoke about earlier. So that's one systemic, different approach. It represents the abolition of subsidies for the economy, for those specific subsidies and some others. In response, it says that commitments are taken from earlier contracts and commitments as expected and in the coming years due to increased investor interest in our subsidies. Well, of course, there's interest, it's very logical for such a gift. But I think one more time or at least I'd like the minister to give an answer, since I didn't get an answer for the amendment to Article 1. There have been many objections that the suspension of subsidies would bring practically the end of the world, or that Serbia would fail again, as it fails whenever someone needs to make a great savior out of themselves and say it is impossible to bring an investor, that it is impossible to live. Well, let me tell you, in 2003, there was no subsidy. Then they were introduced, I think, for the first time for agriculture, but there were no other subsidies for jobs and so on. There were 250 employees more than today, and that number lasted another three, four years. Then the euro was 67.1 dinar. That's when the foreign debt was below ten billion. At that time, investments were over two billion euros, and then Serbia was as counterpart Martinovic said, an example of development, so a rising star in these areas, not by talking to us, but by assessing relevant investors and institutions in the business. So it can be without subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8704	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8705	We have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Why? Article 4, 5 and 6 in its contents, if it is to exist, should be behind Article 8, as it concerns something, first it must be stated in Article 8, and then only then to make checks, etc. This when you enter data into the budget for one year and express what could happen in the next two years, it's characteristic of those countries where budget planning is three years. Serbia doesn't have that yet. I understand also Articles 4, 5 and 6 are some transitional phases for some future solutions that will be mandatory in this way. But in the Department of Business, where there are people who end in 15 days of college, give them the right to judge which foreign investor they should give some money, so that we can attract him, that he comes, to open up jobs here with us, etc., forget it. That's how it starts with good wishes, and it always ends with prison, and it always ends with prison. The fact that Mladjan Dinkic is not yet available, that he is protected, that his first and second furniture is located in the structures of the government, at the level of the State Secretary, Assistant Minister etc., these are all temporary solutions, but all that is temporary is transitory. Accept this amendment and save these people something that must inevitably come.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8706	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8707	Thank you. It's about 11 billion dinars already mentioned that go to private companies you call investors. It is actually about your business partners who receive tens of thousands of euros to hire citizens who will work for 180 euros, stand 15 hours behind the tape and humiliate themselves in front of their employers and your party. I would ask Mr. Sarcevic – how is it possible that we have 11 billion dinars in the budget for this, and that the Faculty of the University of Novi Sad and perhaps other universities in Serbia, today get a memo that the Ministry of Education has no means to pay salaries for high education employees for the month of November? And how is it possible that we have 11 billion dinars for the companies of your business partners to buy investments without having money for the Youth Fund, as we have foreseen in the amendment, which is also likely to be rejected, just like everything we propose here? Don't have 11 billion dinars for those who open their jobs for 180 euros, because they get tens of thousands of euros for those jobs from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Don't have 11 billion dinars for them, and we don't have the salaries of university professors, that today, as I'm probably other colleagues, we get a letter from the union employees in the education that who knows what time they're asking for money in the budget, because they've been cut off again, because their nominal increase is still less, and because their salaries are still 13% less than the republican average. So let's wipe out these 11 billion dinars for your business partners and find a smarter purpose where these funds are spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8708	First of all, the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic has a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8709	The government's business partners were those tycoons in the previous period that formed governments, which decided, from Miroslav Miskovic and beyond, who formed governments, dictated who would be ministers, who would be in those governments, who would become a billionaire with private firms that they had in the course of performing the functions of ministers and different other functions, and in these governments it was known to stand still when these tykini called on the phone. It's stopped since 2012. And it bothers many people, because at the time they humiliated the citizens of Serbia, not with a small salary, but by being unemployed. First they left them out of work, destroyed companies, businesses, had those thieving privatizations that didn't end up in debt to municipalities, companies and the state for millions of euros, and that didn't go into any new thing. They didn't create any new value. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, were at work offices. It was a humiliation to citizens who didn't have a job, waking up in the morning they didn't even know if they were supposed to wake up that morning, because they didn't have anywhere to go. This government has managed to make 150,000 people more employed in the last four years. These people have a future, they have hope. Are those salaries too high, are they beautiful and wonderful? No, they're not. But they have salaries, they have hope that it will be better, they have something to take to their children, unlike the time only Miroslav Miskovic carried to his children and when the biggest investments were made by Saric. These were the revenues the state had. Well, we'll never go to such a Serbia again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8710	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8711	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one grudge, they haven't turned clockwise. They have to synchronise it a little. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm always touched when my fellow farmer, known as ZZ, known for the great subsidies for the vineyards he sold, known for pelcating chickens in the village of Pukovac, the yoghurt, known for importing the pumpkin, known for selling the cigarette factory during the “Sablje”, known for his blunt saber and sharp language, known for spending more time on the couch, not on the plow and the plow, known for selling the building mouth, known for having all these minor revenues from privatisation considered investments, known for allowing 70% of privatised factories to be resilient, that 400,000 people were left without work, I was moved when he started to wipe out subsidies in the economy and thus trying to prevent those who had destroyed his policies and his friends from losing their time in order to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get into their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to their jobs, to get to get to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to get their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to their jobs, to get Simply, that amendment should not be accepted. And there is the saying of Confucius: God has given us two ears and two eyes and one tongue. He gave us two ears that we could listen well, two eyes that we could look well, and one language to watch what we're saying, because sometimes it's smarter to keep quiet than to talk and I think my fellow farmer has to learn that Confucius saying sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8712	The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8713	104, Mr. Milicevic. I don't know on the basis of which powers you haven't heard what Mr. Stefanovic said, but what I can't accept is that you in a situation where the MP tells you that he's been mentioned, you ask the minister if he mentioned him, then he shakes his head, and that's still Minister Stefanovic, who says he didn't mention it. You know what, Mr. Stefanovic also says he's a science doctor, so that doesn't mean he's telling the truth when he's saying it. So, please, pay attention to what is said at the session and do not question ministers whether the MPs have the right to reply or not. Your job is to know for yourself, not to consult with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8714	Of course I know very well what the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, was talking about. It's true that we had a consultation, just to check out what I had a chance to hear for myself. My colleague Jerkov, you didn't understand me very well, I would have given you a replica, but since you have now used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate in some way. I would give you a replica because I noticed that you recognized yourself during the period Mr. Stefanovic spoke of as Deputy Prime Minister. So, do you want the National Assembly in Voting Day to plead on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Thank you. Right on the line. And that's what I wanted to explain to you too, given that in your presentation you mentioned and asked Minister Sarčević for an answer, first I wanted to let him answer your question. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8715	About the increase in salaries within workers working in education that is agreed and of course they are all in different positions. Teachers and teachers working in primary and secondary schools were the lowest with salaries, so the increase was the biggest. Then, all the other categories that work in education, including preschool, people in science and high received according to some standard that is just this time. So, everyone expected more, but this is the first time real money has been made, so that the distribution that went to education was well distributed. We'll do a better analysis of who in the system has more money. I meet with all the unions on a regular basis. The 2016 budget projection also set some things differently. That doesn't mean anyone gets paid. We brought this morning and today to the government... Certain decisions are also concerned by people working in student student standard, etc. So there's no reason to panic, and this second part of the answer, I'm saying, really, the difference in standards and wages has to go through the next distributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8716	counterpart Jerkov, you now want a replica of Minister Sarčević's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8717	And Stefanovic, Mr Milicevic. So I ask why in the 2017 budget there is a sum of 11 billion dinars given to certain companies, for which the Fiscal Council in the evaluation that all MPs received says is unclear? Who's he going to? Why's he going? By what criteria? Under what conditions and what are the effects of that? I'm asking you for the 2017 budget, you're in charge of Miskovic. Is it because of Miskovic, Mr Stefanovic, that in 2017 you give companies free choice an indefinite amount of money under unknown conditions, unknown criteria and with unknown expectations? Do you today, because of Miskovic, Mr Stefanovic, spend money untransparently on citizens of the Republic of Serbia? And is there any question that can be asked to you without you giving an answer from five, ten or seven years ago? Is there any moment in the 2017 budget where the Fiscal Council says you spend money untransparently, that you are responsible for it? The 2017 budget includes a sum of 11 billion dinars, which the Fiscal Council says does not know what is being spent on. How can you answer me about something that happened six years ago? In today's day we're talking about this. On Saturday we'll adopt that, you'll adopt that, that 11 billion dinars are given to the famous companies. Please answer me what's going on today, not in what's five years ago or in how you see time from five years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8718	Since you spoke directly to the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, I must also enable the Vice-President, as a representative of the proposing right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8719	I, unfortunately, am also talking about the time of four years and five months since our coalition is in power for four years and four months. So what was five years ago and six years ago, unfortunately, was at the time of some other governments. And, unfortunately, to that government in which the former regime participated, Miskovic was an idol to them, it was an icon. You see, they can't get rid of him today. When they hear that someone is attacking Miskovic, they must mention his name at least 20 times and ask what you are attacking Miskovic, so he was a wonderful man, we worked so well with them, and it was so great for us, and now you're ruining our business. And that's why they're attacking this government. With Miskovici, it was great with all the Miskovics who filled their pockets, not their citizens' pockets, and that is the problem. This policy, which is driven by foreign investors, I'm sorry, so these people are trying, above all, people who work in the economy trying, headed by the prime minister, to hire some people in our country and in our country, to fight competitive states and Bulgaria, and Romania and Macedonia, who offer subsidies to hire people. You have to invest money to attract these factories. We have 150,000 people per PIO fund more employees in Serbia, thanks to good policy, and that money comes back. That money comes back through the taxes they pay in our country, through the capital gains tax, through the salaries of those workers. I'm sorry, how can we talk, he says -- where you give 11 billion dinars, we don't even know what number it's about. It's about 11 billion, for God's sakes, either it's 11 billion or it's a figure you don't know about. So either it's transparent or it's not. The fiscal council doesn't mention anywhere that it's nontransparent, it doesn't mention anything. Find a sentence saying that money is spent non-transparently. There's no sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8720	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8721	Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating Article 108 to be in line at the session of the old President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, at the moment you. I expected you to mention Minister Stefanovic to take care of his presentation. He is, as police minister, destroying the presummation of innocence, regardless of who it is and your duty was to warn him, and ultimately, only Tomislav Nikolic admitted to being financed by Miroslav Miskovic and no one else. If you're talking about Tomislav Nikolic, we respect it, but it's not right to bring down the presummation of people's innocence, as the prime minister says, which no one can mention, and these people are now all at large, so why aren't these people in the prison that the minister is talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8722	Mr. Milojic, of course, in the best possible way, at least I think I care about respecting the Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to do that now, when it comes to... First I will ask you, do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of the vote that the injured of the Rules of Procedure has been shown? Yeah. I will direct you to article 103 in the case of the position of the 7th member – the President of the National Assembly is obliged to use the time used by the MP using the right of the position of the 1st member to subtract from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group. Since you have just done so, the time you have used to replicate, to express your political views, I will subtract from the total time of your parliamentary group that you have left for this debate. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8723	Sir, two members have been injured. Article 106. Which says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. This is the point of the Rules of Procedure, which may need to be deleted, because this is a member that you automatically apply, when you are in a good mood or when you are not. I don't know. What's quite clear is that this member doesn't apply all the time. What is even clearer is that, unfortunately, much more often ministers or representatives of the ruling coalition come out of the topic and that you never intervene at that time, and when the opposition does, where you would have to have a much softer attitude, then there comes that rigorousity of yours, then you take time away from the parliamentary group. Is that 30 seconds, it's not much, but it's a non-democratic measure. The second thing, a member of 104 is injured, which speaks of who has the right to answer. You gave the minister a chance to answer. The minister has nothing to answer for. The right to replica is the right of the People's MP. The Minister doesn't have that right. The minister may, as a representative of the promoter, speak within these frameworks. That time was used. So, you must know, learn once, who has more rights in the National Assembly, learn that the National Assembly of the House is in which ministers are obliged to listen to the MPs, not to teach lessons, not to respond, but to listen. Sometimes MPs are wrong sometimes, but ministers have to, with all due respect, treat every MP here for whatever he's saying, because he's a representative of the citizens, and ministers are just employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8724	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: Yes. I agree fully with you that it is important that each of the 250 MPs speak on the agenda. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way, for one simple reason, because I've made it possible for a fellow who comes from the ranks of the opposition, first as normal as possible, to speak according to the amendment, then to use the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to kind of replicate, and then to get a replica. On the other hand, when it comes to ministers, if the MP addresses the minister directly, then the minister must have the opportunity to replicate in two minutes, as well as the MP. Article 116, among other things, cannot be left without an answer. Mr. Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, did not speak of anything that was out of the agenda, for one simple reason, because he answered the questions sent to him by the MP. Thank you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8725	First of all, I would ask you, Mr. Milicevic, you are a very calm man and patiently, to appease the MPs of the ruling coalition, who earn me, distract me, and I fear that I will not be able to connect my thoughts. You have injured Article 116 by giving an answer because it is a member of the Rules of Procedure, which absolutely cannot apply to this situation. Article 116, I will quote it, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, in order at the session of the National Assembly, apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. It's a member who doesn't give the Minister the right to a replica. There is no member in the Rules of Procedure who gives the Minister the right to a replica. There isn't. It is the exclusive right of the Members of the People. They can't be with us in rank, so they have the same rights. They're beneath us and that's what no ruling majority since 2000 has been able to understand. And yellow when they wrote this Rules of Procedure, they didn't realize it. When they applied it, they didn't understand, and now you don't understand. The MPs are above the ministers. MPs are representatives of the people, to whom sovereignty has been transferred, and the minister is a variable category. The MP can't be changed, and the minister today is, tomorrow isn't. Here's Radulovic's example, it doesn't take long. Article 116 gives you the right to punish the minister a little, to kill the minister of caution, or to remove him from the session for two months as Balša Bozovica, but in no case gives him the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8726	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. That's your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Whether or not you are right, if you wish, of course, the National Assembly will be declared in the voting day. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: I want to make a statement. I can't accept it. I just said it. So, you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, right? Thank you. (Neđe Jovanovic, from the place: The injury of the Rules of Procedure) The word has a folk MP, Neđo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8727	I thank you, Chairman. Everyone has the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure as they wish. In a particular case, my predecessor, but literally as he wishes, not as it says in the Rules of Procedure. What's this about? It is a simple interpretation that can only be as it is, not as it is freely presented today at the session of the Assembly, because Article 106 does not indicate the status of a MP, but as a speaker. The speaker can be both minister and MP. On the other hand, ministers are not wax figures to just watch them here, but participants are in the debate that can allow them to be defined, spoken out, according to everything that applies to them. So you did the right thing when you pointed out, and your fellow Messenger, and all that you have done so far. Therefore, there is only a breach of the Rules of Procedure here through abuse of Rules of Procedure, i.e. the rights of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8728	Mr Jovanovic, thank you, of course, for commending my request for the Assembly to continue to function in one normal course, but you have, in a way, abused the Rules of Procedure and now I have to be just and just, as well as to the MPs of the opposition, and in the case of the 7th member of the National Assembly, I will take up time from the time of the parliamentary group, because through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have replicated to the MP of the SRS. Thank you. Minister Knezevic, if you wish to report after the amendment, you do not have the option, as the proposing representative can only contact the amendment for two minutes. You have no basis for replication, so you can't get the word. Miss Jerkov, you're reporting by amendment. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. You have the option under the amendment. Here you go. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8729	Mr. Stefanovic, I'll read slowly so you can understand. On page 14, the evaluations of the Fiscal Council - the problem of non-transparency of expenditure to subsidise investors in the 2016 budget is repeated, the adhesion for incentives to investors was given collectively through the total amount of funds and were not known individual amounts of incentives. In this way, it is still unknown how much money is granted to which investor, so the National Assembly and the public cannot get acquainted with the structure of this generous budget expenditure. Did you understand the word - non-transparent? Do you know her meaning and can you apologize to me and to the MPs, because you said I told the truth, when I said that in the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, it says that you non-transparently share 11 billion dinars? When you apologize, and I expect you to come forward to apologize for telling me, I expect you to give an answer to the question – why in 2017 do you non-transparently share 11 billion dinars with companies of your choice?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8730	Thank you. The question was addressed to the minister. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8731	I'd like to answer this question. So it's about investments of particular importance, support for investors, 11 billion dinars, of which 6.6 billion are scheduled for contracts signed this year. In this year, we have signed 21 contracts, which carry an investment of 220m euros and 15,600 employees. Of course, we are all interested in economic development and economic growth, and just such proactive subsidies, such as in business and agriculture, bring this desired economic growth. I'd like to say about transparency. As far as transparency is concerned, that is precisely why we gave a list of these companies that have the right to grant in 2017, and you have individual solutions for each of them on the website of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission for State Aid Control, and whenever the Government grants it, it appears on that site. Therefore, it is very transparent. One more thing. Since here, during the discussion, investors came and took the money and left. I've got the latest analysis that says this, that 74 completed projects that carry 15,013 jobs, these are those projects that have passed the period of control. So, after the control period, when these foreign investors do not have the obligation to hire any workers, they are all here and all 15,013 workers remain at work, which means that Serbia offers very favourable, competitive conditions for investors and we must continue to do so, if we want to reduce the unemployment rate, which is currently 15.2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8732	According to the amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8733	Thank you. As for the transparency of spending, it certainly does not exist. As for opening jobs, and they're totally fictitious, so, let's say 50,000, and when we really do the analysis, it turns out to be under 8,000. So what you said just doesn't stand. As for the government member, Neboja Stefanovic of Belgrade who spoke here about transparency and pointed to transparency, for God's sake everything is transparent with us, a question for him...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8734	Mr. Radulovich, you've got... I have to stop you. You have received the amendment to Article 6 which reads: "It is deleted. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” And you are taking the opportunity to ask the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic a question. You'll do it on Tuesdays or Thursdays, at the beginning of workdays. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: This is a discussion. ) This is, Mr Radulovic, a discussion, open debate and dialogue on Article 6 of the amendment, which reads as "expect". (Saša Radulovic, from the place: If I may say so. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8735	Chairman, you must admit, if you allow the ministers to speak of these matters during the debate on the amendment, then you must also allow the MPs to plead according to what they have heard...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8736	I'm gonna have to interrupt. I think you're having unnecessary dialogue, and I have no intention of having a dialogue with you, but to hold a session. I'm ministers, just a moment. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Why did you allow it? ) If I had not allowed the Deputy Prime Minister to address it, you would have said the opposition MPs remain without answering the questions they have asked. He addressed the question raised by an opposition MP. I have no intention of plowing with you, I cannot give you my word because you are not talking about an amendment concerning Article 6. — ‘It shall be deleted. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” But according to the amendment, he wants to speak to MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8737	Of course, this issue of detachment of the state for subsidies is important and this transparency that we're talking about here is important. When we spoke in principle, we had a real example of this transparency as to how the government of the RS and its president saw it. So you have the Serbian government's decision, as the economy minister says, to grant a 1.6m-euro subsidy to a firm, Endava. The minister sent us an answer that the government, or the government's body, made that decision at a session on November 20th. It's included in the budget, and then we hear it's gone. And then the Finance Committee takes it off. Well, the problem is that you don't know who's doing what, which is there's no clear reason why this firm won, as we don't know why they won't get that money now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8738	Mr. Djurishich, just before I...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8739	I'm talking to you about transparency as a lack of demand to erase this member. It's my discussion, please, let me finish, I won't be long.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8740	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8741	I just want to point out that there is no transparency, that in this case the Fiscal Council is right and that you have made that clear. There are no criteria, that's what the problem is here. He has the government's exclusive political decision, or its prime minister, where the minister takes the liberty of subsidising and then via the local self-government minister, the subsidy is lifted because it is authorised to negotiate. That's the problem with this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8742	According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8743	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I already debated a similar amendment and subsidies with my colleague Zivkovic during the morning, but I must point out and look back at one of the previous speakers when it comes to subsidies and investment in education and science. I remember the time from 2011 and 2012, when 60m euros were allocated to the Centre for the Promotion of Science building. For the building, not the investment, not the human resources, but the building, and that's of course, and that's a good thing it's prevented from being done. I'm talking about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8744	Mr Marinkovic, you must speak of an amendment to Article 6. — ‘It shall be deleted. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8745	Please don't interrupt me. It's about subsidies. So economic subsidies directly affect the growth of the economy when we have big enough growth, we have both for fair and real and good redistribution. What are we talking about here? About various types of pulsism and demagogy, and I have to look back at the commentary, when it comes to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, I worked with him for two years, if 10% worked like them, Singapore would have been me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8746	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8747	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all like to express great joy in the name of the Parliament Group of the Serbian Movement Dvora, because this is the first moment in the recent history of Serbian parliamentaryism that, as a topic of the agenda, one of the most devastating things has come through this amendment debate in Serbia's recent economic history, which is the subsidisation of foreign firms that come to Serbia, which we support by funding from our budget. It is extremely important, Mr. Chairman, that you have allowed such a debate, and it is very much in line with the proposed amendment because all the MPs that I am publicly supporting here from the opposition, who have proposed this amendment, believe that this whole item should be deleted, because we have a long ago agony for Mladjan Dinkic to his best student, Alexander Vukic, in the neoliberal economy. What does that mean exactly? What do you want to support foreign investors? To kill the competition of a domestic producer? In what branch of the economy do you force subsidies to foreign companies? Is it the one where we have domestic producers? What does it look like when you bring in a foreign investor and kill the competition of a domestic producer? What did you give that domestic producer at the same time as you force a foreign investor? When a foreign investor comes here, everyone, from the president of the state, worships him through ministers in the government, to the mayor and the president of the municipalities. Everyone opens the door, gives him free connections to electricity, water and gas, gives him free building land, gives him, we hear from the Prime Minister, 27,000 euros per job of our money from our budget. Tell me, what does a domestic businessman get when he shows up at the Prime Minister's? What does a domestic farmer get? What do domestic banks get? So that's why we support eradicating this support for foreign investors. You know when that only makes sense? When they bring in some modern technology that we don't have, they open up some perspectives of export markets that we can't. But to bring them to those dams where we can develop our own domestic economy, it's called genocide over domestic economy. That's our problem with your pushing strangers. Not to talk about the deals you're making with these strangers and other things. Here we're only talking about how we question the competition of a domestic producer, favoring a foreign investor, and the highlight of the whole story, and to end with it, is when that big foreign investor of yours...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8748	Mr. Beard, can we get back to the subject now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8749	I'm making a point right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8750	It's not the point, Mr. Obradovic, that as you say, you point, the point is to talk about what's on the agenda, and that's Article 6. - It's wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8751	Great. Thank you, Mr. Milicevic, I will be very grateful that you will allow me to conclude my thought. So why delete? So that we don't get this, that the foreign investor we give our money to, from our budget, for every new open job, at the end of the year falsely demonstrates his business with a loss, so that he doesn't pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia. Dvors are the only ones who have dared to point out these scandalous tax evasions from your famous foreign investors. What does that mean exactly? False bookkeeping, profit-making and extra profit abroad, by giving imaginary payments to their mothers companies abroad. Now, imagine that big investor of yours in Serbia doing business with his loss, who believes he's doing business with loss. It is clear that it operates by earning profits abroad through false accounting and through non-payments of profits achieved in Serbia. It must be stopped, so I support – it is deleted, it is further supported by foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8752	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. We'll have to do it first, Mr. Orlic, to delete the list of the reported. Now, please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8753	That was a straight line, Mr. Chairman, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8754	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8755	Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen, again of abuse, the classic abuse of assembly debates in order to speak here something of interest only and only to those who commit this abuse here and nothing else. Now, I don't know if it's a serious relationship to work, a serious relationship to the National Assembly? Let him draw his own conclusions. It's more than clear to me here. An MP reports that he's discussing the amendment and still can't hide his fascination with Alexander Vukic and he's talking here for a long and wide story. Now let's ask a question - have we heard any figures, any information, anything that would justify these completely flat-rate estimates? We're nothing, because we can't expect anything from someone who keeps demonstrating the lack of knowledge here. Can we even hear from that man any information about whether or not a business has been shut down because of the fact that unfair competition has been made? Can we hear some information about what tax pay is, who's doing business with the plus? No, none of it, because he doesn't know any of it, I say. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the essence of staying in this place here to be loud. The bottom line is, if at all possible, something good, smart, is constructively proposed. I don't expect that from people who use this place here just as a stage. Why? To probably advertise their new coalition a little, their new big DOS. But I'm asking one question -- if they're already advertising it, do they have any result, any effect, any effect? Can they at least provide themselves with the role of being joint presidential candidates? We know that I can't. Although they are offered politely, no one cuts them down two percent. Then what's gonna be there? Let them think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8756	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Vesovicu, I see you're suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please sign in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the people, Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8757	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've hurt Article 104 on this occasion. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: It has already been a hundred times. There have been hundreds of times, colleagues from the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8758	You point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has already been indicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8759	No, she wasn't following this amendment at all... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8760	I can't let you. (Dear Vesovic, from the post: Let me finish. ) It wasn't an hour ago, we're having a debate on the same amendment to Article 6. I give my word to the motionary's representative... (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica! Right on the line? You're not mentioned in a negative context. People's MPs speak out loud. You've misread it. Mr. Marinkovic spoke very highly of you. Mr. Radulovich, are you answering the amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8761	This requires the abolition of these subsidies and the abolition of subsidies of 11 billion dinars for 2017 and then growth thereafter. These subsidies include a “Fiita” subsidy from Kragujevac, which has been since 2008. "Fiat" in Serbia does not pay practically any taxes. Even contributions to the employer's burden are paid by the citizens of Serbia, so he does not pay himself "Fiat". This is practically a model designed for all these foreign corporations for which domestic businessmen do not have such conditions. As regards the very harmful contract with the Fiat, it is only one of the contracts that are within this amendment. Maybe Nebojsa Stefanovic could explain to us what it says in that contract, after he said he was familiar with it. It would be good to take this opportunity to explain to us what it really says in that contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8762	Again, you are using the opportunity to ask questions, although you have received a word after the amendment, to speak to Article 6 of the amendment, which was submitted by a group of MPs of the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8763	Thank you, Chairman. I really have to point out a violation of article 107, of course, a violation of the dignity of all of us here, because there are frightening facts here that have nothing to do with reality. That's how the public cheats. Someone's gonna get the impression that the Assembly does that kind of thing. Namely, here you have one scandalous campaign against every possible investor in this country. It is good that the citizens of Serbia may hear things like this, if these people had not given God the responsibility, they would have completely ruined this country's economy, people would have lost their jobs. I would really ask you to continue any investor from this country, to really warn him, because it violates the economic order in this country and certainly violates the economic stability of this country, which, of course, does not seem to be a good way for Parliament to do such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8764	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8765	I'm using the time of the head of the Parliament Club. Well, here are the contributions and the arguments in favour of this proposed amendment. We have also heard remarks by the Rules of Procedure that the adoption of such an amendment will jeopardise any investment, foreign investment in Serbia. Here, MP Jerkov gave a clear argument and evidence that this is an untransparent spending of the planned 11 billion for the 2017 budget, and this is clearly in a report by the Fiscal Council, often called for by the Prime Minister himself. But the additional arguments are what we discussed at the beginning of this debate, in proposing certain amendments and the proposal to make some logical proposals, such as introducing free lunches for all school students, to support the most talented students, and it would be said that there is simply no room for these amendments to provide for the removal of part of the funds from subsidies intended and public enterprises, but also according to this article treated by 11 billion dinars. Here, we now see how much this need is and what is more important in Serbia, of course, with our decision-making and our crucial pressure on the key when we vote for these amendments, and that is whether we care more about those who are the most vulnerable, 850,000 children in primary and secondary schools, or the most talented ones, they are smaller, but those who represent the future engine of Serbia's development, or possibly the strongest ones at the moment, the privates who have some capital in one of these systems that support themselves with 11 billion. Only half of it would be enough for such human and large goals, which were not understood. So, and it's one of the important arguments to accept this amendment that has been proposed in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8766	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8767	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I finally get my word. I have to say, in 2012, jobs almost didn't exist. Everything they could steal, they stole. Everything they could eat, they ate. Everything they could fire, they fired. Between 2002 and 2012, international organisations estimated $49.37 billion abroad. There are no subsidies to which we can open jobs as much as this company, which I call "the Kradulović Del Boy companies", closed with privatisation and bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8768	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. Is anyone answering for a word? (Dusan Pavlovic, from the post: I do not have the right to my amendment? Your amendment is next. You're right, of course. (Dusan Pavlovic, from town: On Article 6.) The next amendment is yours. You submitted the next amendment to Article 7, Mr. Pavlovic. You haven't answered your word. So, I repeat, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8769	Thank you, Chairman. So, we came from the fact that the state took over some of the previous years of commitment. We have come from the facts, according to state officials of government ministers and Prime Minister, that the 2016 budget is well-designed and that six billion and 600, as far as 2016 was concerned, was enough for commitments and for so-called growth, as represented here. So we came from that and projections, according to the reasons for the amendment's rejection, to estimate that we have interested ministers for 2017, so the amount of eight billion and 133 million. Also, growth is planned for 2018 and 2019 and we have provided some projections here. So, caution works, like for the bridge. We're not against the bridge, we're not against employment, we're not against foreign investors, but there's something wrong with it. There are examples, I can name a few examples from the Great Plan, that the investor bought land, built a hall, paid for the infrastructure, and today, here, for ten years, some investment in the Great Plan. On the other hand, you have an investor who gets land, we have a situation that the city's money has been built, that they have still received 10,000-euro subsidies. You know, Mr. Minister, at 10,000 euros, maybe 30, maybe more, pay in gross, when it comes to minimum wage, and the largest number in the so-called screwdriver industry or the nomadic industry works for the minimum. So over 30 salaries can be settled. What else is wrong with that? One large discretionary decision-making sphere in the selection, in the evaluations and, of course, the decision-making sphere of the executive bodies is so wide, practically uncontrollable. It's often breaking the law, especially when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8770	Thank you, colleague Schulkic. After the amendment, firstly, Prime Minister Goran Knezevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8771	I wouldn't want to remain in line with Mr. Mark Djurisic, since we obviously didn't get along well. I'm sorry, it's on the amendment, it's about this amendment. I apologize if I may have made a mistake in the procedure. In fact, it has been said that foreign investors don't know who gets, how much they get, or when they win. It's a very transparent process. First of all, what's the beginning of all this is a letter about investor intentions. A letter on investor intentions arrives at Serbia's Development Agency. Based on the Investment Act, the Encouragement Regulation and on criteria where the most important level of investment, the number of employees and the categorization of local self-government, RAS gives the first projection and sends it to the Council for Economic Development. The members of the Economic Development Council are labour minister, finance minister, economy minister, Serbian Development Agency director and president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. They're the promoters. So, the Council for Economic Development is proposing to the government to sign the treaty and to encourage. Therefore, a very, very transparent process that is very clear in each member. When you spoke about the problems of non-transparency and what the Fiscal Council said, so the Fiscal Council said that the 2016 budget did not know the individual amounts of incentives, nor the names of the companies, and it is said later – that the proposal for the 2017 budget, in addition to the weight of the funds, gave a list of investors. So, one big step has been made and a lot of progress has been made compared to 2016, and I said that individual amounts are on the Ministry of Finance website, where each individual solution is announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8772	Thank you, Prime Minister. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8773	I don't know, Mr. George, do you have anything against me or does it just seem to me? So, I reported on Amendment six, which was grouped together here with the previous three amendments to article 6 that had a colleague Krasic, members of the Democratic Party and counterpart Zivkovic. I didn't hear you call me to defend my amendment. Can I know why? Secondly, the amendment also reads: "is deleted", as well as a previous amendment by which you did not even allow me to discuss what it also says: "is deleted". May I know why I'm not called to defend the amendment? Can I have two minutes to explain that amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8774	Of course you can't get an extra two minutes because we've moved on to the next amendment. As for the argument, of course you'd get the word that the moment the debate took place you were in the system. You're not. Probably if he did, we'd get the word. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: I want you to plead. I thank you. I have already spoken, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. Mr. Djurisic, the minister has spoken to you and said it suits you. I'll give you two minutes right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think, Minister, you have just shown that there is no transparency in this budget regarding the economic subsidy item. So you're saying now -- progress is because there are companies that are going to get out of the budget, but no amount. And why no amount, if you say it's transparent and it exists on the site? And here we have an example of one of those companies that got from the Council of Economic Development, where all the ministers you named are sitting, a decision to propose a grant contract to the government and then something happens. Now, what's going on, it's not clear, it's not transparent. That's what citizens need to know. What is it that you three or four ministers, as far as you've listed on this council, motivated you to propose to the government a signing, and then that doesn't happen, and the prime minister here says -- that's not going to happen? And it's in the budget, and there's this company listed here, and then you delete it by amending the Finance Committee, so you don't turn out to be lying. And you're lying and you're hiding something. That's the problem. So, citizens want to know what criteria some company receives, that's their right, that's Serbia's citizens' money. Anyone who lives here, he somehow contributes to the budget, more or less. When they buy food for children, since you will not release VAT, 20% of that price goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. People also want to know why and then what happens that they can't, and that it's not the self-will of the prime minister or any other man in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8776	Thank you. The right to replica now has, of course, Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8777	First, I spoke to you most culturally, most collectively, and I don't think it's right to talk to me like that, but it paints you. On the other hand, you didn't understand or try to bend what I said. So, I made it very clear, for the third time, so the Council for Economic Development proposes to the government, the government on the Endava firm did not discuss and was not at the cabinet session, precisely because of transparency. To budget, we put it all in the list. Since the government of the Republic of Serbia has not passed the procedure, no decision has yet been made and no "Endava" or dinar has been received. As things stand now, because she wasn't in the government, she can't even get a dinar. That's why we're proposing to delete it from the budget list. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8778	Mr. Djurishic, you had a little bit of a foundation, you really don't now. We're going back to Article 6. The amendment was brought together, I remind you, by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8779	Well, thank you, really. Do you know that this system often breaks down, throws out for no reason? You have to have an understanding. I checked in last time. It's not the point, if I can answer Minister Knezevic, it's not the point of what you're making in the budget to write who you're going to give the money to. So, of course, that's good, too, but that's not the point of transparency. The point of transparency is to know how the dinar was spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8780	Mr. Pavlovic, and again it will turn out that I, as chairman, have something against you, and you do not seem to understand the essence of the amendment that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8781	Yes, it is. It's getting wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8782	What's deleted, Mr. Pavlovic? Don't delete it. Mr. Pavlovic in Article 6 is about the amount, see the content of the amendments. Look at the content of the amendments to Article 6, do not talk about the amendment and continue to ask the question, to conduct a dialogue, which I cannot allow you and continue to work. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Now you have a chance for Mr. Pavlovic, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8783	No, I don't want to talk about the amendment to Article 7, I want to talk about the amendment to Article 6. I'm reporting as part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8784	We don't understand each other again, Mr. Pavlovic. We've just moved on to the amendment to Article 7 that you've submitted. I gave you my word. Do you want to talk about the amendment? (Dusan Pavlovic, from the post: Yes, I want to talk about the amendment. ) You did not talk about the amendment to Article 6. You asked a question and you wanted to have a dialogue. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the scene: I did not ask anyone any questions. ) Do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 7? (No) I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're having a bit of a weird session, maybe you're paying more attention to Mr. Martinovic, he's always suggesting something, so maybe you're not following it well. It is, of course, the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the famous issue – what makes 7% of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that the AP budget should be. You have tried those in 7% by old custom, Mr Vujovicu, to put many things that do not belong to those 7%, many things that other laws of our country say cannot enter those 7% to make a picture, as Prime Minister Vukic says Serbia's Vojvodina gives much more than the Constitution prescribes. Well, it doesn't give Mr. Vujovic aside if you didn't take everything there would be no need to give anything. With my amendment, I have suggested that everything you put into the AP Vojvodina budget, and it should not make the AP Vojvodina budget, do not enter that 7%. I think, of course, of the salaries of primary and secondary school employees, because Article 157 paragraph 2 point 4 of the Law on the basis of the education and education system clearly states that they are paid for primary and secondary school employees to provide the budget of the Republic of Serbia rather than the budget of the AP Vojvodina as you try to put it. I mean the transfer funds by local self-government and I mean all those funds that are in the account of the AP Vojvodina only hold for one day. Because you are artificially trying to make 7.3% to appear generous to the citizens, therefore the AP Vojvodina cannot meet its constitutional obligation and finance the percentage of capital investments that the Constitution must finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8786	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8787	Well, of course, this is about a similar thing, as my predecessor used to say. So, article 7 is talking about the AP Vojvodina budget and what it belongs to. And, one of the things that's been back a few years as part of the budget are transfers to occasional jobs in accordance with the law that determines the powers of the AP Vojvodina, and we're asking it to be deleted. First of all, that law doesn't exist. So, you cannot transfer to local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, you, with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, put the AP Vojvodina into the budget, just to have 7% and 7.3%, respectively, as the prime minister tells us next year will be the AP Vojvodina budget. So it's not in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government. You tell me in response to not accepting the amendment, you mention the article. From 37 to 43 and Article 45. Law on the financing of local self-government. I'd like you to tell me exactly what member says that the transfers of local self-government are part of the AP Vojvodina budget. It doesn't exist. The only thing that exists, which might look like a member of the Constitution that says that the AP has original incomes, provides funds to local self-government units to do occasional jobs, but those jobs they trust to local self-government from their jurisdiction, not what you want to give them so generously now, and then you claim 7.3%. And the last line in this explanation is completely insane. You are telling me that it is in line, and then you say that my amendment is not in line with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia because it cannot determine the income of local self-government units. Well, as I can't, you have this member of the budget there talking about the resources of all the local self-governments in Serbia. Well, what it is, but that the budget of the Republic of Serbia also affects local budgets. So this argument is amazing to you, and these discussions are repeated every year. I'm just asking you in these articles from 37rd to 43rd and Article 45. The law on the financing of local self-government, find me a sentence that says that the dedicated transfers to local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are part of the AP Vojvodina budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8788	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8789	Since time is so short, I won't repeat all the figures the Prime Minister has already read, I'll give you a table. I'll just read Article 7 so we know what we're talking about here. The budget of the AP Vojvodina shall provide transfers from the budget of the Republic of Serbia: transfers for confidential transactions under the Law establishing the competences of the AP Vojvodina, dedicated transfers to finance expenditure for employees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the amounts established by this law, dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government, dedicated capital transfers for projects established by the Government, funds for salaries for employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina of the 2nd indent of this Member shall be paid at the height and by the dynamics established by the Government. The budget of the AP Vojvodina shall pay the salaries referred to in Article 2(2) of this Article on the following day from the date of receipt of the funds. Article 24. The law on the budgetary system says – For the financing of the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, the budget of the autonomous province belongs to public revenue and income: part of the income of the company, part of the income tax on the income of citizens, other taxes and part of the tax in accordance with the specific law, rural administrative fees, fees in accordance with the law, donations and transfers, all transfers without limitation, revenues generated by the use of public funds, income from interest, income from renting, income from renting, income from renting, or use of real estate, income from income from interest, income from renting, income from renting, or use of immovable property, revenues from selling asset services, income from financial penalties imposed in the infringement procedure, revenues from concession fees in accordance with the law. Point 7 has been deleted. And, receiving, receiving from the sale of immovable property, receiving from the sale of immovable property in the property of the AP, receiving from the sale of movable property, receiving from the sale of provincial commodity reserves, receiving from the sale of valuables, receiving from the sale of natural property, receiving from borrowing, receiving from the sale of financial assets. We are all, respecting that, strictly and with a very conservative assessment that part of the nine billion-dollar agricultural subsidy goes to the territory of Vojvodina. It's probably going to be more than 31 billion of what we put in there, and that goes beyond 7.3 billion that next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8790	Thank you. To Article 7 and to which a new Article 7a is added after Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I agree with what my colleagues said before me, Mr. Marko Djurisic and Aleksandra Jerkov, however, here I suggested that Article 7a be introduced after article 7. which states that the budgets of the local self-government unit belong to the dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in accordance with the law governing the financing of local self-government. I think it is necessary in the same way as it was done with regard to the AP Vojvodina to settle the issue of the transfer of local self-government to the rest of Serbia. Which is why I have submitted this amendment, given that a few months ago we passed a law where we took away certain funds from local self-governments and I believe that in that case that money taken by local self-government would have been if it hadn't been returned as a whole, there was at least the possibility that this little thing would come back in advance for certain projects and for certain obligations that local self-government has to citizens in those local units. For this reason, I think that the local self-governments that they receive from the transfer of these funds could plan in the budget, not to get later, and given how everything here is done literally on the party line and then the local self-government, above all where the ruling party is in power, would get bigger funds. Other municipalities, of course, wouldn't get anything or very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8792	Thank you. Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8793	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, so the only way to practically solve all the problems we had to solve, when it comes to a technical error relating to "Endavo" d.o.o. and in the explanation of the Minister of Economy in the earlier amendments you heard, is a way of actually making amends, since you cannot submit any more amendments to Article 8. So the correction was also related to Section 20, but also to Section 24, where the Ministry of Education is being enlightened, and here they would thank the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the part relating to support for the work of the Innovation Activity Fund practically changes and it is said that the schedule and use of the funds in the appraisal will be done under a special act of the Government, taking into account the improvement of gender equality. What does that mean? This means that all the efforts of the Women's Parliamentary Network over the past three years, in which we have asked for simple special attention to our young scientists, will be noticed by the Ministry of Science and Education and that the part where we speak, and we have good examples, and yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that our Dr. Magdalene Djordjevic, as a young researcher, has practically received from the EU Horizon 2020 project approved project 1.4m euros and that our Professor Sofia Stefanovic has also been practically approved by the Horizon project worth up to 1.7m euros. Serbia practically ranks women scientists in the first class for obtaining funds from European funds. This is something the Ministry has now recognised and I think it will give great encouragement to future women scientists that, with the help of our ministry, they are really running for prestigious projects, not only the EU, but global funds, and I thank the Ministry of Finance for hearing this kind of amendment in Serbia's draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8794	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Goran Jesic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8795	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vujovic, it is perfectly natural when we debated two months ago on the issue of reduction with both you and Ana Brnabic, on the subject of a reduction in funds for local self-government, today we are asking in the budget to make up for the funds. I don't think it was good, and then we've explained enough, why we're reducing the resources of local self-government, when we could find those four billion somewhere else, and I'm going to try to spend this time explaining where we can... (Maria Obradovic, from the post: This is not the amendment. ) Article 8th Section 16. Ministry of Finance, Chapter 16/0. So let's go back to this subject of subsidies, which is very important, and it's about deploying funds. We don't have a problem... Let's be quiet now, please, let's be polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8796	Mr. Jesic, one moment. You received a word after the amendment to Article 8. - The amendment with the correction was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I'm asking you first to talk about that amendment, and as far as silence is concerned, let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8797	You gave me an eight.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8798	Committee amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8799	And you gave me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8800	Mr. Djurishic, do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8801	I would like to perhaps appeal to the minister, to see how in the future Article 8 does not look what it looks like now. Practically, Article 8 is the entire budget. It contains all the expenses. And now we have 46, 47 amendments on this article. Each of the MPs had this sort of intervention. As high as they were, as little as they could have been done, obviously. And this amendment of the Committee shows the poor quality of the debate we are having because we have had a little time, so the Committee has given one amendment, and then the Committee has had to correct its amendment, which is such a stretching of parliamentary maximum procedures, in order to, I say, patch up or correct some ambiguities, inconsistencies, whatever, let's not use any more difficult words, in the budget, or in this Article 8. I ask you, that we do not come into this situation in the future, that this is how the Committee intervenes, because the question is until the end of business whether this was possible, and that the Finance Committee changes the decision of the Administrative Committee, which is the only one within the law responsible for forming the Assembly budget. This was the first intervention of the Finance Committee. Well, then this correction based on the obvious intervention of a ministry, means that this is no longer happening, to try the next budget to make it more transparent for several members, whether, according to the ministries, by their programmes, you break this article 8, that we can discuss it more in quality, to be more transparent and everything. So, I appeal first of all to you, Minister, that your ministry in making the next budget approaches differently and to change, I'm not saying that this is something that's now in the budget and that it's been different before. No, unfortunately, but we're changing now, and you're talking about yourself here, the structure, we're moving from line to program funding. I think a different budget outlook would also allow for a more quality debate. We will not support this amendment, of course, because it shows the poor intention of sending the proposings in a short time, to make it impossible for MPs to discuss, that they intervene in quality, and then the Government, using the business opportunity, to intervene in the budget through the ruling majority and committees, which is completely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8802	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8803	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment a reduction in Section 2. I cannot simply believe that the government has proposed that the worst president in Serbia's history, Tomislav Nikolic, spend 55m dinars for travel next year. You, gentlemen of the government, instead of taking away those funds from him, so you don't let him travel so he doesn't embarrass you, so he doesn't embarrass us so he doesn't embarrass the citizens of Serbia, you've still allowed him to continue to embarrass the Republic of Serbia with 55 million dinars. I therefore propose this amendment to confiscate funds from Section 2 of Article 8 and to propose these funds for emergency situations. Please allow me to talk about the amendment, to calm the people in the O.R. I know that SNS people cannot accept what I just said, but it is unacceptable that 55 million dinars and next year you plan for travel and travel expenses for Mrs Dragic and Tomislav Nikolic, the worst president in the history of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the DS is proposing that the 55 million dinar funds be transferred to the Emergency Sector. We had floods in 2014, which you did not adequately respond to, we had floods in 2015, we had slides in 2014 and 2015, you did not have time to restore Serbia from all these floods and from the slide and you now instead of giving those funds to the Emergency Sector, you give Tomislav Nikolic to continue to embarrass Serbia for another year, until in May, Dragan Sutanovac cleans it from a political scene in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8804	Please, you've been given your word to talk about the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8805	After all, if Tomislav Nikolic wants to travel, let him sell the illegal cottages he built, which you, breaking the law, cannot tear down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8806	Is that the content of the amendment you've submitted, Mr. Milojic? Of course not. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Reduced 50 million and confiscation of funds. ) You can bring in, and we can analyze the content together, but that's not the content of the amendment you've been talking about. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8807	Thank you, Chairman. Article 103, Article 104 and Article 107, all three have been flagrantly violated and you have had to react because it is a terrible violation of the dignity of parliament and of all citizens, especially those who chose Mr Nikolic. But that's not all they're working on. In order for someone to have the opportunity to say something like this, they must first of all be worthy of something. Someone who's been so messed up and ruined that he can't recover in 100 years, he really doesn't have any right to say something like this, and you had to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8808	Mr. Djukanovic, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to declare the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Replication rights, MP Vladimir Orlic -- mentioning the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, ladies and gentlemen, to remind ourselves of something. It's only a pity that whoever caused this replica, deliberately challenged him, was probably suggesting that it would work out, something more interesting, smarter, whatever it was that was just coming out. Too bad big, 'cause it wouldn't be bad for some things to be reminded of, first of all, him. It doesn't make any sense, it's even quite inappropriate, not to say degutantly, that it gives itself the right here to be loud on the subject of the flood and the state's reaction at the time of the flood. So, the state that has done everything, and beyond the limits possible, certainly, in joint work with all the citizens of this country, that this disaster, as far as possible, may be stopped, to remove its consequences, we have done more than superhuman efforts, while the gentleman who gives himself the right to be loud and to criticize others on this matter, enjoyed some catering facility making huge costs to his local self-government. He didn't move his finger while the Department of Defense was dealing with the problem in his neighborhood. At the very least, that's degutant. Secondly, he mentioned here the President of the Republic. It is a great pity that in the constant vast ignorance it demonstrates here, he did not wish at least to take a look at what congregation sessions looked like when he sat here in these benches, Tomislav Nikolic. If he had looked at it, he might have seen an interesting session where a man of his ranks had just demonstrated this indignity and that ignorance and this insolence that he is allowing himself now. And he could hear that, first of all, Tomislav Nikolic taught him and that conclusion could also be carried out by this man. It's not a way to become a great and good MP. Those who encourage him to do so applaud him here. As soon as he turns away, he will say, "What has he done to us?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8810	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Risticevic, you will get the word, but first of all, there is a proposal representative, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8811	Ladies and gentlemen, this is how to put on and use the fight against floods with a political campaign for future presidential elections, at least it's embarrassing. You also show disrespect for a country that has fought the floods honestly and has indeed shown that it can be organised and human, and on the other hand you show deep, deep disrespect for Serbian citizens who voted for President Tomislav Nikolic. You may agree or disagree with their choice, as I did not agree with their choice when they chose Boris Tadic, but that was no reason for me to choose the elected president of the Republic of Serbia. The President of the Republic of Serbia is becoming a citizens' will. And speaking of who is best or who is the worst president of the Republic, I'll just tell you that Tomislav Nikolic has not apologized to the Croats, as he said – for the chest we are guilty of working, well, that's for me the worst president in history, if I can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8812	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8813	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am appalled by the discussion of my colleague who, by the way, asked me to be beaten by the offices, and then he called me a bully. So, I was appalled by his discussion for the simple reason that the only flood he saw was caused by himself, and that was the flood of Heineken beer in the palace cafes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8814	The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, with correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People's MPs are getting it. Hold my fists, now. I suggested here to be in Article No. 8, with several positions concerning donations to NGOs, they are deleted, meaning that these NGOs are not given money. It is not clear from the member himself what activities in each member of the money will be used. In some places it is clear that it is about organisations involved in promotion and protection of cultural heritage. I suggested that wherever there's a state organisation dealing with cultural heritage, the state is doing it, and that money be transferred to the Ministry of Education, that's Division 24, to pay salaries, additions and employees' fees. It's a total of 17,5 billion dinars. I think it's much better to transfer money from a completely non-transparent sector, such as the consumption of state money by NGOs, to people who need it much more, where consumption is more transparent and where I think the effect is far greater. I'm not quite sure I understand why this was rejected, ie. What's the argument why this was rejected? I would pray that if someone can explain from the government, which is why the government does not want to from a completely non-transparent sector, the text is not quite clear on what money is going to and where there are already state institutions dealing with this business, the money is transferred to education, or to raising the salaries of educational workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8816	Thank you. Mr. Ristic, you're in the system. Is it the basis of your call? Did you want to speak according to the amendment? (Slavisa Ristic, from the post: I expect an amendment. ) On Article 8, the amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Bajro Gegic, Nenad Milic and Dr Zarko Korac. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8817	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll use the time... (Mirko Krlić, from the post: Please allow me to talk about the previous amendment. Can I continue? If you can allow me to use MPs' time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8818	Mr. Imamovic, just a moment, I'll give you my word. Mr. Krlić, you weren't in the system at the moment. (Mirko Krlić, from the post: I applied after the first sentence. I'll let you. I appreciate your suggestion and I'll let you speak. Mr. Imamovic, you will be given a word after the amendment, but to finish the debate under the previous amendment and to allow Mr. Krlić... (Enis Imamovic, from the post: You have read my amendment. I'll read it again and let you speak. Mr. Krlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8819	Thank you, Chairman. Once again, I apologize, but I really did say right after the first sentence spoken by the MP, who hurt, because all I could hear was not clear and I didn't understand. You should understand and know what you've done here. Deleting what you call funding that you do not understand is a change in one policy course towards Kosovo and Metohija. It's nice of you to say that. I'm glad you've defined your policy as your parliamentary group or at least what it was. It's nice of you to define that. I'll tell you what's being financed from the 481 appraisal. It would've been good if you'd known that, and you could've found out that you've made a little effort. First of all, everything that happens to the SPC, as the last institution of the Serbian people in KIM south of the Ibar River, is just coming from these finances. I'll cut you some slack just to make it clearer. Legal protection, professional legal protection, is involved in the defence and usurpation and destruction of SPC assets. The Red Cross of Serbia is funded, aided by many NGOs dealing with culture, cultural heritage, social protection, in particular, and of course the defence of the human rights of the Serbian and non-Albanian people in Kosovo, as well as the financing of internally displaced persons, the attempt to return them. That's whose side you're on. That's what you want to delete. You put aside those who have brought down 150 churches and monasteries on KIM. Your associates are the ones who dug six thousand graves in Kosovo. Those who have ten thousand religious items, icons, stolen from the market today, the secret market of Europe and the world. These are your allies. You are not interesting to me, and your policy is welcome to be seen and for the people of Serbia to hear what you are talking about, I am more interested in these solid MPs of yours who, out of some opposition solidarity, are a little bit, and are taking pictures in the hall all together. How will KIM MPs and those who call on God here every morning and call on the point of the KIM agenda continue to cooperate with you? It would be nice to hear that you will be hugged again in the hall of the National Assembly. This is not just a policy of recognising the Republic of Kosovo, this is the policy of moving the last Serbian population from Kosovo, and it is nice that Serbia saw it today through your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8820	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Basically reporting, replica, direct address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8821	Thank you. Yeah, well, maybe you weren't listening to exactly my exposure, so I'm going to repeat one of the parts I said. Where there is a state intervention in these areas educational, cultural, whatever you want, there is no need to hire even NGOs, given the non-transparent spending of money, or the lack of proof of how this money is spent. You know, this is state money. And state money comes from taxpayers, they have an interest in knowing how money is spent. So if there's a system, I might not be aware of it, maybe there's a system that would show how this money is spent, I'd love to see it, and then I could accept these arrangements. That's one thing. Another thing, so since there are institutions at KIM there are state institutions, right? Our state institutions. They can do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8822	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirko Krlić, the basis of the reporting of the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8823	I'm talking about south KiM, south of the Ibar River. You should know that such institutions exist there. I suppose you should be so interested as a MP. As much as you are interested in your amendment, here I will read to you, you have signed this, you are a professor of the University, says – the 2017 budget contains, and now you say a lot of mistakes, etc., which publish some "skilled persons", what are "skilled persons" whom you are "skilling", I have heard of qualified, it is your signature, I am sorry that I taught Mr. Markovic, a professor here in the last term of writing. That's the kind of amendment you write. You don't read what you write on your own, and you expect to know how the KIM institutions function. That's how much you know. (Dusan Pavlovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8824	Mr. Pavlovic, we are closing the circle of replicas, I think you and Mr. Krlić have had quite enough time. We're closing a circle of replicas to keep working on the agenda. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the post: By amendments. ) Mr Imamovic, along with another apology to Article 8 of the amendment, was brought together by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Bajro Gegic, Nenad Milic and Dr Zarko Korac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8826	Thank you. Because of the complexity of the amendments, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. When we look at this member of the budget or the budget as a whole from the aspect of national minorities, we see that this draft budget was not really considered to be an effective application of the law to freedoms and rights of national minorities, because these means are simply impossible to implement effectively and adequately. In Serbia, 21 national minorities live, and these people account for about 17% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The funds defined in this budget for education, culture, information, use of the language and letters of national minorities show more than clearly this irresponsible attitude of the Government towards the specific needs of members of national minorities in these areas. We have proposed by amendment that the funds in the National Minority Budget Fund comply with the obligations this Fund has in accordance with Article 20. The Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities, which, among other things, requires that that Fund be established to encourage culture, education, information, official use of language and letters of national minorities. The funds provided for in this fund by your draft budget, amounting to millions and 800,000 dinars, are not sufficient for this fund to meet its legal obligations, according to each of these 21 national minorities, or 17% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. This is not enough to stimulate projects from education, culture, information and equal use of languages and letters for these 17% of the population. The funds defined by this Government for the achievement of the individual and collective rights of national minorities and other communities in all those areas are mildly irresponsible. This budget also does not foresee the participation of national councils of national minorities in the control and monitoring of the implementation of the Action Plan for Chapter 23, and especially of its minority work. When it comes to the regular work of national councils, this amendment also envisioned the increase of funds in the budget to finance the regular work of national councils, i.e. national councils of national minorities. National councils are both under the Constitution and by law the authorities of the minority self-government in the Republic of Serbia who are elected in direct elections and have 21. The funds under the Office for Human and Minority Rights provided for their work amounting to 260 million 393 thousand dinars, and these are not adequate under the apropriation titled "Dotation to NGOs". Neither these national councils are NGOs, nor are these funds sufficient for their regular work and for the tasks that the councils are dealing with, which make up the spirit and meaning of the existence of national councils of national minorities. The question arises how many of these projected funds actually belonged to national councils and how many to NGOs. On the basis of all this, it is not clear how national councils will be able to plan their annual budgets, because it is not clear how much money they will receive. What is also foreseen by our amendment, and what we are very interested in in Sandzak, are the means to build Corridor 11 via the Cave. We propose that in the budget the funds for the development of a spatial plan, amounting to 100 million dinars, and by removing any doubt as to whether they will actually be built over this route. If funds are not allocated in the budget, one big question opens, which is whether the Sandzak citizen will be kidnapped this time and this capital project, as well as all capital projects so far, such as the Railways, normal roads, schools, hospitals, etc. We have also foreseen this amendment for the budget to include the reconstruction of the regional roads from Novi Pazar to Tutin and Sjenica. Anyone who's been that way knows that these are two directions that are convincing and guaranteed in the worst condition in the country. The corresponding road infrastructure development strategy and the necessary investments in underdeveloped areas must be put absolutely in priority. For many years these routes have been the subject of consideration, but there has been no progress in the field so far. Many of the economic branches in our area depend exactly on these routes. Also, this amendment envisioned increasing resources in the budget for the cultural heritage protection system and changing the name of the very apropriety, which is in the original name – support for research, protection, preservation of the cultural heritage of Serbs. We propose to add a further extension to this name, so it would read – support for research, protection and preservation of the cultural heritage of Serbs and national minorities. What the Government stated in its explanation for the refusal of this amendment, which is that it is impossible to distribute funds due to safety violations in rail traffic. I regret to say that we in the New Market, in Tutin, and in Sjenica, have no railways, so that security is not compromised. It is threatened safety in road traffic and it is decades ago, because it is an absolute route from Novi Pazar to Tutin at the limit of usability, and according to all standards it is extremely threatening the safety of all passengers on the road, and I must say that it is far greater than the number of passengers moving in rail traffic. So I expect the government to accept this amendment. I urge you to accept this amendment in the spirit of correct relations and in the spirit of understanding according to the needs of members of the national minorities and to set in the budget the means for the normal functioning of the bodies of the minority self-government of members of the national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8827	Thank you. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Slavisa Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8828	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 to the part relating to the planned funds for the Office for Co-ordination Affairs in the negotiation process with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. The proposal amounts to 36,449,000 dinars. I have suggested that this amount be abolished, that the amount be zero, and that the planned funds in question be transferred also to Article 8 of Section 3, Chapter 3.1.9 of the KIM Office, which refers to the economic classification 4.6.3 of support for the functioning of health institutions in line with the KIM network of health institutions, where the amount of 19 million dinars stands. With this change, the total amount would be 55,449,000 dinars. Why? Because we believe that the Office for Co-ordination Affairs in the negotiating process with the interim institutions of self-government in Pristina should not exist, as I believe the negotiations in Brussels must be terminated, because their results are devastating, as we can see. The Brussels accord kills the state of Serbia and its institutions in the KIM area. Someone just mentioned the monasteries and churches in KIM, their destruction, and I can tell you by the fate and interest of the Serb people in KIM, killing the Serbian state and its institutions is a direct destruction of the monastery and churches of KIM. So, I suggest that this office be abolished and the funds transferred to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8829	Thank you, Mr. Ristic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8830	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, in addition to the reasons set out in the government's reasoning in the context of the rejection of this amendment, I would like to point out that the current finding of the KIM opportunities is known to everyone. They are extremely difficult, complex, which bring a lot of challenges and problems, and in this sense, the Brussels negotiations are the only possibility that this negatively effective situation is resolved, relaxed. This has been done in the past few years, and any other way of politics is certainly damaging to many of the negative consequences in all the spheres of the lives of all Serbs. This amendment should therefore be rejected. The aim of all these talks in Brussels is to remove the negative consequences that were created, first by war, by bombing, then by forming temporary institutions at KIM, and I therefore believe that the interruption of such Brussels agreements further makes the position of Serbs at KIM, with complete certainty, at the very least, that this will be the fastest way to disappear from those spaces. That is why I once again suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8831	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Replica. ) First of all, you do not have a basis for replication, because a colleague spoke and expressed his views on the SNS parliamentary club, why they do not want to accept the amendment that you have proposed. At this point, I gave my word to Minister Alexander Vulin, who wants to talk about the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8832	In 2000, when this congregation burned and after, then the authorities who came to this country could do anything. They could have asked the international community for anything they wanted. They could've been looking for a different area for Kim, starting negotiations or whatever they wanted. No one asked for anything, and then what was done was for the SRJ to ask him to become a new member of the UN. For some countries a little older than KIM. Nothing more. That was what the main thing was done in 2000 when we could do anything. When the pogrom began on March 17, 2004, and when the terrible rampage on KIM began, when churches and monasteries burned, we could do much. We could've done a lot, we had strength, we had different allies, we didn't do anything at all. That's how time went by. Time went by, we were weak, our country was getting weaker, our influence on KIM space, according to the Kumanov Agreement, Resolution 1244, it's territory under the UN provisional administration in accordance with Resolution 1244...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8833	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8834	It's hard for each and every one of us, but it's a fact. So, both in 2008 and later, we could have gotten less and less. I have a million and one remarks on the Brussels Agreement as well as everyone in this National Assembly, as well as everyone on KIM, but that's the only thing we can hold on to right now and keep the position of Serbs in KIM and the position of the Serbian state in accordance with Resolution 1244, and there's talk here and there's a lot of talk about ending all Serbian giving...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8835	Time. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Olena Papuga submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8836	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment envisions a reduction in the amount of 60m dinars that are dedicated to the work of the Public Investment Management Office where Marko Blagojevic is director. The amendment also stipulates that these funds are being relocated to the work of the Office for Protectors of Citizens and Commissioners for Public Information, to be allocated to them by 30 million and one and another office. Since these are independent offices that are accompanied by the work of public authorities, and we know in our reports, I am a member of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, they face a lot of work, a lot of cases, but also few employees. Until recently, they worked in the offices of very rude, small, where all the employees of the minors were placed in two offices. That's why we intended not to increase their funds, because this budget reduces them, but somehow it shifts for their work, because we know that without these independent regulatory bodies, we simply can't work. They control the work of not only the National Assembly, but also the government and all the authorities in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8837	Thank you. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8838	Thank you. So this is a practice that may have existed before, but now it's deepening. Here is the minister with no portfolio who received the post, and this raises the question – why didn't he get the ministry? Mr. Krkobic, therefore, after 100 days of government work, we find out what his duties are in government, public enterprises and even regional development. As far as public enterprises are concerned, I believe that he has achieved his inherited political right under the political aid system by retaining the party's influence on "Serbia's Post Office". As for even regional development, the question arises – what will be invested and what projects are being thought of? Today, we heard from the finance minister that there are even development programs, and we don't know what the programs are, with only 200 million. For even regional development, the whole republican budget is small. Well, the question arises -- besides numerous ministries that have programmes that can be said to contribute to the even development of Serbia, then local self-government, cities and municipalities, numerous agencies, state authorities, etc., why is the minister now getting 200 million without portfolios? So it's clear to us that it is, i.e. that political reasons and only government membership are in the background, but there is really no reason for 200 million dinars to be deployed in one of these ways. We're assuming it could be under the country mail system, which I have nothing against, but it's not a minister's job without a portfolio. If Mr. Krkobic would not mind resting as a pensioner, another 25 million, set aside for the ministry's work, could be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8839	According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8840	I have to really wonder what we're talking about here right now. If we talk about the budget, I don't see any seriousness when an MP can say why 200 million dollars in money has been allocated to one cabinet, if it is regional development, even regional development of the Republic of Serbia, and coordination of the work of public enterprises. Now that you're banalizing things and you think it's opening mail, you're banalizing things. So, opening the post office is something that does mail, and what the minister project was, that's another story, that's the state of Serbia in Serbia's villages. In doing so, you do not know that Mr. Krkobbic, as minister in charge of regional development, travels daily through Serbia, visits what he is in charge of, southern regions where to talk to the presidents of the municipality, points to the problems he has and is precisely his task to pass on these problems to the prime minister, and that projects that will be carried out under these talks are being carried out. So it's completely pointless for you to waste your time just to order something, I don't know who. Your voters? I don't know where they are. (Dejan Šulkic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8841	You have the right to a replica, direct address. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. The base of the replicating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8842	Thank you. There's really no reason for the lady to be this sharp. You make sure that, as soon as possible, in agreement with the Government, a competition for the directorial post that you are entrusted with and that you respect the law there. I know what Mr. Krkobic is doing and that he's traveling, but I didn't ask what he's doing. I asked people to translate which one? You keep saying it's about projects. Well, why don't you say, for God's sake, it's only 200 million dinars for even development? Is that for a trip? It's not funded from those positions. So, travel. These are software-defined funds. You just have to say what you don't want or what we don't know, and it doesn't say anything. To say, yes, it's two, three, five projects, their significance is that, and that's how you justify this budgetary availability. I understand why you are party to defend Mr. Krkobibić, but indeed his allocation and allocation of funds in this way and the way you are appointed as the performer of your duties and the approval of the Administrative Board to have two functions, both the MP and the acting director, is not really any motivation for young people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8843	The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic. The base of the replicating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8844	What I have to tell you is that I am set up in accordance with the law, that I am absolutely certain to run this company in the way that I have to run it, that these results will show. What you don't like is that there are other clues, catastrophic clues we've been trying to correct in this public enterprise since 2012. It's the result of something that you and your crew have worked with before. Yeah, yeah, you guys together. You know who the Prime Minister was then and who then determined what was going on in this country. So I'm going to be in the competition, or if I'm going to apply, we're going to see that, but all I know is that this is a new cabinet that was founded and that takes time. The projects are ongoing, the projects will be and you will see the results, unlike everything you've done, and we see only the negative consequences of everything you've done. And don't forget, you just called Mr. Krkobic to retire, he still doesn't meet the legal deadline. These stories you've been playing for years in the papers to disqualify someone are just cheap attempts to, well, hear something at least. So it's wrong. Mr. Krkobic was never retired because he unfortunately did not meet. It's a dream to all of us to get that pension. But I can see that, for God's sake, all of you sensed something of retirement, and you forgot that you were the same pensioners, at the time that your president, Kostunica, was then, fell to the real limit of survival, barely surviving. Yeah, yeah, that's when the pensions fell to 49%. You can pretend you're all crazy here together, but take the stats, take the back, look what's been going on these years. So, don't keep giving us lessons here, always being fighters for some justice, and you've done everything you could to make a million and 700 thousand people in this country barely live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8845	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8846	First of all, I personally feel that your discussion, I'm not talking about the amendment, the political nature, and it's directed towards a political group, but I have to say that what I answered for, you distinguished colleague, you have to understand better the institution of a minister without a portfolio of debt. So in the government, there is an institution of a minister without a portfolio that gets from the Prime Minister certain responsibilities that are usually related to that area which, I say, is inter-resort nature. So it's not strictly defined for one ministry, it's dealing with problems in the area in several ministries, and the minister without portfolios is primarily coordinating the overall activities of different ministries in a particular area. Thus, Mrs Djukić Dejanovic is in charge of demographic policy, which in her structure is both in the health sector and in the social policy segment, and Mr Krkobic has received this regional development and public enterprises, in particular in this respect co-ordination and in terms of projects. So, this budget, which is very modest, you'll agree, will primarily be in the function of building projects for regional development in several districts where we have a really large number of underdeveloped municipalities. These are primarily Jablanski, Pcinski, Pirotski and Nisavski district, as well as Toplički district. It seems to me that the first actions, which seem very interesting and encouraging to me, are coming from the ministry without portfolios, or from the minister without portfolios, the state of Serbia in the villages of Serbia, the development of Serbian villages, coordination...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8847	Minister Antic, two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8848	... different ministries, very positive and I think you should give it a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8849	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8850	I absolutely support the amendment of counterpart Šulkic, because indeed 200,000 dinars proposed for the ministry's work do not show what will be spent on. If we consider that PUPS has failed everything he has done so far, failing primarily the interests of the pensioners he has represented by reducing pensions during their reign, then we can imagine what he will fail in this ministry without portfolios with imaginary tasks. So it's clear that this is a pups settlement because they left the SPS and joined the SNS. They got to own the Post Office in Serbia and they got to do this without portfolios, do nothing, and have a budget for it and continue to develop their own party that has failed the interests of pensioners. So it is very important to see where the money is going for the citizens of Serbia. Does the money of Serbian citizens, these 200,000 in the budget, actually go towards further development of the PUPS, as a loyal partner of the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8851	Please return to the amendment. Don't do political calculations and nobody owns...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8852	Here, will you, the chairman, then answer us what 200,000 dinars are for? Is this for Krkobic himself? For which particular project and for which specific tasks will he work in this ministry? If you answer that question, we'll keep those funds. But if there is no answer to that question, and it is gone, here is Minister Vujovic, all the other ministers are silent, no one will say what Krkobabi will be given the money for. And I'm telling you, they were given because he moved from the SPS to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8853	You're doing political calculations again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8854	Ask the pensioners what they think of PUPS, who failed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8855	Since you asked me a question, I'll answer you the moment I'm represented. Since I am chairing the session right now, I am going to give this right to a proposing representative. Ms. Mira Petrovic, the basis of the announcement – right to replication. Here you go. Please sign in one more time. Mrs. Petrovic, you sign up one more time and just wait a second. Here you go. The reporting base has been repeatedly mentioned by the PUPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8856	Well, since you've called more than once, I guess I have to tell you. What's really nice to hear here, it's you who remember now the pensioner. Where have you been all these years? Where have you been for the last 10 years? How much do we do for pensioners? Whether the pensioners remained faithful to us or we betrayed them, we'll check it out in the next election. Don't worry about it. You worry about your concern, you watch how you cross the census and who you cross the census with. What we've been with, what we've got in the legacy of running is the nonsense you're bringing out here. The post office of Serbia was led by Mr. Krkobic four years ago, a great leader. He's had unrecorded results so far in the history of the Post Office. You might like it or not like it. He showed how public enterprises are run, and that is a lesson for many. You don't like it, I'm sorry. Serbian pensioners know who cared all these years when it was bad. We took care of them. You're not. You remember them now everyone, when new elections are in sight. That's how you talked about them in the past, because you don't have a theme. You don't have anything else. You have nothing to offer. What are you offering to whom? We made our program. We've accomplished our program. We sincerely care for these people by supporting Prime Minister Vukic's programme, because the country would collapse thanks to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8857	First of all, the right to replicate, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8858	The other day, when we established the agenda for this assembly session, two laws were proposed for amendments and amendments to the agenda, which were proposed by the Dveri parliamentary group. It is one thing for pensioners to be compensated for all that has been robbed through the Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions and, of course, to abolish that Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions, and for the other for the return to pensioners of that provision to comply with the cost of living, i.e. with the rise in prices, also to return to the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund the significant impact of employees and pension societies. Do you know how PUPS voted? Well, of course, to refuse to put this item on the agenda. To never return to the pensioners what was robbed of them, and to continue to manage the post, that they have 200,000 dinars of the Ministry without portfolios, invented, to keep the PUPS calm, as a coalition partner of the SNS. So it's clear that pensioners no longer support PUPS. The pensioners today support the Association of Pensioners' Unions of Serbia, the Association of Retired Military Unions, which led thousands of people to the streets of Belgrade to protest the SNS, the government and such a PUPS that is failing pensioners in Serbia. So here is the key question that the pension issue now has who to represent since the PUPS issued them, and PUPS has betrayed them and all pensioners in Serbia know it and see it in the Two MPs. That is why the Association of Pensioners of Serbia has concluded a social partnership agreement with the Dvori and Dvori have fulfilled their pre-election promise and handed over laws in the assembly procedure that restores what has been robbed to the pensioners. The PUPS, of course, refused to return what they had been robbed to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8859	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, you and counterpart Mira Petrovic have the right to replication. Let me first give a word to MP Miri Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8860	You know, it's very interesting to listen to you, which I've heard you're a bully from Cuck. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but I heard it. Your concern for the pensioners of Serbia is really interesting. What you just said, the laws you've given, so that's utopia, like I would say, and I wish everyone in Serbia had a minimum wage of 1,000 euros. Unfortunately, it's impossible. It's impossible, simply, the economy is what it is and it's inexhaustible. Just because we are conscious, safe and responsible, very responsible for this country, we support all the austerity measures that were necessary to get the country out. What you're saying, the union you mentioned, that union signed protocols with all possible parties, you're just one in a row. They're completely irrelevant. These are the people who are exhausted and who have now tried to find themselves in something else, so that they try to earn some money again in some way. So absolutely your arguments don't stand, and I think it would be a tough fate, indeed, to retire if you were defined to follow you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8861	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8862	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I am advocating article 107 relating to the direct address of the MP. So, Ms. PuPS, all the time, in the course of two of her talks, addresses the MP directly, making a salve of insults, defending the character and the work of Krkobic, PUPS, and showing alleged care for pensioners who, in fact, lost the most during their care. Only then were they deprived of their rights, and they cared about pensioners all the time. Don't let them take more care of the pensioners, and I'm asking you to take care of...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8863	Mr. Aleksic, you called and pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. From what I understand, the point is not to allow direct address, but you will also allow your colleague Obradovic to be directly Mrs Petrovic. If we had prevented the debate, then it would have been to prevent a democratic conflict of opinion. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8864	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, that's the basis of the party's mention, several times in a row, it's not disputed. We wait patiently, and this is how one debate was initiated with the desire for someone completely politically irrelevant to get a little attention. Well, it's not bad in that sense that you've passed out the basics for replicating them. That kind of attention really shouldn't be given. The question has been raised – what do the pensioners think? I don't know if it's familiar to anyone, but there were some elections where those pensioners were entitled to vote. Indeed, the pensioners have shown their opinion. They were able to show very clearly, and they showed exactly the support for the list on which Alexander Vukic was headed, in case anyone missed it. They've heard of him and that list anyway. And for those associations that were mentioned here, they're not safe. When we mention the robbery, it's still not bad to wonder who our pensioners must have heard of. So, for some associations not, or even for a party, movement, whatever it is, that man who tries to give himself meaning here, but they have also heard how well for DOS and all its variants and subversives, who also has that loud, but a man with no content belongs and himself and who persistently advertises here. Today we seem to be starting a topic, and where he sees himself in all that, what could he be there for? The presidential candidate, we've concluded long ago, has not been able to absorb it, although it is offered to everyone, no one cuts it 2%. Then what's left? What could he be? Not even the head of the election staff is definitely not, because how do you expect him to organize another person who can't even control himself? No, we know that reliably based on the behavior in this room here. For though he insists on initiating the replicas and keeps going in them as he bares his thorns, he returns for more. Perhaps, possibly, the role of a regular pijun would be very good in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8865	The minister has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8866	The pensioners said what they think in the election, and that's more than undeniable. I'm not saying that at all, and it would be really nice if we all worked less together on politics when we talked about the budget. The pensioners, who they trust and what they believe, said very clearly in the elections after their pensions were reduced. So they weren't surprised by something, but the pensions were reduced. They understood why they were reduced, so as not to eat the future of their children and their grandchildren and give strong support to the list led by Aleksandar Vukic. So that's more than clear. But let's just talk briefly about the citizens who are watching us, which is that the largest number of pensioners now, at this point, has a higher pension than they've ever had before. Is that enough? It's not close enough. We have 1,726,000 pensioners, 1,060,000 have more pensions than ever before, than ever before. Of course it's not enough, but it's the result of decades of paying small contributions, poor businesses, robbery privatisations that left people without a related internship, not politics of one or two years. I'll remind you, in two years' time, that we paid off our debts to military pensioners, we split our money and paid off our debts to military pensioners, paid off our debts to agricultural pensioners, paid off all the debts we had through our system, without even the slightest credit debt to do so. Just from the arrival. Take care of the pensioners in this country and I use this opportunity just to thank them, to thank them for their trust, their patience and hope that our generation will be as little as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8867	I can give you a peaceful amendment, if you like, or is it old in the system? It's in the system, okay. If I give it to you then I must give it to Miri Petrovic. So I decided to circle the system, because I listened to everything, what you had to insult the PUPS, you insulted it. So now a little bit about the amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? But that's the Rules of Procedure? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8868	I thank the esteemed president. I have no doubt that the largest number of pensioners received nominally higher pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8869	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the pensioner has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8870	I'm sorry, it's Mr. Secretary's statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8871	Oh, no, they're already replicas and it's something else. You have to follow the amendment, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you have to replicate. It's a replica, it can't injure the Rules of Procedure that you're correcting incorrect data, so you're asking to discuss an amendment or a replica. You don't have to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you have two options that elegantly allow you to talk about the subject. Please be nice. Miladin Ševarlic, from the post: I want to replicate Minister Antic. So if he's been discussing it, and he's been discussing it, I'll let you speak according to the amendment, your attitude to state, but first let me see if your group has time, just slowly. You can speak according to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8872	But that's not our amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8873	Then what did you say, that you were correcting the information provided by the minister? Well, then, discuss the amendment. I'm not wasting your time, your time is being spent by someone else. So, do you want to discuss the amendment? (No) Well, the amendment discusses 250 MPs, yours, ours, Perrin, Zikin, Mikin, all one thing. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ivan Kostic. Does Ivan Kostic want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8874	Dear Ministers, the chairman, MPs, I have no doubt that I will receive an answer to this presentation, as I have received on this amendment, which is insolent and insufficient for me. What I would like to say here in front of the citizens of Serbia and in front of the MPs and ministers who may not know this information, but the reason for writing the amendments is that the funds were allocated to the diaspora and to Serbia in the region are extremely small. It is a frantic fact that more resources in this budget are allocated to the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja than to the entire Serb community, diaspora and the region. In Article 8 of Section 3 for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Medvedja and Presevo, 261,000,000 dinars are allocated. What citizens need to know is that 90% of these project funds go to members of the Albanian people. So, 260,000,000 goes to Albanian people in southern Serbia, and the entire diaspora goes to 100,000 plus some divided into other ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. At the Diaspora Administration, 100,000 that stand out for Serbian organisations, are not unique only to organise a diaspora of Serbs in the region, 50% of these funds go to organisations that have their place of residence in Serbia. In the ministry of culture, Mr. Minister, for the Serb community in the region, only 20,000,000 dinars stand out for information. You should know that Serbs in Tirana and Albania today have neither the right to education nor the right to inform, and I question how much funds are allocated to the Serb community in Albania? For citizens watching this transmission, it should be known that Serbian media do not have any correspondents from Albania. So much for our relationship with our community in Albania. Also, a question should be asked to the Ministry of Education why three salaries are not paid to people who are teaching additional lessons for Serbian children in the diaspora. So these things that I've presented are facts, and it should also be said that many resources are being allocated to projects that violate directly Serbian identity in the Republic of Serbia, such as promoting Montenegrin ideology and Dukljani ideology. This is funded by the Diaspora Administration and the Ministry of Education to finance a textbook that finances and promotes montenegrane ideology. So that citizens should know what the government's relationship is through the budget to the diaspora, Serbs in the region, and we can freely say that this budget makes sense and benefits only for the oligarchs who are close to the authorities and for our European friends who will get huge funds again, instead of being given to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8875	Thank you. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8876	The answer I received was formal character, not essential, so that I would still appeal, especially, to Mr. Vujovic, who I had a very high-quality dialogue with this morning according to the amendments and two days ago, to take another look and think carefully about whether they could come out and allocate more funds to the Ministry without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy. The government of the Republic of Serbia itself has put democracy and population policy and the issue of the birth problem as one of its priorities, although I am skeptical of the entire concept of the ministry and the minister himself who runs it, I am not sure that it can bring results. I don't think we have any choice but to give the next year as some chance to see what the Ministry can do. No matter what I think is wrongly understood that only through local self-government, a certain kind of analysis is being carried out, we think that double the financial resources need to be defined in order to make more quality of allocation of these resources and help local self-governments that have a low birth rate in their projects. Also, the second part of the amendment refers to a good project "Halo Baby", where we predict that with 3.6 million dinars, more funding for the project, means 9.6 million, because the project "Halo Baby" has achieved extremely positive effects, and has been of great importance to many families in Serbia. We don't think the funds we're proposing are large. We think that they can easily change in the budget itself, which we have proposed and would contribute and make it easier for all young people in families with newborn children and those who want to have children, to facilitate their intention and future. So, indeed, I call upon all MPs, since I think this is a matter beyond politics, to come out to meet the family and accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8877	Nedjo Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8878	I thank you, President. We in the SPS parliamentary group would be much more pleased if the amendment were submitted with a motive for honesty, not populism. There's more political motive here than anything else. For what? Because the facts clearly and unambiguously state how much money has been realized for a single ministry, such as the Ministry without a portfolio is in charge of demography. For the first time in so many years, a government is defined as one ministry, such as the Ministry without portfolio, that the task of dealing with demographics, the most sensitive part for one nation, for one system, for one state, and especially for Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because in Serbia, unfortunately, 38,000 people are less each year, which corresponds to a local self-government that is the size of Vrsca, possibly Paracina, which is a relationship between the mortality rate and the birth rate, so we have 65,000 born to 100.00 dead. It's a fragrant piece of information. Frapantic is the fact that the state of Serbia, unfortunately, is an old country. The average age in Serbia is again, unfortunately, 42.2 years of life. These data, as data that cannot be doubted, indicate the necessity to deal with this issue. The minister who is in charge of this issue, extremely sensitively devoted herself to it, regardless of whether anyone wants to believe or not, regardless of whether someone has expressed a skepticism just to get a certain point in a political sense, it is doubtless that for the first time a single step is made. Why? Out of 169 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, only five have a positive pillar of natural origin, only five. It's a terriblely worrying piece of information again. The minister who does this job has revitalised the Demographic Council. Reminders for the sake of, and for the sake of truth for the citizens, the Demographic Council has already been established once, but has never lived in either functional or any other sense of the word. Now, at the head of this Demographic Council, there will be no one but the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister of the Government, whether anyone has sympathy or antipathy, the weight and authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, at the head of the Demographic Council gives enough and weight, gives sufficient chances that this particular body is dealing with what has long, long, long been no one has dealt with. Encouraging birth and increasing the birth rate is a basic task for both this body and this ministry without portfolios. Is there anything you can do overnight? He won't. Will something be done in a short time that implies a significantly better condition than it is now? It won't, but in 2017, there will be a year in which many pilot projects will live, which will first show the demographic image as it is, will be analysed, and afterwards this demographic image must be improved, gradually, for years, given that it has been destroyed for years and decades, it will take a lot of time to return and therefore it should have great confidence in this Ministry without portfolios and the minister who runs this portfolio, i.e. the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8879	I don't think it's according to this amendment. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from town: Related to demographics... I'm sorry, then. Here you go. [[Srjan Nogo, from the place: I think I have the right to a replica. I was misread.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8880	Obviously, I was misread. I was just saying that this amendment should allocate double the funds to the ministry, with 130 million almost 260 million, so I really don't understand the exposure of the previous speaker, when I want more funds to be allocated to the ministry's work and precisely to those projects that he mentions himself. So, I think he misread me. But here's another thing that's interesting. I agree, for the first time in a long, long time, we have one ministry to deal with extremely important issues, it's demographics and natalities. But I would remind the citizens of Serbia and the MPs in this assembly that in the last 26 years over 20 years, it has been in power right now and why the SPS has not raised the issue earlier, because it is all these negative trends in the demographic population, high mortality, that low birth rate can be attributed to the period when the SPS was in power. And now, after 26 years or 20 and some years of your authority, you've remembered that there's this one problem. I'd like to remind my previous esteemed colleague that the Dweri are someone who advocates family and family policy, and by that we're recognizable, and I think you're also recognizable by LGBT rights and something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8881	You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8882	Thank you, President. I understood my colleague very well, and I think my colleague understood me very well, but it's obvious that it's thesis replacement again. It's not in any way about whether or not to give a boost and a stimulant to this ministry without a portfolio. I spoke out loud and clear about the motives that he has come forward with when this amendment is concerned. To give double the resources, of which is 10 billion that are provided and given for projects like this that will somehow contribute to improving demographic imagery, is it small? If the party whose representative is the amendment has so many funds and can provide them, feel free to give them, there are no problems. This government had one very rational approach and this approach goes according to one tried out principle, each stretches as far as the leper allows. For this, the ministry has been given nearly enough funds, even significantly more than anyone else expected. So if we're going to talk populistly, we can ask that this ministry be provided with 50 billion and 100 billion and I don't know how much longer, but it's important that it's provided just as much as it could be provided under the given circumstances and as much as it will allow this ministry to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8883	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8884	Thank you. Like all this time so far, measures like this, where one ministry without a portfolio is given this kind of money will do nothing to repair the demographic situation. She's doing it some other way. This is typical party employment and giving money to a party parasite system, which will only spend that money, hire some party people, and as far as demographics are concerned, will not make any change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8885	There's no replica, because he really didn't talk about parties. Partly, this applies here to all parties that are in parliament. [[Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Partocratic, how is it not a replica?]] He can't. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8886	It was really nice to watch Mr. Neđa Jovanovic be recognized in the party-parasitic system, and that for the SPS is characteristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8887	Let's talk about the amendment. Don't be such a fighter now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8888	It's just the point in the amendment. So, we from the Serbian Dvora Movement, we rest, our policy rests on family policy, in support of birth, young married couples, families with more children, over-indebted families who can no longer pay for their loans and pay for municipal services, because people simply lost their jobs in robbery privatisations. The country does not have a planned and organised policy that supports the family in Serbia. Family is not the first place in our society and state. The amendment is trying to give additional funds to an imaginary ministry that should move something on the plan of family policy, the fight against white plague, as the most important state priority right now. What's the problem? There are two problems. The first problem is... Do you know how this ministry came into existence? We need an SPS to give another minister next to Ivica Dacic, so here's some demographics, over there, no portfolios. You don't know who, what, what's the idea or anything. But there's another party parasite that's known very well as a party parasite. On the other hand, selecting Alexander Vukic as Chairman of the Demographic Council is total nonsense. You know why? For five years, the government of Alexander Vukic did not remember the fight against the white plague. Why is the Demographic Council in place only after five years? Didn't the SNS know five years ago that the white plague was one of Serbia's biggest problems? So you didn't know, you're not competent, don't push yourself where you don't understand. You don't know anything about demographics, you don't know anything about the family police, you don't know anything about the fight against the white plague. If you knew, you would have established the Demographic Council and the Ministry of Family Care five years ago, as Victor Orban did in Hungary. You haven't done it in five years and now there's no one else in Serbia to lead the Demographic Council, but Alexander Vukic has to. That SNS falsification has indeed become one of the great pains of Serbian citizens. We're all sick of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8889	Are you a professor of literature? I'm fascinated by the dictionary, really. I can be surprised, too. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8890	Replica, Madam Chairman. To run a demographic policy, you don't need to have advice, but you need to do something concrete. The Serbian Progressive Party has specifically worked through the Ministry of Health, you know, on the problem. As for representing the interests of families in Serbia and society, then you should go public and condemn all those who insulted the family and children of Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8891	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8892	Thank you, President. When you have a party in a parliament whose programme is based on phraseology, then you can expect nothing more than such a step. phrases, phrases, phrases and just phrases. In addition, parties seeking their identity still cannot be parties relevant to the political scene, but we will not deal with them, in any case. The same applies to the previous speaker, before such unfounded criticism was brought to the SPS by Mr Obradovic, it also relates to Mr Radulovic, who exhibits without any argument, without any factual justification of any skepticism that from demographics there is nothing, that these projects are completely pointless, etc., because I do not wish to quote him. I wish, if you could, that Mr. Radulovic would answer both us and the citizens some questions, when it comes to spending financial resources, because we will certainly come to this topic, Mr. Vujovicu, which is spending funds in certain procedures, especially bankruptcy. In particular, did the bankruptcy directors, including Mr. Radulovic, pay off the bankruptcy without the consent of the bankruptcy judges, anything that could be assumed under legal business? Secondly, are these procedures consciously and systematically delayed, leading the state of Serbia to Strasbourg, as the sad side, which requires significant funds to be paid to Serbia's budget burden? Is it true that property was not listed in the opening of bankruptcy proceedings, which is the basic obligation of bankruptcy managers? Finally, when it comes to the distribution of these funds and everything related to financial structures, is it true that Mr. Radulović was the bankruptcy manager of Sekerarana "Dimitrija Tucović", and at the same time a consultant of "Hipo Bank" who was the trustee of the sugar company? If these questions were answered, they would demystify in general the motives that make them come forward in this way. It appears to cover up what is obviously neither covered up nor covered up. Whether the SPS has been doing anything in the last ten years, it remains exclusively for voters who have shown in the elections who they will vote for, that is, to vote for a coalition in which both the SNS and the SPS and the partners who make up the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8893	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8894	I hope I get the same time. I thank my colleague for giving me the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8895	He took time from the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8896	You let him, let's say, in group time, tell stories about things that have nothing to do with the amendment, but the fact is, these are completely false and insinuating. Let's get back to the subject. The theme is that the SPS has been in power for so many years and that during that time, while the SPS is in power, we have a complete collapse of demographic policy, people leaving the country, young people, children being born abroad, we have a mortality rate of over 100,000, and we are born only 60, 70,000 children every year. A party that is synonymally, apart from the party in power that has overcome, party employment, the fostering of incompetent party personnel, which are making huge losses in the public sector, to come from "Srbigas", and through all other companies that have personnel from the party. Citizens should know that's why they're cutting pensions. The party that voted, somehow hid from the SNS, and to cut pensions and maintain this whole parasitic system, is now reported to be talking about some things that have nothing to do with the truth. So, Serbia's central problem is the party's parasitic parties that are destroying Serbia, which bring to the most important places the worst personnel leading us and making huge losses. If we look at this budget, you can see clearly, 47 billion dinars are going to cover the losses of public enterprises that are hoarding the budget, 47 billion dinars, pensioners have been kidnapped 20. So, two-and-a-half times a year, he's going to do damage repairs made by party personnel from what was taken from the pensioners. Therefore, it is hypocritical to even talk about the state introducing order anywhere. It's only taken from citizens and businesses, and that's what the parasitic parties are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8897	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8898	It's interesting that someone defends themselves to questions. I just asked a question, nothing more. I did not expect answers to these questions from those who answered those questions, but from the relevant institutions. They'll surely know they're giving an answer. On the other hand, Mr. Radulovic's dream is a reality for the SPS, because his dream that he would be in power as much as the SPS would remain in the realm of dreams and nothing else. That's what we're convinced of. On the other hand, the SPS has done a lot on this field we're talking about. In the previous term, if we are already talking about what is related to the distribution of money and dedicated use very rationally, and very effectively, on the other hand, it has just been done in one ministry that is not related to the ministry that we are talking about, that is the Ministry of Agriculture, where these subsidies that have been granted and done and aid and support to agriculture households have affected that families in the villages remain and survive, that children are born, that families are being renewed and that we have what we haven't had in a long time ago. That's what the SPS did. That's what the SNS will do along with the SPS. This is what this ruling coalition will do in the interests of citizens, in the interests of the village, in the interests of agriculture and in the interests of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8899	Thank you. Let me see who wants to talk about the amendment. Shormaz and Mira Petrovic, about the amendment. Just to see who has the desire to talk about the amendments, because we've gone past the amendment again, to my taste too. What do you say, MP? [[Saša Radulović, from the post: By Business, Replica.]] It's the Replicator's office. [[Saša Radulović, from the post: By Business, Replica.]] Well, it's a good thing you told me, because I decide on the replica, so I'll let myself. You know, I'm a man who's been thinking for a long time. So, it doesn't cut lightly, just to see what to do. Take it easy. I have MPs who want to talk about the amendment, and I have MPs who want to replicate until they pass out. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Again. Here we are. Here, Bosko Obradović something concrete. Let's finish the replicas. Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8900	I would only like to say when it comes to demographics, and to remind myself, that in the previous period, as they say in the fifth, I will say for four years, that we are here in this Assembly, I, in front of the PUPS, have launched an action to amend the Health Protection Act just to increase the birth rate in this country. As the mother of three daughters, I kept defending the old one, we didn't fight it, and we used to do it in the city of Belgrade, where all pregnant women who maintained their pregnancy had full payouts. We managed to do this precisely in this House, within this coalition, which was then on Serbia's territory. All women who maintain pregnancy receive full pay, thanks to us. It is not true that nothing was done to increase the birth rate in this country, and it is not true that we are not in Belgrade, and later in the Republic, we insisted on financing artificial fertilisation. First, by funding the second procedure, then the third procedure. So really leave those empty stories for another story.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8901	Just so you know, I'm taking everybody's time. Say whatever you want. Just make sure they don't have any more time after the parliamentary group. So it's not me. No breaks, we're almost there. You want to talk about the amendment? Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8902	I don't want to sound like someone who thinks the amendment promoter didn't have a good intention, because when we talk about demographics, let's say in the language of the people, so we should be born more than we are dying and be as much as possible, but for all of this we have to run a much more responsible policy, even if it's a good intention of the amendment, some other MPs of the opposition who join in helping to support the argument over this amendment have somehow brought the matter back to the question of demagogy. I have to say one thing, this is the 17th budget in which I take part, even two federal ones, a bunch of rebalancing, my humble opinion is, that this is the best ever proposed budget to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, predicts the smallest deficit so far, and what a trend it has been in a year, while the government is run by the Serbian Progressive Party and Vojislav Kostunica, here's my lapus, Alexander Vukic, in that time more and more, in that time we have an increasingly less deficit, and in that time my opinion is, here is the calmed lapus is, what now, but it will be less absolutely certain. During that time our country's social policy at the time of savings, so I repeat this is savings, all about social policy and what's related to demographics is also fine. It's getting better and better and it's all going in the right way. It has been increased by this draft budget to 10.62% of the social contributions budget, where both mothers and all other parts of social policy are concerned. Never smaller, and this is what those who deal with the economy should know. Never less public spending ratio, meaning, in GDP or budget, only 36% of the budget compared to our gross social product. This means that our real sector is growing, which means that all investments are justified, and that means that what the government is doing is calming down on the country's political climate, working with the IMF and the World Bank, working with the EU and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8903	Ambassador, go back to the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8904	Well, it's about the amendment. So, in order to have a better climate, if the prime minister announces a reduction in the labour tax, that means that our citizens will have higher incomes, in other words, that means that the demographic picture will certainly change for the better. But there's nothing you can do overnight like some people think. It has to be done seriously every day. That's why 2017 will show it, not only with this budget, but now I'm telling you, be assured...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8905	I must interrupt you. You've come out of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8906	Winning the first round of Serbian Progressive Party presidential candidate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8907	Ambassador, just about the amendment. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Kostunica. No, it's an honest man. When something happened, it was. Not like you, just to blame. He says it's fair, something was right. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by an MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8908	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment that I'm going to explain to those who may not have read what this is about, there are three parts, and it was my attempt to find in the budget lines that would allow money to buy another gamma knife, four other magnetic resonances, or one syder knife, that we don't have. So it's about the most modern medical achievements that could be used in the country of Serbia with the aim of improving and facilitating the health of our citizens, and on the other hand to save certain financial resources, because the interventions that work on these issues often cost us a lot of money from the budget, or from the funds, and I will try to explain it. So, since 2015, the Clinical Centre of Serbia has been using gamma knives. It is an opportunity to conduct three interventions without opening the skull, mainly in neurosurgery, per day, and I have suggested that funds be made available for the purchase of another gamma knife, so that our users would not have to go and pay for these interventions in Turkey, at a cost of 7.5 000 euros or in Croatia at the cost of 5,000 euros. For that we have professional people, we have the opportunity to attract people from the immediate environment. A similar situation is with a cider knife, where interventions are conducted in Turkey at a cost of 20,000 euros, four magnetic resonances representing a narrow diagnostic throat in the country of Serbia, would be aimed at Novi Sad, Niž, Užice and another one in Belgrade, and I also suggested that we withdraw those funds, primarily from that office that coordinates the EU programme implementation systems. So that is the policy of the Serbian Dvora Movement, and we can get it from those potential investors who know that often come to a country of Serbia like locusts and the same to leave as locusts when the country relaxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8909	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8910	I thank the president. My amendment is to cry out for something to be done for agriculture, village and cooperative. The day before yesterday, in principle, with Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic, we absorbed that, according to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development in the 2017 budget, 27,5 billion were reserved to round up. This is, in practice, 40% less than prescribed by the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, or a minimum 5%, of the total tax revenues as explained by the finance minister. That's why I've proposed, and that's why I don't accept the government's response to the Citizens' Protector, probably not at all slowing down, reducing budget expenditures by 33%, because that's less than the farmers' 40% reduction. If the burden of financial consolidation should be borne evenly, then I don't see why farmers should bear more. The earlier the damage to farmers, i.e. the agrarian budget, the reduction in the agrarian budget was far greater and far more pronounced, but only when I agree with the finance minister and the minister of agriculture, as the figures move above 50 billion for the period from 2014-2017. In doing so, I received official data from the Ministry of Agriculture on the implemented agricultural budgets, i.e. the realised subsidies in agriculture and rural development, but since we do not have final accounts for the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year, I do not know how much tax revenues are realised to determine this. So I'm going to ask the finance minister to get that information from one of his competent associates tomorrow so that we can collect that information and finally get the public to know. So let's do something for agriculture and the village, because we have practically 150 thousand family owners less for the last 10 years between the two lists, and that's 500 villages with three hundred rural hosts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8911	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8912	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was even willing to accept this amendment, but I read it carefully. So someone proposes that money be removed from European integration and added to agriculture. I might say hello, but then we'll lose 175m euros from IPARD. So someone has proposed that farmers in Serbia lose 175m euros. So I'm going to say again, that our farmers are hearing about false care for their households, the gentleman suggested that we lose 175m euros from the IPARD that we should get if we are in European integration. Number two, what bothers me, are very distasteful you from church education, I don't know which organizations you're paralysing on that organization, they're very distasteful about integration into the International Community, etc., but they're not squeamish about money. Here is the Star project from which Mr Dragin and Dusan Petrovic received 58,000 0.32 euros and 97 cents as a project manager, to further increase this by 4.518 euros, which was a consultant for 15 days. The project was intended for livestock, but they distributed money to their friends, here's the contract, here's the signer who asked farmers to lose 175m euros to international integration, but that's why he charged himself well. In a few days, he took exactly 62,000 550 euros and 97 cents. They're the ones who are paralysing on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8913	Here you go. The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8914	I have never received so much money in my life, and that is one misinformation repeated repeatedly in this House. Since MP Risticevic has submitted a parliamentary question on this basis, I also ask that his parliamentary question be complemented, and here he is present as the current agriculture minister, Mr Knezevic. I got a bigger fee from him than I got on that project. These are the total funds allocated to the project for the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Agricultural Co-operation, not the funds allocated to me personally. There were six foreign consultants and a number of our consultants. The number is absolutely untrue and that I have ever received from anyone. I've received far more from RIK's vice president for a study I did last year. As far as European integration is concerned, I know very well what European integration is, I did not say that the possibility of using funds from European funds is diminished, but I said that something that is an office cost is reduced. We cannot join the EU with uncompetitive agriculture. If you think that with 40% reduction of farmers in 2017, then 17 billion and 648 million suspensions in 2016, with 15 billion 315 million in 2015 and five billion 650 million in 2014, I won't talk about 2013 because it was the first time that the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act was passed, which was prescribed 5%, but was added to the part in the law that says – extremely in 2013 could be less funds. Therefore, I expect that I will receive data from the finance minister on the realised revenues at this age and finally clarify once how much it has really been cut off for subsidies in agriculture and rural development in these four years, since the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8915	I will give Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture. Knezevic is not a minister of agriculture, but I will accept that you do not know who the Minister of Agriculture is. The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica. Minister after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8916	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of full truth, here I am also the conditioning coach of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8917	Ambassador Konstantinovic, don't harass the employees. They're doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8918	It's a home education to close the door behind you. For the sake of full truth, I must say that there were 12.5m euros in the STAR project. I hope the Minister of Agriculture will say how difficult it is to determine how they've been pillaged and how they've seized the money that was intended to restore livestock on the Old Mountain. The loan the state is due to repay was 12.5m euros from the World Bank. The finance minister will definitely determine that. The interest was very nice 0.25%, but instead of going to livestock he went to various consultants and fake projects. The association of Serbia's agrarian economists, Miladin Sevarlic, of 60,000 euros, was not all paid out, but 58 thousand 0.32 euros and 97 cents were paid. As a consultant, Miladin Sevarlic receives another 4.518 euros, totaling 62,000 550 euros and 97 euros. It's not only that they took the money, it's that they damaged farmers who could get six thousand cows for that money and every day deliver from the Old Mountain healthy milk, dairy products, but instead of livestock, we started loading fat consultants from suspected organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8919	The word has Miladin Ševarlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8920	I don't know who needs to determine whether these organisations are suspicious, but I can only say that the Agrarian Economists' Society is among 15% of the world's scientific-reference institutions among the agrarian economy. That's what the American websites show. Secondly, the European Association of Agricultural Economists has entrusted us with five European seminars held in co-operation, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Assembly of the City of Subotica, from 1990 to today. As far as this information is concerned, I'm letting the public discuss it. Never did this amount belong to an individual. It was a public competition in which numerous organisations competed. There are organisations that have received far greater amounts, and in the rest of the Strategy for the Development of Agricultural Co-operation is available to the public and to all members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8921	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8922	Thank you. Two things I'd just like to say. The first thing concerns an incentive which, in the coming days before the MPs and I think it is important for the public to say that what you said concerns 5% of the value of tax revenues for incentives, you better read it. The law says it's up to agriculture, not incentives, to secure 5%. When you get and add up all these numbers, we agreed two days ago when we talked in principle, that those figures match the figures you were talking about. Another thing I want to say, on the basis of the parliamentary question, the Ministry of Agriculture has taken steps within this project. We have a duty to answer every MP's question, anyone to direct it. We have formed a special commission that has barely found the documentation relating to these projects in question. Everything the Ministry has found, all the complete documentation, the complete procedure, will be delivered to all those who have asked parliamentary questions and those who have shown interest in it. If there are other problems, we'll deal with it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8923	Here you go. Let me just say it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8924	Thank you. The minister and I agreed on two things two days ago. The first is that incentives defined by the Agricultural and Rural Incentives Act, which cover direct payments, include rural development measures, include credit support and other incentives, which are four positions, 27.5 billion orientational. Secondly, under the possible new law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which the minister announced had already been proposed to enter the assembly procedure, under this term "incentives" would be added to the other categories provided for in this budget, which amount to around 30 billion. But it's still less than 5%, and we agreed it was 3.8%. In that case, if a new law is passed, and I believe that this congregation majority will bring it, it is a difference of 11 billion dinars that farmers will receive less in 2017 than they will under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8925	We can move on. To Article 8. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Do you want a word? You have to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8926	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to ask you if I accidentally overstep a little, to take time from the MP's group. I've been listening very carefully all day to what's been said here today. Some would like to force investors, some to talk about partocracies, and at the same time at 19 companies were bankruptcy managers and women were setting up jobs for themselves. So much for partocrats. But all of them, together, jump up like the fallen ones when the pay of the Protectors of the Citizens is mentioned. To be perfectly honest here, it's a very important institution, extremely important. But certainly not so important that someone can have a higher salary than the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, or ministers after all. This story of ensuring that his independence is meaningless, because I suppose if you want to help the citizens, and I'm offering a rewarding question to all of you here, what's the name of the person Mr. Sasa Jankovic protected? Do you know the name and name of the man that Sasa Jankovic protected for all ten years almost his term? There's no such person. If you were looking for a gun, you wouldn't find it. During that time, his cabinet has an abnormal salary. By the way, I agree and I know deeply that the amendment I have filed is not in accordance with the Civil Protection Act, but I filed it on purpose for two reasons. The first is to surface the hypocrisy of those who otherwise did not object to Governor Šoškovic's salary of 700 and some thousands of dinars, but they do know Jorvanka Tabakovic to object for 400 and some thousands, i.e. 300 thousand less pay than that Shoskovic. But when Sasa Jankovic, who has almost the same salary as Jorgenka Tabakovic, is mentioned, that is a terrible problem. We'll agree that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's job is a little more complicated, and if we're going to be honest, and more dangerous than Mr. Jankovic's job. But it came out with all the hypocrisy, because these people are only protecting their guru. He does nothing to protect the citizens, he exclusively works on his political promotion, and he does it all the time. The institution of the Protector of Citizens, I've had the opportunity to visit her in Sweden, where she was born, where you have four Protectors of Citizens and every year the chairman of that body changes, has nothing to do with this institution here, as they introduced it. I'm reading today, complaining Mr. Jankovic didn't come to the Assembly for five years. There hasn't been a report here once. He never remembered then that he objected, but therefore, of course, he always remembers to object when it comes to the current government, because he has twice filed a report here that is more a political pamphlet. His report is a purely political pamphlet. I'm just going to tell you, dear citizens, in his report, it has been written in time that a systematic torture of detainees is being conducted in Serbia. When I asked him – excuse me, give us one piece of evidence in which the prison in Serbia is being held with systematic torture, you know, these reports are being read by strangers, someone will think that we are a country who knows what kind of, we beat prisoners in prisons, he didn't know how to give an example, but he did well. Like, say, he talked about the systematic discrimination of national minorities here. That's what his report says. When you ask him – give us an example, there is no example at all, but it is important to write it because he thus justifys his money from those he receives from abroad. I have submitted an amendment that his salary and salary for his entire cabinet is reduced to the level of the prime minister's salary. Are you saying it's a small salary? You know, everyone here jumps up to our MPs to preach how we have high wages. MPs no longer have the right to travel expenses at all, they have no right to do anything, but everyone knows they're talking about our salaries, and the pay of the Guardians is forbidden here to talk about, because it's an untouchable person, because he's not allowed to be mentioned by anyone. If you mention it, experience the media link, experience the worst possible haranga, because it has absolute protection as a white bear in this society. We want to break it off. We want to talk openly about what he's doing. He doesn't do anything except run his political promotion and is likely to run for president or help another presidential candidate. It doesn't matter, but he used and abused all the time, dear citizens, and the money he received was used for his political promotion. After all, all these media that jumped, and all those who jumped to defend him, could at least praise our intentions. We wanted that money, and that's four million, and, of course, 600,000 dinars, I ask my colleague Tomic, I think that's how we calculated it, and we wanted to give it to treat sick people, especially children who have to be treated abroad. Well, at least they could have commended us. I know the amendment can't be accepted, but in principle, I didn't want to pull it. I wanted to lead the controversy about this, because they made this nadal system that here a bunch of different officials, different directors, can have salaries three and a half times as much as the Prime Minister. Now, that has to change fundamentally. I understand that there's got to be a bigger salary for him working in flight control, we don't have a lot of those experts, I don't mean flight control management, I mean first of all those people who are experts in that area, he's got to have a high salary because he's going to go abroad, the governor of the National Bank should have a high salary because he has such a function, but I don't see why these so-called independent institutions would all have abnormal salaries, three and a half times as high as the Prime Minister. That's why I absolutely insist that this amendment remain, that we discuss this. Whether the Assembly will adopt it, I don't know, but on principle I don't want to pull it, because I want Serbian citizens to see what hypocrites are sitting across the street and what hypocritical media, the so-called fake elite, is behind Mr. Jankovic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8927	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8928	Dear President, I'm reporting for the amendment, I'm going to use the time of the parliamentary group, although I expected you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this is the most brutal violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker spoke of everything except the amendment he submitted. The applause that announced the address of MP Djukanovic indicated that this was not accidentally said, nor that this is something that only one MP's opinion is, this is the position of a parliamentary group that I must admit, the Democratic Party and all citizens of Serbia, which is much more important, is not a surprise. This abuse is not just a relationship to independent institutions, for which, unfortunately, we have been witnessing here for a spot year as they collapse. This is much more than that, mocking the citizens of Serbia. If the parliamentary group of the entire budget, which represents a framework and talks about how citizens and citizens will live in the coming year, chooses to present as the biggest pay problem of one of the people at the head of an independent institution, it is much more and more clearly possible to paint the intentions. If you want to talk about work and if you abuse and talk about work in this way, then I ask you to finally put on the agenda reports not only of the Protector of the Citizens, but of the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection, Commissioner of Equality. I'm not talking about their character and their work here, I'm talking about all the problems that citizens face, all the human rights and problems they have with government, so this is the most nakedest possible political abuse and much worse than that, messages to clear citizens and mocking them from the everyday lives and problems they face is the most important political abuse of stories on the subject for the SNS parliamentary group. In the end, I expect the applause that announced this presentation to be accompanied by a vote for your amendment. I trust you won't listen to the Prime Minister and vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8929	Okay. We heard what this group's gonna do, and what other groups are gonna do, we're not. Wait a minute, I'm full of leaves, slow down. You're not on that list yet. The word has a People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica, but I have to give to Minister Vulina, whom I did not give before my colleague Vidinovic, and he had the advantage. I'm asking for a little tolerance, you'll get it right away, just so the minister says, he's the draftr of the budget, at least that's how much you've learned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must say that at the very least, I protest that an institution like the Citizens' Protector is equal to Mr. Jankovic. Those two things have nothing to do with each other. The citizen's protector is an important institution, and Mr. Jankovic is a presidential candidate and a political man on a daily basis, so I'm asking you that we don't accidentally connect these two things to each other. Mr. Jankovic is a man whose political work we follow. He's legitimate, and he'd be even more legitimate if he didn't sit in the position of the Protector of the Citizens and not use everything the Protector of the Citizens gives him. But I don't want those two things to be equated in any way. As far as this government is concerned about the institution of the Protector of Citizens, I'll give you an example. The protection of citizens is the only institution that has not agreed to reduce and rationalise employees. No one's been fired with the Guardian of Citizens, the material costs aren't cut, most of them go to pay. Of the 216 million, even 179 paid off. So, the Protector of the Citizens is guarded and alert, there's no way he's getting any lower on him. No employee has been fired. Workers have been fired in all ministries, in their homes of health, fired in agriculture, in the social community, have been fired everywhere, but not with the Protector of the Citizens, because this is something most important for us and we must not allow the ingenuities of this important and large body to be reduced. Don't let Sasha Jankovic make us lose such an important institution. I will try to convince Members of the Socialist Movement not to vote in favour of this amendment. I hope they'll listen to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8931	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8932	It's a miracle that this is a political abuse that I suggested the amendment, and you don't see its political abuse and what it does. He's constantly in the campaign. Please, all citizens, there's one on his website, read his reports. The first time Mr. Marijan Risticevic told me to read his report, two or three years ago, when it was, I couldn't believe it was really a political pamphlet, and then I took my own eyes and convinced myself. I only ask the citizens of Serbia to understand that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is something that is very important and that we must cultivate. The problem with that institution is that the man who is at its head today has destroyed that institution. That's the biggest problem. I'll tell you why he hasn't been replaced. Because you've passed a crazy member of the law that makes it almost impossible to replace him. Because you have a member where he writes – if he was unconsciously doing his job. How do you mean by “unwittingly doing his job ”? Because, of course, you'd make the whole media hack and the hack to, of course, support it because that man has the greatest media logistics possible. It's something amazing. As you mention it, that's how you experience the media lynch. Both Mr. Risticevic and I were witnesses of this because we were crucified on all front pages. That's why a man like that has to get paid because he doesn't deserve what he's been doing now or receiving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8933	Thank you. The word is Marko Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8934	I think it is obvious that the proposing's intention, as he said it was, was not to adopt this amendment, but to dedicate this part of the debate to the character of Sasa Jankovic, who performs the function of the Protector of Citizens and to repeat the lies and the bestial attacks that come from both the SNS and the individual, but also the institution that he represents. That campaign does not choose the means and does not choose the words and says everything that comes to anyone's mind, quite clearly. The only question is, will we hear the famous bell in the day of the vote, when we get to this amendment, or won't we? So, all this debate and this conviction that Minister Vulin is talking about, how he's going to convince someone now, none of it matters, all that matters is whether it's going to be a bell, because that's how this Assembly decides in this term. The bells – for, without the bell – nothing is pressed. That is why it is time for the elections and for this ruling majority to leave, to ring the last bell and get off the back of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8935	Thank you. The word is Nemanja Sarovic, because he was so rebelling. I really can't give you over the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8936	Thank you. First of all, I think it is an interesting question why we are even discussing this amendment and why this amendment has not been rejected. That's what used to be practice and that's what should have been done, but, I think, it was still more important for the ruling coalition to use this for, I would say, a late shoot with Sasha Jankovic. Now, in 2012, the SRS was against Sasa Jankovic. We knew then that he was a servant of the West, whom the "yellows" brought not to perform the function he needed but to make some other adjustments in society and to perform as needed. It shows how late your ex-sense is for what we in the SRS knew in 2007, I mean, when he was first elected and when we criticised it and were against his election. Secondly, you don't have a problem with Sasha Jankovic, you actually have a problem with your own staff policy. You choose Sasha Jankovic, you vote, you praise him, it's been a while, you say -- nothing good, a criminal, a thief, like this. You pick Radulovic, it's been a few months, from the genius of the financials, there's the thief again. Push Boško Obradovica into the Assembly next to Scott, allow most of you in RIK to get that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8937	Ambassador, this has nothing to do with the amendment. There really isn't. This is about the protection of citizens' pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8938	Here, I'll lean on the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8939	Don't rely on anyone, just the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8940	Thank you. Then you're talking about salary heights. So the salary is not even approximate to Jorgenka Tabakovic and his. And, if you're already talking about hypocrisy, so whoever's doing the most responsible job in the country, who's been watching for 24 hours and three more minutes over this country, Alexander Vukic. Shouldn't he have the highest salary? Now, the governor of the National Bank is 5,000 euros, and the prime minister of the government who, I guess, directs this whole number of Serbia, is thousands of euros. Well, isn't that hypocrisy, isn't that demagogy? I think so. If you're talking about demagogy and hypocrisy, go all the way. Go all the way, not this one's good, and this one's not good, or today's good, and tomorrow's not good. At least we know who we're marking at first that nothing's wrong, it's not right. Therefore, when you talk about hypocrisy and consistency, look first at your ranks, and Sasa Jankovic is from your ranks. You chose him. They all chose him together in 2012, held hands, all the MP groups, because there was no SRS to break up this unfortunate unity, as we are now doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8941	Based on what replica? By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8942	I thank the chairman. So it is the amendment of MP Vladimir Djukanovic to Article 8 and it is the right of MP Vladimir Djukanovic to propose on the draft budget, the amendment he wants. So this is his personal attitude. The SNS parliamentary group is thinking differently and will not support this amendment. His right is also the right, as in the previous session, he decided that the only one of us would not support the Commissioner's report, or the Citizens' Protector, and he voted against his report in the past term. Because he believes politically that his report was not a report by a Civil Protection Officer. Don't yell at me and please warn the MPs, I have the right to speak of this amendment. The essence of this amendment is not what we heard earlier than those who feel that this amendment should be rejected. The essence of this amendment is, as far as I understand the promoter, he will correct me, that the protection of citizens' salaries is currently 400,000 dinars and that he can rightly protect the citizens of this country and for some more appropriate, as you predicted 216 thousand, something like that. So he can protect us, all Serbian citizens, in the right way for 216 thousand dinars. And that's the essence of his amendment. So let's talk about it. Not if we need a Protector of the Citizens. We need it, we agreed at one point, someone passed the law, and now we have the Guardian of Citizens. Whether he's doing his job or not, with the post of MPs, I'm also the President of Parliament, and I won't plead, because it wouldn't be right. But whether someone can work better for 216 thousand or it's money, so the best thing they'll do for 400,000 is talk here, and Vladimir Djukanovic has the right to ask that question in front of parliament and the public of Serbia. Then why such a loud reaction, that someone has no right to ask – because you can do that job maybe a little better for 216 thousand dinars? Or do you have to have 400,000 dinars? That is the essence of this amendment. That's the point. What he said about the governor having so much and so much pay, he said, 400 grand for a very responsible job, to run the finances of this state. Prime Minister, don't look at the Prime Minister's name, so you're jumping here, you don't like Alexander Vukic. You don't love him, well, my God, but he does a responsible job, as did those prime ministers before for about 120,000 dinars. His work is obviously, by your standards, less important. Well, it's not like that. The president of the country has paid so much. The President of Parliament pays even less, and you MPs don't say your job is worth anything. Hold on to that. Your basic salary is 68 thousand dinars. No one will convince me that the people representing the citizens of Serbia are doing a much less important job directly than the Protector whom we have chosen, representatives of the citizens. So let's think about those categories. Could the Civilian Protector be able to do the job properly for 216 thousand dinars? Come on, then, let's raise his salary to have more, to have 600, to have 700, to have a million dinars, if these are the criteria of doing a very important job. So, I can't support Vladimir Djukanovic's amendment, but I understand his dilemma, whether the Citizens' Protector can pay a little less in this big financial crisis to protect citizens who don't have ten or 15 thousand dinars of pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8943	Thank you. The first right to replica has a National MP, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8944	Thank you, Chairman. To the truth, I am very jealous, this amendment, I personally submitted it, as Mrs Gojkovic said then, against his report, and if I were an MP in 2012 I would vote against his election. So we're completely clear here. And, my colleague Risticevic is one of those who voted against his report, because all his reports are political pamphlets. I agree with you that it is rarely wrong in some of that frame. Why? Because whoever's doing this is wrong. The one who doesn't do anything can't be wrong. So that's the point, and it's good, Mr. Vukic admitted that one of his former ministers was a big mistake. Unfortunately, now he's sitting there talking about partocratism, but it's completely insane. I'm just here to say that the essence of this amendment was to bring about a controversy, to finally edit the system here, and to surface the hypocrisy of the so-called. the fake elites here that stood behind Mr. Jankovic because he forcefully imposes on us that they are elite and no one but them has the right in public to accidentally compete to come to such a place. You can be an academic, but if you're not in that Soros group, you can't come to any of the media because that's how it was done here on their part. I just wanted it to come out so-called. These patriots, the patriots who stood up so loudly now to defend Sasa Jankovic, the leader of a Soros group who, unfortunately, is harassing Serbia here. So much, from me, and I'm glad that this kind of controversy has led to this, let the public see who here is essentially thinking about any savings and who is even thinking about sick people. Nobody was going to mention that other part of the amendment, and we wanted that money, of course, to reroute people who had to be treated abroad to get more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8945	By amendment, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8946	We've heard a lot of things in this debate, and it's certainly good to have an argument, but it would be good to hear some valid arguments. If we're going to talk about what he's doing or whether or not the Citizens' Protector is doing, put his report on the work here in the assembly debate, and we'll have that debate. I'm sure the opposition can't do that. So, come on, gather your courage and put it on the agenda. This assembly didn't work four months after the election. Well, it took two months to start working. Well, and what we've been doing until this session, it's nothing. And, that's the majority, nothing. An empty story, no part of it. And then one institution that deals with very important things, protecting citizens from the unconscious conduct of state authorities, you're trying to get through the mud, bringing the debate down to a lower level and leading a political campaign. You muster at least a little courage to discuss what and how the citizens' institutions are doing and how the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are threatened by the work or work of the state authorities, because if you read that report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Serbia, we would be concerned about what country we live in and what is happening to us, because this is where this dialogue should be conducted, not on the media, where we hear a moaning someone can't come, and it's by an MP who has his own show on TV. So he's got his own show, and here he's talking about how someone can't come to the media. Well, who here can't come to the media, whether they're across the street or us on this side, since I see that's how we share in conversations and discussions in the Assembly? So this debate once again shows all the hypocrisy of SNS, Alexander Vukic, and it is obvious that the only fate of this amendment will depend on the bell, on the bell in the day of the vote. Luckily, it'll ring your bell soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8947	Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8948	I have to say, here, if we're already talking hypocrisy, dear Mr. Arsic, since I have to talk to you, if we're talking hypocrisy, yes, right, I'm running a television show where you work guest if you want to come, but the problem is that you never want to come. But even more hypocritical is that you made one television that you can spit so hard today. Now, that's what's the greatest hypocrite. And don't talk about the influence on the media when you directly as a politician took part in making television. It's just something that's scandalous. As for the Protector of the Citizens, never for five years his term of office until you were the authority to put a single report on the agenda, never and never objected to it. This current government has twice given him a report on the agenda. I'm sorry, we went out five times as much as you did. You're not once. So I really don't understand, if you want to deny me the right as a MP to express my position on his work, that's already your problem, because you have a dictator in your head. I have the right as a National MP to speak of his work, because he is subject to control by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I have the right to appreciate his work, I have the right to comment on his reports and I have the right to give my judgment on his work, which is disastrous, because he destroyed that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8949	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8950	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been called three times. I am the one who twice voted in favour of both reports against the citizens' protectors' report, i.e. against politicians' report by Sasa Jankovic. I have nothing against an institution called the Protector of Citizens, but Sasa Jankovic was just a camouflaged political activist who had turned his political activity into this valuable institution. He is only a politically painted party activist, expensively paid and Mr. Djukanovic is mistaken. I know a citizen who was protected by Sasa Jankovic. That citizen's name is Sasa Jankovic. He's a protector, he's a protector, he's protected from everything, he's protected from the law, and this place should belong to a very high-level lawyer who's a prominent human rights lawyer. That's what Sasa Jankovic never was. And to tell those who go out, the great critic of the '90s, Sasa Jankovic was a high-ranking official in the government of Slobodan Milosevic, that they know those who go out there, turn their backs, will not close the door and since we had a Protector of citizens in Vojvodina and that we never had a problem with him. In my personal name, I say I will vote in favour of Mr Djukanovic's amendment because the reduced salary does not include this quasi-protector of citizens, but the future real Protector of citizens who will come to his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8951	Thank you. The word has Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8952	Respected presidents, respected ministers, Sasa Jankovic has proven many times so far that he is not a civil protectionist, that he is a politician who uses his office to be politically accounting with the government and the prime minister. Article 10a of the Law on the Protector of Citizens clearly states – The Protector of Citizens and the Deputy Protector of Citizens cannot give statements of political nature. But he has long shown that Serbia's laws do not apply to him. Sasa Jankovic deals exclusively with her political promotion, she does absolutely nothing from her job, but therefore neatly robs citizens, taking 3,000 euros a month for a salary he did not earn. Is it Sasha Jankovic's job to wear a yellow duck during working hours in Belgrade? Is it Sasha Jankovic's job to keep quiet while the unscrupulous king of bankruptcy insults journalists and the media? Is it Sasha Jankovic's job to keep quiet while proven thugs insult and physically attack a member of the RIK? Is it Sasha Jankovic's job to keep quiet while insulting and threatening the family and children of Alexander Vukic? Of course not, but he does it without any shame and therefore takes 3,000 euros each month. I fully agree that Serbian citizens deserve to have the Protector of Citizens, but do not deserve to be Sasa Jankovic in that place, because who will protect the citizens of Serbia from the politically harmful activities of this Citizens' Protector?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8953	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8954	Indeed, this amendment deserves to be said a few words. When it comes to the Citizens' Protector, the current one, Sasa Jankovic, we certainly had the opportunity to open a debate about his report so that we could tell him everything we think we need to tell him. It is absolutely undeniable that Sasa Jankovic is a politician, a pro-Western politician, and that was both in 2007 and 2012. Someone who presents himself to the Citizens' Protector never in his report, for example, lasted seven years, in his report did not write that there is a Serbian citizen, his name is Vojislav Seselj, and that in The Hague tribunal he is in custody without a first-degree sentence for 12 years. And you gentlemen have never asked Sasha Jankovic about such a thing. I remember in 2012, when he was elected, that Jorgenka Tabakovic had so many nice things to say about him that I thought there was no better man in the world, so I wondered what we Serbian radicals were saying about Sasha Jankovic. But, gentlemen, if you really wanted to discuss it, and we did, why did you allow the Justice and Administration Committee to discuss his report in his absence? As a member of the Committee, I asked and insisted that he be present on the Committee, so let's take a good look at him in the eyes and let's talk to him, and ask him if he is a candidate for President or Protector of Citizens, whether he is Sorosev's politician or Protector of citizens who receive a salary from the budget, from a budget filled with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: He did not want to come. ) If he did not want to come, then there is no debate on the report, so it is said to the public – see, MPs cannot discuss the report because Sasa Jankovic does not want to come. I interpreted that you didn't want that kind of debate, because why would you allow it, we discussed this report for a few hours and there was really nothing to say, but it was about an empty story because he wasn't there to talk to him. So be honest, whether you want to discuss it that way or now you're using it for day-to-day policy use. We Serbian radicals are consistent in everything, even so. Sasa Jankovic was not a good choice either in 2007, nor in 2012, nor a good candidate for the president of the Republic. No one forbids him to be, but he can't be the Protector of the Citizens and a certain candidate for some group that's running for him. So, let's report, if you didn't want on the board, call Sasa Jankovic here, we have a report, so let's have a nice chat about it as the right MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8955	Thank you. I have to give it to a member of the 96th Proposer of Law. I don't know how to give when it's full of leaves. Come in. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, had already spoken.) No, he's been mentioned. So two minutes of replicas have rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8956	I would really like to ask all MPs to return the debate on the frameworks of the budget, not to deal with politics here anymore, and not to let Sasa Jankovic become a synonym for the Citizens' Protector and not become a synonym for this important institution. You're even talking about the wrong data here. It's not true that the Citizen has a salary of 400,000 dinars. That's just not true. According to available data, it has only 376,648.03 dinars. So, not nearly 400,000 dinars. Don't say that. We're telling the truth in this debate. All 376 thousand dinars, everything, so really lame. You know, out of the total budget, only 216 million, he's giving the entire 179 million on the payroll. So we're not going to cut, we need to even increase. Look, 90%, 80% he puts on salaries, there's no room for anything else. Not now because of Sasha Jankovic to lose this important institution. He's a legitimate, political DOS candidate. Legitimate, all right. It's not exactly right to drive a public car when it's going into an election campaign, but don't let it. I thank all MPs who make the difference between the Citizens' Protector being the most important institution, and Sasa Jankovic is a DOS candidate, someone who should definitely be politically experienced. So, please, let's not let this important institution get even with Mr. Jankovic. He's not that important that we throw the baby out with dirty water. It's just not good enough. So, please, MPs go back to the budget, go back to the citizens, go back to their rights, and I guess there will be someone who will someday represent the citizens really as the real Protector of the citizens, so let him have a bigger salary. I would also like MPs to have a higher salary, deserve it, as they deserve both members of the government and certainly the Prime Minister, and besides how he does the job, so Serbian citizens said. As you can see, this part of here, all the way up there, says...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8957	Time, Minister. So all MPs are mad at me, now they're angry with the SNS. We have an out-of-date system, we can't change it, because the media is attacking us to spend money and we've cut the budget. It's not my fault he can only do it later. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: terrible.) It is, it's terrible. We're down. We've been adopted an amendment, if you didn't know. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "When?" Yes, it is, the government adopted it, I guess that's how much I know. Yes, it became an integral part of the bill, the first amendment was. Read the papers when you come to parliament. You didn't read anything. He's been accepted on the board. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: There must be a vote. ) Ambassador Djurovic, I am sorry you are not present, absent, in, out, you are not very focused. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, a replica. What replica? Please help me. (Alexandra Tomic, from town: Maji Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8958	The mention of the SNS by the letter. The Serbian Progressive Party stands for the preservation of institutions, especially when we talk about the protection of human rights and what did the proposer of this amendment want to draw attention to -- what is practically the height of earning people who guard the institutions and those who guard the system? Whoever Sasha is, Misa, Pera, it's important that he performs his duties as Protector of the Citizens. The moment you decide to do some other public work, you have to leave that post and you simply have to go to Serbian citizens to say that you have entered politics and to go to an election campaign. Whether the size of the activity in a particular institution is three times higher in the monthly amount of compensation compared to the prime minister or the president of the state, it is for Serbian citizens to know, first of all, the truth and in the next elections to decide and support changes. Should the protection of citizens' salaries or any institution be perhaps twice as large or twice as small? It should be said that in the annual amount the difference between the salaries of high-ranking officials, prime ministers, the president of the state, the institutions proposed by my counterpart Djukanovic is the difference of five million dinars in the budget. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector, I will not speak on purpose about names, because they do not matter, it is an important function that you perform, until the moment that one of the representatives of the institution was here, in front of the MPs, that all the state authorities adopted those recommendations of 94% of the recommendations...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8959	Replica, it's been a while. Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8960	Thank you, President. I am reporting under this amendment, given that the amendment promoter has on several occasions requested from all those involved in the discussion some specific data and I have reported to the team and I would point to two very important ones. The Zorica Jovanovic case against the state of Serbia in front of the European Court of Human Rights, the rights for missing babies, the 2013 verdict, the legal force, which obliged the Republic of Serbia to what, to find itself in the legal procedure for a long time, short-listed to call it, the law on missing babies. A great credit to all this was taken into account in the 2010 report by citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic, as a key argument taken into account by the European Court of Human Rights and imposed emergency measures on the Republic of Serbia, although it has been delayed for more than two years. Another important thing with concrete facts, it also refers to the amendment's proposal to bring them out, is what he has crossed into a "sorash group" within which the Citizens' Protector also recognised, in a concrete sense, Sasa Jankovic. I would just like to inform the MPs of the majority, especially the SNS and everyone else, that, for example, one of the capital programs and projects of your Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has just been funded and is still being financed by Soroshe's Open Society Foundation. All verifiable on the official website of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, at the same time as you take away the safest income for municipalities and cities, which is part of the profit tax, it's good Sorosev's money and his foundation to finance the Ministry in all projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8961	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8962	Thank you, President. It's been 30 minutes since I answered the line. Thank you for your opportunity. Today and the last four days, we're talking about the budget, about the most important law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8963	Minister, please, you can't hear anything in the O.R., don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8964	I don't mind Minister Vulin. It's much worse that it bothers the citizens of Serbia. For four days now, we've been talking about education, health care, young people, women, education, local self-government, how citizens and citizens live, how all of us as MPs can, by submitting amendments, fix the budget and influence their lives in the coming year, be better. SNS deputies participated as much as they participated in these four days. All their amendments were directed at this amendment. All their discussion is about one man, not one institution. I don't think I'm talking about it. President, you, taking part in this discussion, have strongly stood behind the allegations of MP Djukanovic, all ministers, several MPs of the ruling coalition and you are absolutely right, President, when you said that citizens are all clear, and they understand that this is a brutal violation of procedures, that this is a brutal attack on institutions, that this is a brutal mocking of citizens, because you are as the biggest problem that citizens have chosen to pay you a man who leads an independent institution, and in this sense it is clear to all. You have strongly defended what you are hypocritical about – I ask you not to vote on it. That says so much about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8965	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8966	Thank you, Chairman. If the Soros Foundation is funding someone in the ministry, it's good to put a little money into the budget as much as they've put this country to rest, I'm glad they're getting the money back somewhere. The problem is that they finance the political activities of some parties here, which they want to destroy the state. Now, that's something that's completely different, but we'll talk about it another time. But here, the President-in-Office, it's just amazing to me that someone jumped like a trigger to defend their presidential candidate. It's just amazing, for his money, we'd jump from 20 floors to the head. And that's something that's fascinating. I don't mind if he's your presidential candidate, if he wants to deal with politics, I don't mind, just don't abuse the function of the Citizens' Protector for his election campaign. It would be honorable of him if he resigned when he went into politics, then went into a pre-election campaign, and certainly won the voters. On the other hand, there was one big remark here that no one wanted to talk to him, or he couldn't be at the Committee's session. He didn't want to come to the board meeting. He avoided coming to the Committee's session, and that's what's problematic. He doesn't want to talk to the MPs because he knows we'd ask him very awkward questions there, and because we want in the right sense that we're controlling his work. He's not a white bear, he has the right to get a question from MPs. And if he wants to do the campaign, I call on him again, it would be more honorable if he resigned, went into an election campaign, and there's no problem, and you're free to protect your presidential candidate to the will, only the citizens of Serbia should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8967	In the meantime, I've gotten you an amendment if you'd like to see it, I'd be happy to give it to you, if you're interested. I'm talking to Mark Djurishic. Necessa Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Article 103 has been injured because I have been reporting to the Rules of Procedure for more than 10 minutes, raising the Rules of Procedure, telling you that, and in the meantime three or four speakers have received their word. A member of 104 who regulates the right to replication and says – if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about another MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates, has the right to reply. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose parties belong to the MPs, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. So, this article I read only mentions MPs and MP groups. Under no circumstances can the minister get the right to a replica. The participation of the Prime Minister, or a representative of the Government, of ministers in the work under the amendments, is regulated by Article 158 who says – the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator of the law, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular cannot last longer than three hours. Vulin, he spoke according to this amendment, took advantage of the time, and there's no business basis, no, under any circumstances, whatever someone said to him, and nobody told him anything, he can't get another word. They used their time. You may be invited to have more, Mr. Vulin, but that's no basis for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8969	You've wasted your time now, you don't have to insult, this is the minister. The minister spoke for two minutes. He's entitled to a replica. Read the Rules of Procedure. So, if they mentioned him. They did. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: No right. He has a right to a replica, you don't know how to read the Rules of Procedure. Dot. That's my explanation, and yours is whether we vote or not. There's no such thing. No, I don't. No, I don't. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: May I plead? No need, I'll take two minutes. You can, say, we can hear you. Do you want to vote? Tell me, I hear you. No, I can hear you. Do you want us to vote? (Inea Sarovic, from the scene: I do not want to throw away.) That's exactly what you're doing. Thank you. No more reported under this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Serbian MP Filipovic. Do you want a word? Be nice and sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8970	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted, as well as my colleague Djukanovic, an amendment in which I ask that the post of Citizens' Representatives, not Sasha Jankovic, he as an individual is not important, we have said so much about him, I will say some things, that we do not say that this institution is being reduced to an acceptable measure, given that we are in a time of saving, that we are at the time of tightening of the belt, since we had to work to recover our public finances, to recover our economy to raise the economy. It is unacceptable that in that and such a situation, therefore a difficult economic situation, someone who presents himself as a guardian of citizens has 400,000 salaries or 376 salaries, I apologize, there is a big difference, a really huge difference, and we could collect some contribution to add to it that it has 400, I guess it will work better. It is unacceptable for someone who wants to protect the interests of citizens, in the time of saving economic crises, at a time when the country needs to be raised, when pensions are to be raised, when we need to work to further strengthen the economy so that we can raise wages, that someone receives 376 thousand salaries, and plus to receive who knows more money from their friends from abroad. Something that's good for citizens to see, and it's good that they saw it tonight, that when you mention a protected saint, for some of the opposition Sasa Jankovic, they jump like a broken one. Everyone's defending him. They're defending more of him than they're talking about pensions. They're defending him more than they're talking about the economy. I'd like to talk more about the factory that they've closed down, more about how they haven't worked the roads, more about why they haven't done those draining channels, more about the agriculture they've mutilated, more about the cooperatives they've ruined. It would be much better to hear that than to defend the institution's salary through the function of the Protector of Citizens. We are introducing into Serbia European standards, European values. We lead Serbia into the EU, we advocate maximum respect for human rights. On the other hand, functions and institutions of the Protector of Citizens are very important for young democracy such as democracy in Serbia. But it is also important that each institution demonstrates, as the MPs say, that for a decade and more do not raise salaries, such as reduced salaries and pensioners, such as reduced salaries in the public sector, to strengthen and raise Serbia, so let it show that the Protector of Citizens is responsible, to give up something himself, to pay the difference we are now looking for, to pay the Fund for the treatment of children who cannot be treated here, to be treated abroad. What I'm saying is that this is the responsibility of the government. The Serbian Progressive Party and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are responsible for the citizens. We are introducing into Serbia European standards, European values, and we are leading Serbia into the EU. We are in favour of maximum respect for human rights, and on this side the function of the citizens' protection institutions is very important to democracy, such as democracy in Serbia. But it is also important that each institution demonstrates, as the MPs say, that for a decade and more do not raise salaries, such as reduced salaries and pensioners, such as reduced salaries in the public sector to strengthen and raise Serbia, so let it be shown that the Citizens' Protector is also responsible. Let him give up something on his own. Let me pay that difference we're looking for right now, let him pay the Children's Treatment Fund that can't be treated here, to be treated abroad. Also, I want to say in the end that some can only dream of stealing again. Some can only dream of taking Serbia into bankruptcy. Some can only dream of driving investors out of Serbia. It will not be possible, as long as SNS and Aleksandar Vukic are in Serbia, investors will come to Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8971	Be correct, listen to your colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8972	... The roads will be built in Serbia, jobs will be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8973	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8974	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Of course, the institution of the Protector of Citizens is an extremely important institution, but when the institution of the Protector of Citizens calls someone who says this - Serbia's Filipovic, candidate for the council member of the Old Town Municipality on the G17 Plus list. He joined the DS today. Filipovic says -- as a member of the G17 plus of his age, that he joined the DS because he wants Serbia to move faster, I believe that DS is the one who, as Zoran Djindjic said, is pulling a European car and I want to help the most organised and most energetic party to get to where we all want to be as soon as possible in Europe. That's why I'm going from G17 plus to DS, and we see that the DS has crossed the SNS, so maybe he'll come back again, because we're going to win the election now, back to DS, but we won't see you again, Mr Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8975	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8976	Thank you, Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8977	Go home if you want to sleep, MP, don't yell. I'm just asking for a few seconds off. So, please, whoever wants to discuss stays in the O.R. Whoever doesn't want to talk makes noise, I'd ask him to leave the other MPs who still want to participate in the debate, so they can prove it. This way we can't do it, one of them is discussing, and the others are talking, yelling, a very ugly picture goes public. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8978	Thank you, Chairman. You know what, who's doing this and making mistakes. You can call on someone to come back, I would never come back, but I know that you suffer deep inside, that the pain of that mental pain when the beer runs out and more when the support of the citizens runs out, more specifically when you're gone. It's even sadder that you're just like your citizens in the community from which you left the waterless, that you've ruined that community. And tell me you're talking about European values. I've been fighting for these European values since the start of politics, and you're wandering from beer to three billion. I think you still prefer these three billion somehow, as soon as you can't get them back to your community. You're a record player in ruining everything in Serbia. Everything. What you've touched, you've leveled everything with the earth. You left 500,000 people out of work. Who did you find to call? What are you talking about? Where'd you get the fairies, expensive cars, where'd you get millions in bills? Where'd the pasture buildings come from, where did they come from? From where expensive watches, "Milk Republic" in Novi Sad, rigging tenders, setting up public procurement. Let's talk about it a little bit, not you talking about European values, you who have collapsed, so people started talking in Serbia -- I'm sick of the EU and everything, so we managed to get back...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8979	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8980	Here I go. ... Let's throw up...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-08-0.u8981	MP, it's past replica time. Thank you. Dear MPs, appreciating our time in the debate today, esteeming that they are ministers and sitting for more than an hour and a half and listening to what we have to say to each other, and we have nothing to say to them and we also desire to continue the content and quality of the debate on the draft budget law and other accompanying laws, we will continue the debate tomorrow at 10.00 in the morning. I know you'll welcome this decision of mine. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 9:00 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session today by Ambassador Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue the search in detail on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Parezenovic. Do you want a word?
