ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12922	We can't cross now, because you scheduled yesterday for 10.00 hours of voting, and in 1400 hours, the session will continue. And when the session starts at 1400 hours, then you can apply Article 287 and ask questions. We had a problem here and an interpretation that when the voting day is scheduled, no questions asked, it doesn't matter if it's Tuesday or Thursday. You are now making a precedent for one question that we have agreed, with protests from certain parliamentary groups, that it cannot. And if you've already scheduled an extension session in 1400 hours, you can't schedule it in 10.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12923	I can, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 287.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12924	But you can't go on if you've already scheduled for work in 14.00 hours. You can hold off for a moment. There's a member of the Rules of Procedure who's talking about postponing the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12925	That's right. We're done voting. So I have a list of five MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12926	But you can't delay for earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12927	I have a list of five MPs who think I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12928	MPs have been informed that at 1400 hours it is further, that we will continue to work and that there will be questions at that time. That's what you said. It's in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12929	MP, well, you don't have to ask a question. Thank you. Vojislav Seselj has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and also as President of the SNS – what will he do to replace Jorgenka Tabakovic from the post of governor of the National Bank of Serbia? The procedure is complicated, but can be implemented, and Jorgvanka Tabakovic has hardly compromised the function due to dishonest and unfair treatment by plagiarizing doctoral dissertation. Jorgenka Tabakovic was found to have copied 20% of her doctoral dissertation from other authors by not citing sources and not putting out signs of allegations. It's a crime for which God knows no great punishment for prison, but for intellectuals it's like a death sentence. For an intellectual, he'd rather die than be caught as a forger. I hope there are still intellectuals in your ranks who understand what I'm saying. Of course, I am not much of an optimist that you will do something about this, given the Tomislav Nikolic case, which has been found to have acquired the calling of an economy master, and that no single exam at the university has taken place. All right, he was getting grades without showing up for his exam. He had a lot of energy from Professor Ljubisa Stoimirovic to invest, to run from one of his colleagues to another, to beg for a positive assessment, sometimes a very high grade. Although we were looking at Tomislav Nikolic's graduate master's work, we couldn't find out that he was cheating on someone because it's such a bad quality that it's impossible to prescribe it from someone. It just doesn't have a role model, it doesn't exist. It's about the theft of intellectual property for Jorvanka Tabakovic. She stole someone else's intellectual product and there's no stricter offense in the academic community, no worse offense in the academic community. If we are going to tolerate that, and if Aleksandar Vukic is going to remain passive on this issue, and Jorganka Tabakovic is running as your party candidate, we expect the party to request her resignation for moral reasons. If you really think plagiarizing is illegal, if you think plagiarizing is desirable and expected and common, then you'll stay on your hands, and you can defend it, because it's not much plagiarized, only 20%, and it could be 25%, it could be 50%, it could be 100%. So she was a modest desire in this intellectual theft. He has severe consequences for social morality. You saw when they caught the plagiarism of some German minister's mild character, that they immediately resigned. Nothing. How come we're not when we're hanging out with the Germans the most now and we're closest to them?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12931	Time's up. It's been five minutes. Thank you. The word has Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12932	Dear President, I am asking a parliamentary question to the MUP, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. It is widely known that each country's defence minister, including the Republic of Serbia, should have exceptional moral values besides others. That was not the case with former Republika Srpska Minister Dragan Sutanovac. During the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Sutanovac, the Serbian Army fell to the lowest branches. Sutanovac reduced Serbia's army to a lower level than the hunting society. Sutanovac retired a large part of the best senior staff during the best years of his life, when they were largely capable and experienced. Dragan Sutanovac removed 26 Serbian generals, wartime commanders, sector chiefs and administrations from Serbia's army. Is it true, and I argue it is true, that Dragan Sutanovac, as military minister for the acquisition of mobile radio relays via "Yugochemia" damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget for about 270 million dinars? Is it true, and I claim it is, I ask the departments in charge, that Dragan Sutanovac, as minister of military, assigned his best friend, Alexander Babac, to jobs worth 156 million dinars and that he signed dozens of contracts with the firm "Medikalker" in time from 2008 to 2010, in which his best friend Babac was the marketing director? Is it true, and I claim it is true, that military minister Dragan Sutanovac paid for the upgrade, i.e. that the repair of VMA software is 850m euros, which is four times more than the computer program cost when it was bought? Is it true, and I claim it is true, that Dragan Sutanovac, as military minister, ordered the helicopter to transport food for horses, or haystacks? Is it true, and I claim it is true, that Sasa Radulovic, better known as the bankruptcy king, as the bankruptcy manager of the construction company "New Highway" gave millions of accounting jobs to the company "Business Service" which was registered to his wife in which Sasa Radulovic was co-owner? Is it true, and I claim it is true, that Sasa Radulovica has punished the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Directors with 100,000 dinars, and the Commercial Court in Belgrade has dismissed the duties of the bankruptcy manager? Allow just a few 2011 quotes from the daily press: "Radulovic, bruko, how many million did you steal? “ 31. ” — 31. 05. 2011 ‘Kurir — Catched by a bankruptcy phantom’ – 27. 04. 2011 "Radulovic takes money from the victims of fraud", "Radulovic ate sugars", "Police combing the king of bankruptcy" – 14. 04. 2011 "Saša Radulović – the bankruptcy manager in 14 companies received two million and 100,000 dinars a month." Dear citizens, Radulovic has declared himself a fighter against the Burzer and godfather's policies. I ask the Ministry of State Administration is it true, and I claim it is true that Kljajic Ivan and his wife, Kljajic Oliver, Petronijevic Milenka, the godmother Kljajic Ivan, Petronijevic Dragan, the wife of Petronijevic Milenko, Babić Sreka and his wife Babić Dragan? Well, that's how he fights the Bursar policies. Radulovic, as a bankruptcy manager, received 495 monthly fees, using a simple calculation, we reach a figure of 50 million dinars, which political luftiguz Kradulovic put in his pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12933	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12934	Thank you. Dear President, I would like to ask the first question to the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is about the assets of previous cooperatives that have gone into bankruptcy, will this property have the opportunity to translate, i.e. to transfer to newly formed cooperatives that will continue the extensiveness of the work of these cooperatives, because we are witnessing that cooperative is the needs and obligations of all of us, to help agriculture, to bring people together and thus ensure that all young agricultural producers and others are more able to carry out agricultural production? The second question, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, since we know that during the previous period, we have had catastrophic privatisations since 2000, and here these were tycoon privatisations where the tycoons destroyed the entire workforce throughout Serbia, with a special emphasis on southeastern Serbia. I would ask whether they would have the opportunity, since we have the decisions of the Court of Commerce, to provide funds for all those workers who lost their jobs, such as. The municipality of Svrljig, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka and the town of Nis, where many of our workers received judicial solutions that should be charged, and we also have a deal from the competent, competent Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Social Protection with the city of Nis, to pay these people off? Will this be paid both in Nis and in southeastern Serbia, because there are a large number of workers who have their own claims and I expect that this will be paid to them in the next year, 2017? Another question that counts for all of us. Yesterday there was a cabinet session where a decision was made to form a body that will monitor the birth of Serbia, where our prime minister of the government is the president of the body, where the minister of the ministry is responsible for these matters his deputy. I'd like to ask you, what will be the direction of the ministry? I can say an example of good practice, the Municipality of Srljig, where we as the United Peasant Party have been potential to make a decision and the decision has been made in the budget, to separate 250,000 dinars for each newly created marriage community, to provide a job through self-employment in co-operation with the National Employment Service, and for rural areas to allocate 350,000 dinars, and that every couple forming a marriage community can be paid, that the municipality helps him through the National Employment Service to form a landhold and that he pays his own agricultural pension through that land, and that he can open up some of his work activities, one of his business and in the village, where he will have the obligation to pay his own employment for the next two years. I think it is an example of good practice, because we really need to give a great priority to southeast Serbia. Once again thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by our prime minister, because this is the right thing to do and to help southeastern Serbia through a policy that will develop, to leave young people, to put an emphasis on newborn children and newly created marriage communities, once again as a man from the area, from Svrlig, I will fully support all the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the head of our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12935	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12936	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I will take this opportunity to ask first Minister Stefanovic about the persecution of people in Topola, the committee group "New People-Better Topola". Namely, yesterday one of the members and committee members of the SO Topola were attacked, beaten and that, unfortunately, was not the first time. In the municipality of Topola, terror has been carried out over every opposition action for a long time, and this has yesterday been given a new form of physical violence by attacking a councilman. I expect a 15-day response from Minister Stefanovic, who is being taken by the police and as far as the investigation is concerned, and is this only one of the examples that awaits us in the future, or is this state going to do something to stop the persecution of political opponents? The next question is about the state of justice and so on. the fight against crime and corruption. Here I ask the question to the Prime Minister and Minister Kuburovic, what the state will do to prevent it from happening again, as we could from the media the other day, that a person with the exotic name Mali Ugar, accused of murder, in fact for several murders, after two years of escape finally brought to justice a year ago, and then released to defend himself from freedom, because, as the court spokesman explains, that the court is always seeking to replace the weight of that easier legal measure, so that it finds it appropriate for the defendant to be charged with the most serious crimes, for murder, with a fat record, because some murders have already been committed to that person and proven, to be released. Should the citizens of Serbia be concerned that such persons are walking free between us and that the state will do something to stop this, to settle the situation in the judiciary, and not to repeat ourselves from the case in case we have against everyone, to say, the favorite criminals of Aleksandr Vukic, the statute of limitations, and that Serbia is once again a safe house for numerous criminals who come here today and are free to walk, but unfortunately, and continue to deal with crime, so we have an increasing number of the most serious crimes and the increasing threat of citizens? These things, I think, require an answer from the state. The state's response certainly cannot be actions like, say, the "Slicer" action. It is interesting, because a year ago in a major action, as the police minister explained at the time, he appeared on TV almost continuously for 48 hours on all possible media, and did what he today said was not the job of the police minister, to conduct investigations, and then he went out and explained to the Serbian citizens that 80 people who are guilty of not knowing how many different crimes and how much material damage they have done to the state. Today, one year right after that, not one single indictment against 80 people has been filed, not one single one. I ask the question is it a fight against crime and corruption? What citizens can expect if we have on one side a spectacular so-called. The arrests and the fight against crime and corruption that have no epilogue in the court, and on the other hand, that the accused who are being prosecuted before the courts for the most serious crimes are allowed to defend themselves from freedom? What are the citizens supposed to expect? I would take this opportunity in the end to ask the police minister if, since he said the police were still in charge of a pre-criminal procedure, did the police hear as citizens of Mr. Alexander Vukic, the Prime Minister, who said on June 8th that they were responsible individuals from the top of the city government for the demolition in Savamala? So, it's been more than seven months since that moment, and is he heard say which individuals are from the top of the city government that organized the collapse in Savamala? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12937	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12938	Thank you, Chairman. The first question is for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. In fact, yesterday, when we were finishing the session, we heard from her that tomorrow at 14.00 p.m., the first parliamentary questions started, so the amendments, here is the minutes, here is the stenogram from yesterday's session, which is in practice with the work of the National Assembly, because every time it was a voting day, it did not allow parliamentary questions. We ask the question, how has she now deviated from the application of the Rules of Procedure, and now that just before the vote at a session that was not announced, and in practice so far, there are no questions to be asked, we have questions to ask? The second question was addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Namely, as we saw yesterday, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has dropped the process of Mladjan Dinkic, so we ask the question – who is protecting Mladjan Dinkic? Who needs Mladjan Dinkic? Why is Mladjan Dinkic so strong in Serbia? What does Mladjan Dinkic have to do with Aleksandra Vukic, when it cannot be processed? Alexander Vukic himself is in the National Assembly wearing the prison suit of Mladjan Dinkic calling him the greatest thief. Mr. Vukic himself mentioned that crime and corruption is the main element, here, a fellow MP has this picture, mentioned that the fight against crime and corruption is the main task of his government, and then we get the Dinkic case. We're getting a case that Mladjan Dinkic can't answer. Then I ask the ruling majority's MPs never to mention the period before their government, because they systematically cover everything that was done before their authorities and take these personnel, so the cashier and chief of cabinet Mladjan Dinkic, Ivica Kotic, who will now head of the cabinet of Aleksandr Vukic. I would like to refer the next question to the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor and the head of the VBA. Since there has been a lot of talk here in the National Assembly about various affairs, spies, etc., I see that it was a hobby of a large number of MPs, and we generally like to talk about such things, I am interested, we have been asking here a question about Momčal Perisic, what about the criminal application that the Security Administration of the then Yugoslav Army submitted after the arrest of Perisic and against Aleksandar Dimitrijevic, the Chief of Security and his closest associates, Gajic Branka, Bilinac Blagoja and Markovic Velisava? This criminal charges have disappeared after the military justice has been shut down, so I'd like to ask the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Ministry of Justice and the VBA to track down that criminal report and let us know what's going on with it. Why was she filed? Here's how co-operation was established between the highest authorities of the state and foreign intelligence services, in this sense American. He mentioned Dimitrijevic with his associates, Deputy General Gajić, Bilinac Blago, Colonel of the Operations Department, Markovic Velisava, Colonel of the Analytical Department and along with some other elders and civilians, from 5 November 1997 to May 1998, made up a platform for contacts with representatives of the US Intelligence Service of the CIA and the Military Intelligence Service DIA and took to the signing of General Staff Chief Momcilo Perisic. Ten meetings were held in Belgrade, on Andre Nikolic Street 21st, following the platform. On the American side were Bradley Knope, head of the office of Director of DIA, Ernest Fishter, US military envoy to SRJ, Shawnfit Patrik, representative of the CIA at the US Embassy in Belgrade, David Roseman from CIA headquarters, Dave Jameson and others. The contacts were kept strictly closed and, among other things, we provided the Americans with information on the organisation-forming structure of the intelligence and security forces of the Yugoslav Army and their work, responsibilities and tasks. So, the entire formation of the Yugoslav Army as a whole, terrorist activity in the premises of the former SFRY, particularly KIM and BiH, the political and security situation on KIM, the measures of state authorities to prevent terrorist actions involving the involvement of the MUP units, the promise that units of the Yugoslav Army will not be used, the situation in Montenegro etc., etc. All 10 meetings were documented by date, time and place of maintenance. The actions described were appointed secret military data and documents announced or handed over to the representatives of the US Intelligence Service, collected data for it and assisted its work, causing serious consequences for the security of the Yugoslav Army in the military power of the country, thereby committing the criminal act of spying under Article 128(5), in connection with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Okay. So, there is direct documentation here and I have this platform, made up of then-Governmental Security Chief Ac Dimitrijevic, and signed by Chief Momcilo Perisic. This was introduced and included by RDB chief Jovica Stanisic at the time. When will the faces that betrayed this country be processed? One more question, for the end, for Alexander Wolfiche...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12939	Your time is up, let's leave for next time. Thank you very much, colleague Nogo. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, Dr. Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12940	I would like to address the issue to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Are there ever more frequent requests from students, teachers and parents to introduce the subject of media and education from primary school? Media and education not as part of existing subjects of civic education or information, but as a special subject. Media literacy has become the subject of a number of debates over the past five or six years and some of the research we have recently been able to see here at the Belgrade Media Centre. Media literacy is often mentioned in the context of European integration, i.e. as a very important factor in democratisation of the development of civil society in Serbia. The world's greatest attention to media literacy is given to Australia, Canada, Great Britain, South Africa, Scandinavian countries, Israel, Russia, and in our closest environment is Montenegro, which has already introduced the subject as an electoral object in high schools. Many researches, as I said, have recently been talking about how important media literacy is for the educational system of every country. So we had a chance a few weeks ago at the Belgrade Media Centre to hear the research done for the region, where the countries of Albania, BiH, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were processed. Of course, there have been some conclusions here in terms of the need for education on this subject, as well as basic factors that could not be removed so that this subject would finally enter, or that media literacy would finally enter as a mandatory subject in education. Another survey that took place in early 2016 on the same topic was one of the most comprehensive research in Serbia for the time being, which was research done in 18 secondary schools. The study was conducted by the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Nis and the “Media and Reform Center” Nis. Namely, 3,700 final class students, graduates and graduates, their parents and teachers were surveyed. The general conclusion is that all three surveyed categories have never met with media literacy programmes. Finally, all advocates of media literacy, from analysts, editors of media houses, teachers, professors of the university, NGOs, or NGOs dealing with this topic, are complex in one way, which is that media education and time should certainly begin to perfect it and adapt it to new conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12941	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go, colleague Milojits.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't plan this question, but here's a question for the chairman - why is there no SNS MP? Not to perform with his toy skills somewhere Tomislav Nikolic in the square, so they went to watch him because we saw in the previous period that he was very prone to these games and that it looks very good, unfortunately for the country of Serbia? That's the first question. The second question seriously, to move on to serious issues, because every day we have either the consequences of harmful SNS decisions or every day the SNS makes, brings or does something that all Serbian citizens, apart from the SNS voters, are ashamed, on this day, unfortunately, a year ago, the "Snacker" action happened, so the DS is asking what's the matter with this action?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12943	Just tell me who, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12944	Police Minister, Mr. Stefanovic. So 80 people were arrested, detained, harassed. These people who have families, their integrity, name and last name have been arrested as if they were the worst criminals, as if they were the worst drug traffickers, such as Zvonko Veseinovic, whom Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic is keeping close to him to resolve his SNS conflicts. They're serious people. Some were presidents of the municipalities, some were ministers, some were serious about their work. They've all been brought up to the stage of a TV camera. Direct transmission went to various programs on the arrest of these people. A year after that, there's not a word about it. These people are frozen property. These people are muddy. These people can't appear anywhere in public, because the SNS unfairly, I say, did, just so that Aleksandar Vukic would raise his rating and that the SNS would present a false fight against false crime and false corruption, instead of dealing with the real fight against crime and corruption and arrest Zvonko Veseinovic, Nikola Petrovic and other criminals first, he arrested, see, miracles, people who were or were still in the DS, to get political revenge. It's all done with recording TV cameras and direct transmissions for New Year's and Christmas holidays. It is a shame and it did not happen in the country of Serbia in 1945. I'm asking a question to the police minister who's all happy that day, spoiling these people and their friends and their families, not just a new year, but by ruining their lives, what's going on with it? What's going on with "Slicer" action? What's going on with 80 people arrested? Why don't they get an acquittal? Why didn't they take action against them? It was only for distracting the people before New Year's and Christmas holidays, so the people wouldn't think about it if it wasn't for New Year's and Christmas dinners, but to watch pink TVs with fake criminals and fake arrests. I'm asking the Minister of Police, what's going on with that? The second question, I ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, is it possible that in 2016, we have a ghettoisation of the Roma population in Krusevec. The Roma settlement "Marco Orolović" in Krusevec is surrounded by a wall of 160 meters and three meters high. There's no fire trail left, no path left to pass an ambulance or a police vehicle, which is not in accordance with the law either. The Democratic Party has been pushing for equality for 27 years regardless of religious, political and national membership. Who gave the building permit? Which one did you pay? Who financed the construction of this shameful facility? Why is the SNS, why are its citizens of the Roma population, citizens of the second order? The Democratic Party strongly opposes the ghettoisation of the Roma population in 2016. Is this perhaps a reminder of the youth of Aleksandr Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, what they did in the 1990s, so they want to do in 2016, which is, of course, unacceptable. The third question, I'm asking the Minister of Defence, but I see that due to the time I won't finish, Mr. Djordjevic, what about paying classes in the Serbian Army? Are those paying classes going to be abolished? Does the minister know that 80% of Serbian Army members earn less than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12945	Thank you, fellow Milojicic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12946	The first question goes to the president of the National Assembly. We just heard from the SNS representative that he calls other MPs a political luftiguse. Well, is it a question for the president of the National Assembly whether it undermines the dignity of the National Assembly? Is that an insult? Why does he allow such a dictionary in the congregation? When it is said that it has turned the Assembly into an executive official, it punishes the MPs, and on the other hand it allows such a speech in the Assembly. This is, of course, forbidden by the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. So MPs are not allowed to address other MPs in this way, to spread unculture in this way, and in fact they speak most of themselves, or to insult other MPs, in such a way they cannot insult them but they insult the dignity of the National Assembly and insult all citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they are given these messages. The second question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, in "New Southwick", was read by an interview of a member or former member of a marketing team of SNS who worked from various premises that are made available by SNS sympathisers from which the systematic mud of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the sake of party interests is being systematically muddled. We had a detailed description of how these teams work, popularly in the people call them bots, how they muddle other people, how they react when they have to cover up crime and corruption regarding anyone in power, detailed scenarios. The question, for the Prime Minister, is this Serbia he believes in, is that what brings us the future with its power, that it muds citizens through organised Botov brigades. A third question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, at a press conference yesterday, as a representative of the government, commented at the government's conference on the application of individual people to, or to announce, a candidacy for the president of the Republic. Sasa Jankovic, the Ombudsman, announced that he would run for president of the Republic, and that is what the Prime Minister has commented on as an abuse of position, i.e. sending political messages from state functions. A question for the Prime Minister, doesn't he see irony in this that he, as Prime Minister, makes political statements that have nothing to do with the work of the government? Commenting on others who are using their right to freedom, it is every citizen's right to run for any political function in the country. Also, will he remind the police minister who made a very similar statement where as police minister, he commented on a Serbian citizen's candidacy for Serbian president in the next election? The same question for Minister Mihajlovic, as she did the same thing. So, practically from the conference to the press conference organised by the Prime Minister constantly muds political opponents, muds everyone who can threaten and eventually threaten and bring him down from power, abuses his function, talks about things that have nothing to do with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He comments on people directly, insults them in the most harsh way possible. He calls them names and then pretends to be the victim in this whole process. It controls the media, uses these bot brigades, or organises them in different places in Serbia that spread mud, mud people, drag them through the tabloids, and thus leads politics in Serbia. Doesn't the Prime Minister see how devastating this is for Serbia? The fourth issue concerns SNS candidate for the presidential elections. The president of the Republic has announced that he will announce whether he is running for a new term by Christmas. It was not ten minutes after the statement, in which the president also said he expects to have SNS support, to talk to the prime minister all the time, or the Prime Minister about it. Ten minutes after the press conference, the prime minister comes out, who says the SNS will decide on a candidate in two to three months. Well, the question is, does the President of the Republic talk to the Prime Minister? Are they consulting and will they, that is, when will the Prime Minister stop harassing Serbian citizens and announce to them what elections we are going to go to and who is the SNS candidate for president?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12947	Thank you. Since as far as I can tell, none of the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, I'm going to give it a break by 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12948	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need to consider the amendments to the agendas of this session as soon as possible and bring them to the vote. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savić, together MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, together MPs of the Democratic Party group, together Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic and MP Sasa Radulović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12949	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, this first law is the draft bill on public sector pay systems and what is the essence of this law and the next three, which we need to discuss, is the shift of the deadline, the deadline for the adoption of other laws that should provide for the implementation of this law specifically, and essentially to lead to a better life for Serbian citizens. Instead of getting an answer as to why this job was not done within the deadline that the government itself has set, almost the same government, in less than the same composition, in February of this year, we have today received a bill on three points that speak of a six-month delay, or a year. Now, in particular, this is the Public Sector Payments Act, which, when it was brought here, Minister Kori Udovicki, of course, praised, since she was the legislator of the law, explaining that the great two-year work was behind it, the count of public administration employees, who would finally introduce order in the public sector. Of course, look at the wonders, of that promise, and it's nothing. The day came when the law should take effect, as foreseen on 1 January 2017, and now the government, almost the same, however, competent minister, in this case the second, comes and says – sorry, we need another year, and not a single word of why it could not be done in these previous 10 months. What problem was that? If two years worked on the law, as said in February of the month, what was the problem with adopting the necessary laws by the end of this year and starting with the application of that, otherwise the bad law? Of course, instead of getting those answers, it continues with the government campaign, with empty stories and promises. The hit, which the minister had, is now on the subject of public sector employees, that the number will be reduced by 5,000 in 2017. This, citizens need to know, does not mean that 5,000 people will work less in the public sector, because the natural outflow of some over 700,000, how much the previous minister, after two years of counting, managed to count in the public sector, over 15,000 people a year, according to it, ceases to be employed. So, instead of 15,000 who will retire, to translate into a common language, 10,000 new ones will be employed in 2017, new exclusively SNS personnel, party people, unfortunately, mostly unable to do their job, and therefore we have increasingly inefficient work of the administration, increasingly inefficient public sector work, increasingly inefficient work of public enterprises, where ignorance, for example, only in "Electroprivred Serbia" costs citizens over a million and a half euros a day, because Serbia must import electricity. Citizens need to know that Serbia is today importing electricity because it cannot dig up enough coal on the Kolubara so that they can operate the thermal power plants at full capacity. That's all the facts. And we, instead of discussing these things about citizens' lives, have this deadline. I wonder if at least in this principle debate we will get from the minister, the minister, whoever is present here, the answer to why the work that the government has taken on itself has not been done, which are the reasons why today we are looking for another year. We have suggested that this member of the law be deleted, that the government face the consequences of its unhappiness, and the best facing will be elections, where I'm sure this government will go back in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12950	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a bill on a public sector wage system. With this amendment, I asked for this member to be deleted. I simply believe that the government and the ruling majority had plenty of time to do all the necessary work to honor these deadlines provided for in this law. This team before we know that this law was passed during this year, 2016 and this may be one of the few situations where one law is changed twice in one year and here you see we are still in 2016, and we are changing and supplementing this law. I simply don't think there was any reason to change and supplement this law, and because the government didn't respect what was meant to be respected, that's her problem above all. Simply, citizens should not suffer because the government has not done its job properly. Now, you see, this may be one of the best indicators that can't even help you bring together about 30 points, as we have a situation at this session, where about 30 points you've combined all together into a single debate to allegedly pass laws as quickly as possible and to waste your business as possible, but we see how you do, one and the same law you change in one year. Even these proposed solutions in this law, I don't think they'll help you, because I think, given the dynamics you respect and how you work, and these laws won't be enough for you, but you'll have to make some more changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12952	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic, the bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12953	Thank you very much. For the sake of the public, who doesn't know, the subject of this law is to move one government obligation in a year, a government obligation nobody imposed, a disgusting IMF, or an enemy World Bank, or an aggressor NATO pact, or a European Commission, or God forbid, no one alive, but the government has tasked itself to settle the pay issue in the public sector. Even the opposition had no such pressures, even then the extra-parliamentary opposition did not have that intention. At some point, the government decided that it would solve this problem and of course, what happened was what happens when it's done so over its knees and in a hurry that there was a knowledge somewhere in early December of this year that the year is 12 months, that December is the last month, that unfortunate 12th, that it is 31 days and that the government will not be able to carry out its self-imposed commitment. I'm using those five minutes too. On the other hand, the open question – do payment classes make sense, does this law make any sense if it does not cover the whole public sector, and that means public enterprises, and that means agencies, and that means public institutions? The second question is, does it make sense that someone can give themselves the right to evaluate millimetres accuracy or the apothecary scale as much as anyone does, so to say the same pay grade, we guarantee that the same salary is because they do the same. That's just impossible. Of course, there should be some starting ground, of course there should be some criteria, some principles, some standards that should ensure that administration, whether it's classical bureaucracy, whether it's an administration or people outside the administration in another part of the public sector, in public enterprises, that they certainly do their jobs, that they don't come to work to pass time, that they don't come to work like one third of them because someone brought them in because they've been putting up good posters or good bots or anything that's been going on since they've been glued to today, or someone's brought them because they're incompetent for any other job, so let's put him in public service, in principle described by Branislav Nusic in their drama "Mrs minister". And it's a very simple situation. Such people, of course, have about in parliament, but it doesn't matter. Their wages, our salaries are less important, above all, because there aren't too many. Paid regulation in the public sector makes sense when the situation comes first to define what the public sector is. Whether it's a show, these, what they call an EPS transmission network that earns, hears, millions and billions, millions in euros, billions in dinars, then honors some fund for treating children with five million dinars, which is usually when you translate into Serbian less than 40,000 euros, and no one tells us where those other money they make I don't know what, by pulling electricity. It's not a question of the Minister. We know, the minister is not guilty, sometimes ministers can be innocent, but it's a question of what the company earns to boast about its big incomes, and then one zero, zero, zero, one change of that with a TV camera for a little direct transmission or an emergency press conference to hand over some fund and show its humanity. We have many other examples of whether in the administration all people do the same no matter how much they sit at work and what their job is called. From my experience, I can tell you that one third works, one third doesn't work, and one third bothers you. And it's not since yesterday, and it's not from here the government advanced and some other governments, and some other regimes have had such an administration, but this is definitely the worst. Don't sit here in the administration to recognize yourself in that. I hope you don't think of yourself that way, but I'm thinking of those other people who bother you too to do your job. There's a lot of examples of what's been going on. In November 2000, the city of Nis had 813 people in its administration and did not grow by these 12 years until today. Today there are 2,300 people in his administration. The government of Serbia's bureaucracy or the Serbian government numbered about 28,000 people in March 2003. Today it's 76,000 people. The natural increase was to add the number of people who were at the Ministry of Defence back then in 2003, not the military, but the officials, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Customs, because they were then the competences of the state union, not the Republic of Serbia. So the real increase is five, six thousand, essentially the increase is almost three times. It's a reality. That's why you don't have to get into any pay balances, the flattener, until you get rid of the essence. It was a question, and not just a question, but definitely said that red tape should be reduced in both public and local enterprises, and in local self-government and the province administration and in the republic by 70,000 people. The other day we hear the minister that it's been given out of control and that it should only be reduced by five thousand, and you know where, in health care and education. Well, if someone doesn't know what you're doing, at first sight sees you're not doing well. It's a poor country where you reduce people in education. It's a sad country where you reduce people in health care. You have not abolished any agency, and you want to destroy such a fragile education and so fragile the health of this nation. In the following amendments, I will read the explanation of why I have submitted the amendment "delegated" at all points of the agenda and all the members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12954	Thank you. Since the proposings Dejan Sukic and Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12955	Thank you. Government members, respected colleagues, are talking about amending the law governing a public sector wage system where they are the founders of an autonomous province and local self-government, and of course other structures when it comes to organisations established by the Republic of Serbia and security structures, etc. As a reason why an extension of the deadline is required, it is impossible to pass the law that is prescribed within this time limit. There is no reason why and who is responsible for why this deadline has to be extended. Someone said in a principle debate by a proposing representative that it is better to extend the deadline than to pass a bad law. I agree, but it is better to choose a good team that will meet the legal obligation as soon as possible and, in the extreme case, the need for citizens. The question arises, is there anything done on this law? It would be good to have something to say about this law about amending and supplementing the law, to say – this team has worked, done so much work, was missing, there are several unknowns that at this point could not be solved, and perhaps it could already be understood. Then, was there an essential debate? When I say fundamentally, I mean a free debate involving employee representatives and, of course, local self-government and autonomous provinces. As far as the normative work of this Assembly is concerned, and therefore the government that is sending us proposals, I would characterise or define two methods by which we had normative interventions. It's the so-called method. the exception and method of so-called An extension. We had several laws exempting the application of certain provisions and acquired and guaranteed rights and the law and the general collective agreement of 2017, and by applying the method of extension, as is the case with this law now, the Government is practically seeking an additional deadline for fulfilling the legal obligation. The real reasons I think are political. This law was passed at the beginning of 2016 and was then estimated to have been completed by the end of 2016, i.e. by 1 January 2017. I suppose it has been well assessed, but we know that in 2016 we had extraordinary parliamentary elections, we know that the Assembly began to consider legislative proposals only in September of the month. So these are certainly not the reasons that could be burdened by the people who worked to prepare this law. Also, this law on amendments and amendments to the law is passed on pre-election occasions and I believe that the fate of meeting these deadlines will also be with the law that is changing. Also, one of the reasons why the deadline is extended is that, if it is true that most of the law is prepared, the public of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the employees to whom this law applies, should not see the light of day before the upcoming election of presidential and perhaps extraordinary parliamentary ones. So this is a bad practice, Madam Minister. We conducted one controversy in September of the month, when it came to amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, so we also talked about the local, in a way indirect, and of the province's state administration. When we talk about meeting the needs of citizens, well, I guess we also think about government employees, and the autonomous province, and local self-government, and the bodies and organisations that they founded. I guess those citizens who are employed in certain jobs, too, have certain duties and, on the other hand, have certain rights. In this way I think it's hiding the real state of things in the administration, both the state, the province and the local administrations, where the number might be hidden. Tendences, especially tendencies, are important to know, quality of education and of course quality, i.e. knowledge and skills of employees. You, Minister, are probably as clear as anyone, and perhaps the most effective state administration, local self-government, an autonomous province is important for the progress of society. With such measures, I think neither the government nor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia contribute. Not only does the quality of the work be brought down, when you pass a law prohibiting employment in 2017, you send a message to those employees who have neither calling nor knowledge of doing these jobs that they are safe in 2017 and that their ignorance will not be able to check, that they will not have competition in young people who are more capable and qualified to do these jobs. As for the consequences, so uncertainty, in this way, relating to government employees, local self-government, the province and all the organisations they have established, is also one consequence and, of course, contributes to maintaining the existing situation. How do we do that? By ban, exception and delay. We have a ban on employment in 2017 and on one side we say that we cannot enable employment, no matter what the need exists, because it would endanger macroeconomic stability. If you consider, Madam Minister, about 400 assistants of the president of the municipalities and mayors, which is a possibility by law and, on the other hand, over 8,000 council members and members of the council, who have different levels of jurisdiction, which is an alternative by law... So the possibility that is increasingly consummating is being allocated from the budget, which is about 20m euros per year to you. On the other hand, we're sending a message that it's not possible to take young experts into the state, province and local administration. The system of exceptions, yes, we had already at the previous session that we excluded in 2017 employees from the award and, of course, from receiving certain which were guaranteed, some by law and some by collective agreements. As for delays, the adoption of this law also represents a delay and supports uncertainty when it comes to the position of employees in the state administration. That is why I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should respect the deadline to pass the law by 31 December 2016, if it is true that most of the work has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12956	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12957	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'm talking about the Law of Salaries. Practically, this law recognizes the government's failure to do a job in the past year and to move the deadlines. That's practically all this law provides. Otherwise, the pay law itself is deeply wrong. The way the savings were achieved in the public sector is deeply wrong and this is destroying the public sector. The bottom line is the next one. In order to keep its party personnel in the public sector, the burden of paying for them is falling on everyone else in the public sector. I'll give you an example. Imagine he's doing 100 people somewhere and he's really doing this job, say, some home of health, and then you put in another 10 party staffs that don't do anything, and that's mostly administrative jobs where they get very good pay. In order to finance that 10% higher, all should be reduced by 10% in order to respect the budget and maintain macroeconomic stability. So this is how the deficit is reduced, and this is how order is being introduced into the public sector under quotes. What do you need to do? Simply, the systematization of jobs, the performance criteria, should be recorded, i.e. Introduce some elemental order, so let's see who works where he works, what jobs and then the introduction of order into any part of the public sector is quite simple. So the deep wrong way to reduce the deficit, the deep wrong way to do anything in the state. One single goal is to preserve party personnel with acquired diplomats in the public sector. The price is paid by teachers, doctors and nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12958	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12959	DS MPs have also submitted an amendment to this article. Clearly, my predecessors spoke of the essence of this law. The essence of this bill is to move the deadline and simply postpone something announced as an important reform in our society. In this regard, we can agree that important steps should be taken, especially in the public sector, and here we are talking about people who make a big contribution to our country. What is the essence and what is visible in the proposal for this law is that it shows and opens one question – was the government even ready for this step, since it could predict that a certain period would be needed to execute? She gave us that proposal. We believed in those deadlines, in this preparedness, and here most of them passed that law. Now it appears with the proposal – see, we haven't been able to do for this period we promised you, give us a new period of one year. What's that supposed to mean? It can mean that there is no real political readiness and political capacity to accept what is promised, which are reforms in society, although it has an absolute majority. I really think that, in that sense, counting the votes, the government can vote any law. So he's got political capacity. Then what could be landing? It is a question of the capacity of institutions to implement the proposed law, and then we have discussed with you, Madam Minister, the way in which some other legal projects face problems in local self-governments, and then the question is – are we facing these same challenges in the ministries themselves, and in the institutions that need to implement these laws? Who is responsible again for the capacities of institutions that are slowly collapsing and which clearly show an insufficient level of efficiency in all of this? So both problems are a huge problem for all of us and for the whole of our country. What characterizes the temporary nature of each solution is the beginning and end of that solution. Obviously, I can really read from a set of these draft laws, all of this is being made for election preparations, upcoming elections, not only presidential, but possibly parliamentary, and that they are avoiding, conditionally speaking, difficult moves, moves that will essentially reform the state and that will eventually hit one good part of the people, and that is not desirable in the election year. Then we ask ourselves, where do we take the state by having three years in a row practically parliamentary elections, and that year by year we make solutions that delay some essential solutions, which means that there are no solutions and the question is, what are we going to do next year, if we promise to do this or that in two years, and then there are no essential solutions? We have these examples of temporary solutions. It's a temporary reduction in wages and pensions. The same temporary solution for pensioners, for employees in the public sector, and then we make this bill of law, to see that this is no longer a temporary solution, but to grow into a permanent one, we re-declarate some temporary solution and announce the very reform of the pay grade in the public sector. We also mentioned the area of security, we mentioned the military and other sectors, and that's what really concerns all of us. I think that often mentioned, and we just heard, the area of health and education, that we simply have a big problem of discontinuity in finding and giving opportunities to those most talented especially in the field of health, where it takes ten years to get specialists to maintain this nation's health system and, of course, education, which we most often talked about here. I expect an answer from you authorised ministers. There has been no answer to any remarks my fellow MPs have made so far. I think it is important to hear your opinion on it – is there really a fundamental willingness to enter reform processes, or are we constantly at that point of view to delay these processes from year to year, and we have had the opportunity to see it in the last three, four years?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12960	Thank you. Here you go. Ambassador Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12961	Thank you. Just that this sports society - get out and don't bother me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the amendment should be rejected for two reasons. Among other things, the amendment was proposed by two economic gromadas, Rodney and my fellow farmer. The first one spoke of a party, although he founded a party in the middle of the ministry, and the founders were his closest associates, so when he spoke of a partocrat, it was too touching for me. The second one said it was a little small five million dinars. For him, it may be a small matter because a man is used to taking from a country for one vineyard, quite a small one for one afternoon 62.5 million dinars, and that is two key reasons why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12962	Thank you. Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12963	Thank you. counterpart Ana Brnabić will have a lot of opportunities to comment on all these amendments that are about the same – it is deleted, so I will make only two comments on the discussions of the predecessors, which are related to my sector. First of all, when the "Electro Networks of Serbia" is at stake, it is one of the best companies that have paid around 197m euros in the past four years on various grounds – dividends, taxes, contributions. The public company, i.e. the "Electro Network of Serbia" Action Society, has done extremely well this year. It paid its dividends to Serbia's budget, five million dinars paid for treating sick children are just one of, let's say, signs or signals that this is a socially responsible company, and I think it should be welcomed, not thrown out of any irony. When it comes to "Electroprived Serbia", the EPS provides the necessary amount of electricity for Serbian citizens. My colleague Djurisic knows that very well. There is one huge number of days a year in which EPS exports electricity, there is one number of days when it imports. What is crucial is that the net effect this year is plus 55m euros, which is 85% above the plan and is one of the better years. This year, electricity production is 1.4% over the plan and 2.47% over the performance in 2015. We've got enough coal. At this point in the dumps, we have a million and 550,000 tons of coal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12964	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12965	The only problem we have, colleague Đurisic, is the extremely low level of Danube and Gerdap we're not comfortable with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12966	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. He said Djurishic, twice. Not at that very low level of the Danube. What he said your name, it's something nice. There's nothing offensive in your name. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go. Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12967	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping God to help everyone. I would like to point out the idea of this amendment to the Serbian Movement Dveri, which, of course, is trying to correct certain shortcomings that are constantly in our state system caused by current power. The first problem is why isn't there a law on making payments in the state administration, but now you have to extend the deadline when you're going to bring this law in the first place and correct what you're unable to do in time? So even five years of SNS authorities weren't enough to arrange not only payment classes, but this public sector pay system at all. I don't know if it takes you how many years or decades to start sorting things out. However, for some of this, the Prime Minister said in the National Assembly that he cannot do it or cannot do it, which continues to say that educational workers as the most educated population in this country have below-average salaries compared to the average salary in Serbia. Now you say again you'll do something in the next six months. But we've listened to your pre-election promises that nothing ever happened. We ask you something else – will you do what we propose to you here, which is an analysis of public sector employees? How much is party employment? How many employees are in Telecom, EPS, the state administration, in local self-government? Only when the analysis is done can a wage system be arranged in Serbia. While there is no analysis, it is clear that you want to keep the party's parasitic system and continue to employ advances under temporary and occasional contracts despite the ban on employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12968	Thank you. The word is Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12969	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I think it's very important to underline a few more things. First of all, the Public Sector Payments Act was passed. This is where the adoption of two acts is delayed. One refers to wages that are on the local level, and the other to public services. That's the first thing. So, the Public Sector Payments Act exists. The second thing, which is very important, is completely over, if you were there during the debate in principle and we talked about this, December 7th public debate regarding the Law on Local Payments. Union representatives asked for another meeting to be held and that is why this deadline is being extended. I think it's very important that the appeal of the union is respected, and I think the parties of the social democratic orientation will understand why we have made this step in this part. As far as the Public Service Payments Act is concerned, the job has also been much started and I can only inform you that in the previous period, since the rationalisation of local jobs started, seven and a half thousand jobs have been shut down at the local level. I think it's very important to say for one simple reason, so there's no substitute for thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12970	Thank you. Ambassador Radulovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12971	That's right. Because of the citizens of Serbia, in order not to replace the thesis, there is a bad wage law. That bad law is just rolling away now. The deadlines are being extended, and nothing is essentially working, because if something had essentially been done would have been explained by this law, so we would know in the public sector where people work, so we could do some analysis, there would have been some systematization of jobs, there would be something. Like this, we don't have any of that. All we have is a story about how it's going to be four and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12972	He has the word Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12973	It's nice to hear from Minister Nedimovic, that the public debate on the local wage system is over and that the public debate on public service wages has started. One logical and justified question arises, to your conclusion that the number of employees in the public sector and in the local sector is reduced by seven and a half thousand, and Minister Brnabic presented the information that about 33,000 people are doing less in the state sector, that we finally get the exact data as to how many people are employed in the public sector as a whole, how many people are working in local self-government, how many people are working in the state administration, that we can even monitor and give value assessments whether what you are saying is true, since there are data from seven, eight or ten years ago, there are data from three years ago, to see exactly how many people are working in the state administration, in the public sector complete and at the level of local self-government. I am sure that Minister Brnabic knows these data and would be of great importance to give us exactly how many people are employed in the state administration of Serbia, as I read yesterday, a meeting of the task force to determine the maximum number of employees in the entire public sector, where it is said that by the end of 2017, an accurate plan will be made for how many people can work in what part of the public sector, based on analysis. There is now one logical question – and why was that advice put in place yesterday and what was done, if not more than that, and at least since you were Minister, the last five months? Is it possible that in five months we couldn't do any analysis and that at least we had indicative data on how many people work in certain parts of the public sector and how many people, according to some standards, should be employed in some part of the public sector? You have also stated that the largest number of people will be out of work in the field of education, health care, social services and local self-government. You didn't mention there was any surplus in the state administration. Is it possible, Madam Minister, that you didn't notice in your ministry, in other Ministries of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that there are extra employees? How is it possible that there are always extra employees in local self-government and in some other sectors, but there are never extras in the state administration, in the ministries? Wherever you go, in any ministry, you are guaranteed with every minister, assistant, deputy, secretary of state, advisor, at least one to two secretaries. How is it possible there's no surplus and there's a surplus in local self-government? How is it possible that there is excess in education, in health care, and we are witnessing huge ranks in every health care facility? Every year from the state sector, from the staff of doctors, thousands of people go abroad, and yet we're talking about a surplus in health care. Who's gonna treat those people? What message do we send to young people if we tell them that despite the obvious order and the obvious fact that our health care has gone down, that you obviously have to spend the whole day waiting for a doctor's appointment, when people leave that service abroad, you say there's still a surplus, then what young people who finish colleges can expect? What's the message to them? Don't even count on you ever getting a job in public health. I think it's very important that you tell us exactly how many people work in the state administration and how much extra, how many people you've reduced, so we can just follow your work, know if this government is really rational, whether it's taking care of state costs, whether it's reduced the number of people, or maybe it's previously employed its party staff, and based on the natural outflow, it's about reducing the number of employees?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12974	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12975	Thank you. I'm glad to hear what the government used to look like, with all those secretaries and surpluses. It's not the state administration I entered, and it's not the state I found, but well, I'm sure it used to be, and I've heard all those stories, too. It's been done a lot here and, of course, everyone knows it. It's a matter of political struggle whether everyone wants to admit it or not, but it's finally the first government, the previous government of Prime Minister Vukic, who counted the civil servants, which I don't think anyone's counted yet, but it's also the subject of ridicule now -- did you count them, well, we counted 478,683. In the last two years this number has been reduced by 23,600 people, which in the locale, which in the state administration, is much more in the state administration than in the locale, while we're at it. As regards the PPP contract, therefore, on employees on a fixed and undefined basis, the Commission has granted a total of 8146 people and 453 to certain persons as of December 2014. In addition, in the last five months we have completed all functional analysis of the ministries, both horizontal and vertical analyses of 94 institutions, which are now working on action plans for internal reorganisation within the framework of health, social and education, and I will talk further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12976	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12977	The government's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12978	Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12979	I said -- the government's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12980	Thank you very much. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12981	Thank you. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law before us, I hope it is quite clear to the citizens of Serbia, because because of them we are having this debate, is that the government has passed the Law of Salaries, that it has committed itself before us to bring other regulations, one relating to wages in local self-government, the other in public services, and that the Government has failed to meet and therefore says – give us another year. I say, "Here's another two months." The government in the explanation says that what it proposes – another year, has been defined as more realistic and more complete. If December 7th is over one law, if you're done, why is it more realistic than two months? Why am I putting up with a amendment like this? Because this paradigm is how we want to change and manage, and we can't measure. You know what that looks like? It's like you're coming over to the Schneider's and saying, "Look, nice Shanghai, light blue, can you make me a costume?" She says, "I can, of course, measure you." I don't need it, but it's supposed to look good on me. That's how we do everything, and that's why it's important to talk about it. We didn't know when we were bringing the salary, the Law of Salaries, on which we measured that we were sick of December 31st, and now we know why we think we're sick of December 31st, 2017. I'm telling you -- here's two months, make yourself measure everything you need for these two months. There are different kinds of choices going on, so let's get ourselves together and finish our work by March 1st, 2017. As we measure, and I know about the 478 thousand data, as well as the various mixing of data on the number, but here, we can't find out if Mr. Misa Vacic is employed in the Office of Director Mark Đurić or not, for four days we can't find out. No, the Messengers of the people have earned it. Now, that's what I'm telling you, nobody wants to measure, everybody wants to make a dress. It's no use.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12982	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12983	I have proposed in this amendment that the law applies not only to members who are employed, to employees in the state administration, but also to those who are employed in companies founded by the Republic of Serbia, as well as to employees in public media services. Why did I suggest that? Those employed by the Serbian government and the Republic of Serbia, as well as in public media services, are equally dependent on the budget, as are all those covered by this law. Namely, if any of these institutions have a financial problem, the problem is solved by the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, if the public service gets into trouble and there's a huge loss, where do you replace that loss? From the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So the same reason we put the whole public sector, so the whole state administration and under the supervision of one law, and we try to sort of systemize jobs, to create a job catalogue to control the level of pay. For the same reason, we have to do the same thing in public enterprises, because the losses that occur there are far greater than those incurred by the state administration and local self-government. It can be the same with public media services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12984	Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd Amendment in the same text was brought together by Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, together MPs of the DS, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović. So these are all the promoters. Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12985	And Article 2. The draft law also amends the deadline set out in Article 40. The law. Let me continue the debate because it's all the same subject. I think the central issue of these changes is that funds from abroad fund a whole series of changes in our government. So we can say that from abroad funded reform. Some institutions have given money to transform us, reform us. In 2006, the first reform was carried out by Balinovac and Mladjan Dinkic, on June 6, 2006. Yeah, what do you want me to do? They were the first to count the civil servants, introduce new names, then we got the tenant, the one that was set up to work for small money. Now, the first part of this reform was completed in 2015, these are the rules on public sector employees. When we got to the pay, it started, there was NAED. Here, NAZED what he says – NAD said in his report, praises the government of the Republic of Serbia that on February 29, 2016, she passed the Law on the system of salaries of public sector employees, then praises, praises, praises. They welcome, and they also report on progress, as well as those from the EU, and they praise Serbia, it has progressed in reforms, as it stands. They can do it from the one who's authorized to go free and what he says. NAED tells us this way — Article 37, paragraph 1. The law stipulates that within six months of the law-making day, the government will prescribe jobs in the government's jurisdiction, after which an official general catalogue of jobs will be published. And our problem is that general catalog. Who's responsible for the general catalogue? Government and Ministry of Local Administration and State Administration. They've hooked up on their site, the second round of consultations, agreements, etc., etc., now, don't call the entire government, we have to call the Ministry who didn't finish his job, if we go through this approach to what it says in the law. But as this law is well written, I'm just going to remind you that we are practically discussing amendments and additions to the law that requires the law to be passed. That's an amazing thing. It's rare cases, it turns out this is a fundamental law, and these others are like, special laws that come a little out of the Constitution, a little bit out of this fundamental law. Now, watch out what's going on here. The Government as a Proposer, to us, the Assembly, gives the text where we by law say we will pass another law. You know, there's something wrong with that. Not something, it's all wrong. We've come into this situation and now you can draw different conclusions about what the background is, what this is, what that is. The background is money for the reform that came from abroad. They're spent. And they came in 2006 and 2009, and you see that we're constantly, little, little bit, ratifying some agreement with the Development Bank, the Bank of the Council of Europe, for transformation, for this, what, for improvement, for good administration, for good administration, for this, for that. There, that's our problem. Now to go back to what's the central problem. It's that from one of the wrong concepts of the 2006 law, we go into an even worse concept, and if I'm listening now to these people who were in the bar until about a month, two, three, who had personal experience with that pay problem, I see that you're all moving in the same system, and that system does not guarantee either efficiency, nor is it a cheap system, nor is it a fast application system. It's a simple stretching of something that can bring very harmful consequences. We have proposed these amendments, we have asked for these two members to be deleted, to warn, because these transformations, these reforms that are being financed, that are being implemented here and that have super-visions in the form of an American firm that keeps our website here, so NAED, and some other commissions, etc. Well, that's our disaster. They're all fitting in, and here you have seen, now NAED has sent that we have a minister to iron out, as Antic would say. To iron that out, to get out of that situation. I don't blame the government, I blame only the government for having to succumb to these pressures. Did it come to this point that we need money from abroad to write a program on how to transform something and write three, four, five laws or seven, eight sublegal acts? Well, in Serbia, there are people who know how to write it. You'll see in the follow-up to this agenda, we have two or three laws with bad translations. You have those laws that no one can understand when they read, the Capital Market Act, who can understand that. They can't even understand what they're doing in the Securities Commission. Bad suggestion. Now that's our big problem. And we don't have that clarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12986	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12987	When this Law on the Payments System was passed in the public sector, we pointed to failures in that law and we have been proposing amendments and additions to that law for some time now. Of course, the parliamentary majority did not adopt this and there are no amendments in this bill that came from the government. These are the changes that speak of the different definition of the public sector, i.e. to include employees in public enterprises whose founder is the Government, AP, local self-government, and to change those provisions that reduce employee rights. None of it's in this government proposal. The only thing the government has changed is that in the transitional and final terms of the deadline itself, I repeat, when the law has been passed, it now extends over time that is more than twice the time it set itself in February of this year, without even one word of explanation why it has not been done and why it takes so much time, so much more than the first proposal. Maybe the point is why we're putting this off in the next one. I, in effect, have now read here the presentation of the previous minister, who explained this law in February. She said, among other things, that this law regulates the retention of the established salary, with the determination of the method of gradual alignment of earnings found at the height of the future salary according to the new system, of course in accordance with the budget, and this is due to begin in 2017. As he says, this law will allow when laws are passed and employees are rewarded and their work evaluated. And it's all gone! It's all delayed for another year. This shows the right picture of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia. No reforms are essential. We pass laws that don't apply, because they're either misspelled, or they mean the adoption of some sublegal documents or other laws that aren't passed in a certain period. The best picture of it is these sessions at the end of every calendar year. Then we have a bunch of laws that move deadlines. Then it all comes together as now in one debate, where you simply can't point out all the bad things the government hasn't done in the past year, and despite all the big promises, big words, big fights for reform, to improve public administration, and fake images of allegedly reducing the number of employees. I asked the question, and I didn't get an answer in the budget debate. You are talking about reducing the number of employees, and the salaries have been reduced, so how is it possible for the 2017 budget to deprive 20 billion dinars more of employees' salaries than it was in the 2012 budget? At that time, 202 billion were planned for employees in the 2012 budget, and now projected 20 billion more, 222 billion. How is it possible with a smaller number of employees and reduced salaries that we have 10% more in the budget for employees' salaries? That's not what I got the answer to. You mentioned it, i.e. The minister then corresponded to me in comparison to 2014. I'm asking from 2012, is there continuity there? You take a point in time that suits you in these five years and then you measure on it, and the citizens should know and measure you according to what you've been doing for the last four and a half years, and that's bad for the citizens of Serbia. I'm sure these choices will change that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12988	The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12989	I said in my first statement what was essentially wrong with this law, but it's no good either methodologically, which is that the law is again imposed on us, like the rest of us, like a coward's egg, the night before the session, without being able to be read seriously, let alone react in a better way. That is why I have given the following reasons to all amendments that read "expunge", and that is the only means of hygiene against this manner of communication with parliament. By misusing the draft law procedure, without the possibility of MPs getting acquainted with the proposed text, which is the only way to conduct a competent debate on the proposals, the current regime seriously undermines all the principles of parliamentaryism. In this way, apart from the still fragile democratic principles of parliamentary life being annulled, any possibility of providing Serbia with a prosperous future that is only possible with respect to the Constitution, law and democratic principles of modern civilization is being destroyed. The laws passed by this procedure do not do any good to our country and citizens. You have an obvious case - the hand-deposit law. What's the point of this law? Who's to blame for delaying those deadlines? Is it the opposition? Is it Sasa Jankovic? Is it flooding? Did a Russian plane crash, God forbid? No, it's your fault. Who's to blame? There is an objective responsibility, which is that it is always the one who is at the head of an institution, and in this case it is the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12990	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12991	The esteemed chairman, respected Members of Parliament, in order not to repeat the figures relating to the number of people who have been fired in the context of the rationalisation of the local sector, I will only say one thing, the only hygienicly correct means of combating the accumulated state apparatus, which has resulted in 15, 20 and 30 years, is precisely what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, which is to get into the process, to fight this and ultimately try to put this state in the context of state administration on sustainable legs. You know that, because you were a part of it, you know how it works, and you know that over the night there's a multiple increase in the number of officials. I have participated in this process for many years, and I know how painful these processes are. In 2009, there was one attempt at rationalization, I was mayor of one city at the time, 45 people were fired at the time, and we sat down in frames, but then they didn't all do it. There was no sanction for anyone at the time. In the end, it turns out that a few of us, who wanted to transform that sector, wanted to make results, turned out to be nothing. I think the measure and determination to fight this decade's problem must once yield results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12992	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12993	Thank you. None of these decades of effort, unfortunately, because there are only stories, and in practice absolutely none of it. Serbian citizens know that the parties in power have turned into employment bureaus, that there is no other way to get a job in the public sector, except through parties. This law shows this because no criteria exist for the way we receive people in the public sector. We don't have any analysis that we have in the public sector, that people are leaving, that they're hiring. So when you don't have an analysis, then you're talking in your head. I could say these things by heart, however, we're simply trying to tell you that you have to come out with data, concrete data, to come out with the number of employees across all ministries, by all services in the entire public sector. As the finance minister says, there are about 550,000 people, so once we add about 150 thousand and more in public enterprises, state-owned companies, municipal enterprises, we get to the total number of public sector employees. So there's a tight party parasite, party staff with bought diplomas. That's what costs us. We don't have extra doctors, we don't have extra teachers, we don't have extra nurses, we don't have extra workers and we don't have workers in utility companies who really work in the field, we have extra office party staff who don't do anything, they get paid, and they practically do party jobs for that salary. It is a central problem and the government has no apparent interest in touching the problem that kills Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12994	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Komlenski, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12995	The Honorable Chairman, I will spend some time on the amendment, to point you to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to Article 107 of the previous...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12996	It can't. You have to pick up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12997	I must insist with you that you react in this way that Mr. Zivkovic spoke of the fall of a Russian plane, is such an insolence and insolence at the moment, in such a way that acting is absolutely inappropriate from this home to go such a voice. I can't get myself in line, I'm chilly, I'm sick of being like that anymore. Please apply appropriate measures. This really doesn't make sense. That's the kind of thing you're playing with today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12998	What member did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u12999	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13000	Article 107. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. He can't get hurt by the Rules of Procedure. You heard, please. You heard the MP say he didn't want to, that he wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Don't. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That's what you made him do. No, really, you're not gonna drag me into this game, so we can get out of the discussion and deal with other issues now. What you said, you said. You got a reaction. Please. Watch what's said in this house. No, no problem, we've got all the time you want until New Year's Eve, but we'll talk about it. I don't have time to talk about everything. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13001	Thank you, Madam President. I call for you not to be accepted for any more reason, and feel free to take this as one common response to all these amendments, all the proposings in the same text, whatever this law is about. It's more than one reason. First of all, I conclude that the proposings themselves are not too interested in their amendments. Five minutes later, two minutes later, and every replica that anyone here gets scratched for, you apologize for the expression, you talk about everything and everything. There's no talking about the amendments themselves. If they're not interested in them themselves, then why should we try to adopt anything on the subject? That's the first thing. The other thing, there may have been only one proposal, to be correct to the end, and what does this erasure mean, and what is actually proposed, and because of that one that was very correct, let me say, since it was about the idea that then, by an emergency procedure, some solutions are found and some laws are passed, it's not realistic, and it's in the very explanation of the text of the law. So it's not real. As far as the others are concerned, no answer is offered on what they suggest for God's sake. That's reason number two. Recitals delivered here today will not even comment, we will probably listen to many more during this debate, but at the very end I would like to refer to two arguments signed by the MPs when they handed over these amendments. In one place, one promoter says he seems unable to conduct a competent debate, and another suggests he is unable to make meaningful amendments. If they themselves say that everything that they represent here today is neither meaningful nor competent, I think the answer is imposed alone, not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13002	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13003	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System should be one of the laws introducing order and introducing a fair system of a large number of employees working on similar jobs. However, this law, i.e. amendments and additions that are in the package with all other laws, before the intensification of law enforcement and the introduction of a fair system, can be called laws on which we or, under one, cannot plan, or this government cannot plan, or we can't plan, but we can't realize what we're planning, or maybe worse than that we can but we don't want, there's no political desire. At the end of the year, and this year, and this is just one of the laws, as well as the Law on Public Media Services, as well as two weeks ago when we talked about the budget and the accompanying laws, where the ban on employment, employees was renewed, and then I spoke, and I will remind you of this, just because the finance minister in the replica said something that was completely different from what the minister met today. Appealing not to extend the ban on employment until the end of 2017, making it impossible for all those young people who have studied and worked hard, directed to work somewhere in the public administration, which is being told, such a situation is being ordered to leave the country, to enroll German language courses, if they are doctors, the government tells them there is no room for them. The government's reasoning, this incredible cynicism was – yes, we will ban the employment ban for another year because it has contributed to fiscal consolidation. That message is that fiscal consolidation, that unfair savings they pay, means for your incompetence they pay for the best and the youngest. I think it is terribly cynical, replicating me, Minister Vujovic, understanding the allegations I spoke of, said the ministry is competent, which is your ministry, a respected minister, with detailed analyses late, that they exist only for several ministries. If I'm not mistaken, you said there are for all the ministries, so I'm asking you for an explanation and that's one of the reasons why it's necessary to extend the employment ban, making it impossible for all those young people to find their jobs. On the one hand, dozens of positions in the budget are envisioned contracts on the part which are one of the ways in which party employment can be carried out. I ask you, are there detailed analyses for every sector and every ministry, like you said or not, as the finance minister said? Not only do they not exist, but because of your ministry's objective delay, they will also suffer citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13004	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13005	Thank you. Just a few things first. If there's no reform, only someone who doesn't know what reforms are. If there's no reform in this government, it can only be said by someone who doesn't know what reforms are. As for the downsizing of the number of employees, you are criticising in this debate that we have not reduced enough, and in the budget debate that we do not have system reforms but that we are only reducing and that is the only way we have savings. So it's either this or it's what it was two weeks ago. During 2016, 7.5 billion dinars are less separated for employee costs than in 2015. As far as analysis is concerned, the analyses have been completed somewhere in progress and what is important is to note that the commission continues to work as a control mechanism. So there is employment, when there is a need and that need is explained and then there is employment. As far as health care is concerned, it seems to me that this has been mentioned several times in the Assembly both by the Minister of Education and during the debate on the budget, and what is important to mention about health care, is that we are going to reduce non-medical staff and increase medical staff. So it seems to me that the figures have been answered with a clear answer, and the flat-rate claims – no savings have been made, now more is spent than spent, I don't know, here are the figures, I mean, I can give you those figures so you can check them yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13006	The word has an MP, Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13007	I understand, of course, why these laws defend new ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia because what those who have been in power for five years are saying is why so far none of what they've done to the people so well. Therefore, the SNS, or existing ruling coalition, has two directions of action. First, it does not make any laws it has pre-electionally promised, such as the law on the investigation of the origin of the property of all politicians and tycoons. The other laws they pass, such as these, are those laws that are inapplicable, that is, which you do not arrive at at all because you are incapable of organising yourself and then at the end of the year you bring an extension of the period of application of the law. It's clear that you're actually just postponing the law and I don't see the meaning of the laws you've passed in the meantime at all. There's something more important than that, and that's to see us, Madam Minister, that's your analysis. Can you please provide us with an analysis from October 5, 2000 until today in the state administration. Who's busy? What's the basis of the employee? Which workplace and what especially has happened in the last five years since you've been in power? How is this employed by temporary and occasional contracts? You yourself admitted, nine thousand new employees in the meantime. Are they all members of the SNS? Give us an analysis. Who's busy? Where's the employee? Or, say, Belgrade Airport, from 450 to 1,800 employees. Are they all members of the SNS again? You have heard another question, how it is possible that you have reduced the number of employees and that you have reduced salaries and that you have higher allocations in the salary budget compared to 2012. You want me to explain how it's possible? Since 2012, you have received all SNS members by 2015, and then in 2015 you started reducing other employees in the state administration and leaving employees behind under temporary and occasional contracts. So it's a very simple analysis. You're firing other employees in the state administration and leaving party employees to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13008	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13009	A very interesting discussion of Mr. Ivan Pernar. Because when he talks about government officials, he probably thinks about the state administrations of those who work in Serbia, or in Croatia, I don't know. I'd like that list delivered to the state administration from October 5, 2000 until today. We'll just find the most members of the former regime. Now that you're in power because someone's got a job, you need to take care of what you're gonna do. For Mr. Pernar, government employees are numbers, nothing more. That's not a man. And for bankruptcy managers, the number of employees is not a man, but a number, a pure number, especially those who have not finished any bankruptcy except the liquidation. They're busy with numbers. They don't have a name and a last name, they don't have a family, they don't need to support anyone. We've seen that on both privatisations and bankruptcys that are just numbers. Hundreds of thousands of people in privatisation, tens of thousands of people in bankruptcy. And then they show up here and lead a demagogue that they, for God's sake, take care of their employees and ask where the greater amount of pay comes from. Well, have we recently passed a law to increase the amount of salary for individual employees in the authorities of the state administration? Are pensions increasing? Well, they're getting bigger. But they will always speak demagogue, numbers, numbers. A Serbian citizen, each individual has a name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13010	Thank you. It's replica time. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13011	Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I think that you had to react, Mrs Gojkovic, since I believe that the vice-president, who often holds the chair of the session, knows the names of the MPs and simply does not allow your colleague and colleague, or his colleague, to belittled in any case without you reacting. Also, I believe that you must certainly give him a replica to be disdained by Article 104. He spoke directly to the previous speaker, insulted him, invented his name. I know, and I understand that my colleague Arsic doesn't have knowledge, but I didn't know until now that he didn't have any education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13012	Are we going to vote on the injury? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Nedjo Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13013	I thank you, President. I can understand that I accept the indication that the public sector is, in fact, overly tense as far as the number of employees is concerned. But if we're going to run an analysis of why there are so many employees in the public sector, then that analysis can't be related for just one period of time. Back in five years, in my opinion, a more significant period is a period of 15-16 years, a period of 20, 35, even 40 years. But if we focus the story on the first wave of a large number of public sector employees, that's right after 2000, when there was a destruction of the economy and a huge number of employees who worked in business entities, and that's right after large economic operators, unfortunately they were out of a job. Those who, I may say, lost their jobs were killed in bankruptcy proceedings. Why did you get hurt? Because they were left on the street without a piece of bread, those who had lost their jobs through liquidation procedures and where they could find possible employment, or where to regulate labour law status only in the public sector. Then the public sector began to fill, in my opinion, absolutely disproportionate to what it was meant to be, but in social terms it was the only possible way to save an army of unemployed people from a ruined economy. However, noting that it was partocracies is not true. I read it's a Uzice city that confirms that it's not true. In 2012, when a new coalition, both the SPS and the SNS, was transferred, believed or not, no one, absolutely no one was fired, or no one stopped the working relationship who was from the previous period regardless of which party he came from, whether he has a party's mark or not, whether he has a party's sympathiser or not. This was the situation in Uzic when 62 people who worked in the public sector for up to eight to nine years at a certain time, then, according to the contracts on occasional and temporary jobs, and that time was constantly extended to protect people in a social sense, had certain security, certain security, a new coalition of the SPS and SNS did not allow these people to lose their jobs because they had a party omen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I was personally engaged, and while I was at the Ministry of Justice, that it was realized and realized, that in some social sense the words of the existence of these people and their families would be protected. But is that good, is that rational? It's not good and it's not rational. No, because we are aware that the public sector has too many employees and that it must be rationalised. It is good that the path to rationalising the public sector is now being routed. On the one hand, it is doubtless true that there is some pressure from the IMF and the World Bank. On the other hand, our awareness that the public sector must be rationalized must be raised to a higher level. Our awareness that those who are in the public sector of surplus must go either to the private part of entrepreneurship or to the private sector that involves revitalising the economy, establishing production, or revitalising production, is exactly how to solve this problem. We have a far bigger problem, and I think that the minister of this is aware, that we are the hostages of the Budgetary System Act and the Employment Restriction Regulation in the other direction, and not in this direction that is indicated, that we cannot employ persons, I pointed out the other day when I was saying, that we cannot employ persons who have certain professional references that are necessary and defined by certain legal solutions, certain laws that we have adopted here. I mentioned the Sports Act. I mentioned sports inspectors. The city of Užice cannot hire a sports inspector precisely because of the legislation that is current, which is valid. It's not just Užice, it's 70-80% of local self-government in Serbia. The problem needs to be handled as soon as possible, so that those who are legally obliged to be employed can be employed, because otherwise we have inapplicable laws. Otherwise, we have laws that will never come into force, not ever, but who knows what time. There is a problem, not a problem that is indicated solely for political marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13014	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. ) SNS was mentioned, so I did not give replicas. Ambassador Jovanovic used group time, not replica. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Ali mentioned DS. ) Every time a party is mentioned, it is not an element for replication. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13015	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, I am speaking to Minister Brnabic. So, Madam Minister, it's not everything you say. I was in one session before you talking about some things, or you didn't want to hear me or you didn't have the will to hear me. So the law is the same. The deadline of its duration has changed. That's why it bothers the opposition. When you say the situation is no longer how you found it, I'm telling you, you may not know Madam Minister, 20 days ago at a session in the city of Kralje, a cabinet of mayors was formed seven people part-time employees. You want names? You want parties? There's no need. Check with the King, I'm waiting for you. One more thing. A colleague said - one NAED minister. No, two NAED ministers. Is that why, from what you took our money from the budget, now the city had to pay 250 grand to NAED? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13016	The word has been given by MP Sasa Radulovic, then the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13017	It was very moving to listen to SNS and SPS representatives talk about how there is no party employment and how, for God's sake, it is a thing of the past. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens live in the reality of those in power. Party employment destroys Serbia, so when they wake up from their fairy tales written by either the Andersen brothers or Brother Grim brothers, in this reality that we all live in, there is no way to get a job in the public sector unless it goes through a party. For what the minister said, so whoever really knows nothing about what reforms are, it can say that reforms are being carried out in Serbia. All that is being implemented in Serbia is that the government is dragging its hand into citizens' pockets, businesses and thus reducing the deficit. There's no saving anywhere in the country. So it doesn't all end up at the shooting and the sentences say one thing, the other says the other, give the data, give the analysis, because it's the central thing that we resent. You're talking in your mind. There's no record and you're talking about how it's going to be better, how things are going in the right direction. What we see is that Serbia is going down while you guys are putting your fairy tales to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13018	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Gojkovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13019	By amendment. Therefore, the amendment to Article 2 states that we should delete the basic text of the bill, which states, in Article 2, that on 1 January 2017, police officers, professional members of the Serbian Army, employees in the bodies in which the work is security and intelligence affairs; they are replaced by the words, again, on 1 January 2018, and since 1 July 2017, and this applies to employees in the bodies and organisations of the Autonomous Region and the local self-government unit. So all of this before we heard there's no touch point with this amendment. It's obviously a subject that deserves more attention from those who have worked on it for a number of years, not to say a decade and more, that we get to this problem and that we have overly busy people in our organs, primarily local self-government, but also in the AP Vojvodina. I absolutely agree with those MPs who have so far talked about this amendment "is deleted", so they took advantage of the opportunity and asked Minister Ana Brnabic to come before us with the exact number of people working in local self-government and how many people working in the Republic of Serbia, I mean only the public sector. I'd just ask the minister to come out with those numbers whenever she's able to, when she's able, give us an exact cut in the years, whenever she wants, from the '90s, she can since 2000, I care, and since 2002, 2003, but we have a complete cut in the last 15, 20 years, as agreed here. I would like to give a special accent, because from Novi Sad and I am extremely interested, for years we can't reach the figure - how many people are employed from 2000 to 2016 in the AP Vojvodina? The exact number to get at last. Whenever we asked questions here, whether we were in opposition or were MPs who supported the ruling majority, we could never get this number for any reason. That's fascinating. I don't want to hit low and ask for the names of these people to be correctly called and see if they were involved in politics, so, exactly what political party they belong to. Although I know the answers, I mean, two games up to plus one, it's all clear. These people today are not guilty because those who led the Vojvodina lost their election for 15, 16 years and no one will fire them. Just to finally find out - how many people are employed in the AP Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Assembly, in the former executive council, the government of Vojvodina, etc. in these 16 years? And if we're looking for numbers, we shouldn't be looking for numbers for some local self-government. Let's not play around and look for numbers just in the last three, four years when there's been a change of government in many local self-governments, but to get... If we want to talk seriously about this problem, then we need to talk seriously, not politically, so that we ask how many employees there have been in the last two years in the city because it is SNS, but we show seriousness by looking for cuts of employees in all authorities, from local self-government, AP Vojvodina and, of course, the Republic of Serbia. No one's running away from it. This until now, what we've heard is pure politics -- how busy it is in two years, in three years, so no one in Serbia is going to believe that we seriously want to know that number, but we just want to shoot each other and say how many in the last two years, as if the problem had arisen in the last two, three or four years. No, this problem has arisen since we started all together, here to hire people on the party line. The cabinet? There are always people in the cabinet that you think are the most capable and trustworthy people in this man who have the right to a cabinet. Let's not talk about someone in the cabinet bringing a strange man off the street. It doesn't exist. You have to trust me. These cabinets are all small – four, five, six, depending on how important the job is. There's one or two people working in my office by systemization. Everything else is not filled in. So, seriously, let's talk. Why is the deadline moving in a year? We heard. So, it's not the essence of it, and apparently no one will talk to the amendment, it would just discuss why the deadline shifts from the 17th to January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13020	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13021	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Articles 41 to 44, Art. From 70 to 81 and art. From 124 to 127. A question for the President of Parliament, to explain to us how possible, and I will explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure... These members, which I have quoted, refer to the formation of permanent working bodies in the Serbian Parliament, in the way of decision-making in these permanent working bodies and their jurisdiction. The working bodies of the National Assembly are a committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13022	I give you a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13023	The Honorable President of Parliament, therefore, you are obviously in a double role. You just didn't give me the right to a replica when the MP of the SPS clearly, in front of all of us here, mentioned the DS and spoke about this amendment we gave. This is about postponing deadlines and arrangements of paying classes for people who work in security, the Ministry of Interior, the military and, of course, talk about inevitable topics for two thousand years, as a milestone. As if we had a state that worked perfectly until 2000, where everything was solved, including this area of security, the military, and then in 2000, that great state was destroyed, some of the people who destroyed it came. I'll tell you some information that says the exact opposite. Here are some ministers sitting on this other side after 2000. The 2000 gross social product, inherited by the then government, amounted to around 7.5 billion euros. Seven and a half billion euros, and today it is 34 billion euros. So the total public debt in GDP was 202%. Is this a great situation and this great economy where all these people, both in the military and in the police and in the other area, which is here in the amendment, have been in such a great status? When you use this right from the bench, and when you talk about it, and if we go into a duel with you in this way, looking straight into your eyes, then you change your role, of course you go up, you don't let us, if we go into a conflict of opinion or duel, conflict of opinion, in one decent way, then you come to the post of chairman and you don't allow MPs of opposition to what belongs to them by the Rules of Procedure, which is a replica, because it was clear to all of us in the hall, except you, and I think you should maintain a proper relationship with every MP in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13024	I don't want a warning, but I didn't mention any parties, absolutely none. We're free to break down, I'll be right back. Neđa Jovanovic by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13025	I won't use the replica, of course. It's hard to portray facts as pathetic. That's impossible. I spoke only in fact language and no other way. I did not in any case bring any of the parties into a negative context, especially the party of the previous speaker. I was talking about the facts that relate to the local self-government that I come from. I have to ask all of us here, and even the citizens of Serbia who are watching us, surely in large numbers -- is there a party not from the post-war period but before that that had immunity to party employment? Is there a party that has in any way reduced this immunity in order to free the party? Is there a party back maybe 30, 40 years suffering from partocratism? There's a lot of it, they just need to be recognized, and I'm sure a lot of people recognize it. What's essential here is that it's not the people who work in the public sector, what are they doing in the public sector, so where are they going to work? Where do we hire them? What business? What business subject? What manufacturing hall when they're all devastated or destroyed? Where? When I was talking about keeping people, we weren't dealing with the fact that they bear the mark of this party or that party, what it says on his forehead, I was telling the truth. Well, the same DS that was with us in the 2008-2012 coalition also protected some people from the previous period. What are we talking about turning around in a vicious circle? Who's been hiring? Well, everyone's hired and none of it can be amnesty. That's the facts. But the fundamental question of this whole discussion is -- why was no one from 2000 until 2008, then the SPS was nowhere in the ruling structures, not dealing with the fact that the number of public sector employees increased? Why didn't anyone run the analysis then? Why did no one then, based on their analysis, develop certain programs to address certain issues? No, unfortunately not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13026	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13027	According to the amendment, only a lot has been said, so I'd like to try and agree on two things, and I think that's something that's common to all the discussions that have been said so far. One was said by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic as a national MP and the other by a respected previous speaker. First, the previous speaker said one fact that I think is undeniable and that we can all accept it, which is that unfortunately the private sector in Serbia is in big trouble and that the economy is destroyed. Not to go into the reasons for how long it takes and who blames it, we can say that unfortunately, the economy in Serbia is not at a satisfactory level and therefore does not give people the opportunity to work. That's right. It is also true that people who work in the public sector, and even if they are employed through political parties, are not guilty, because unfortunately, the parties have long become employment institutions and these people have no choice and we cannot bear the burden on them either, but the finding of the first problem is that we have a bad economy and our poor situation is in the economy, and that is Serbia's big problem. That everybody, I think we can accept. It's another thing. I am pleased that the President of Parliament has supported our initiative to the competent minister, to introduce us to all these analyses, to see what we can do at two points, the state of employees in the state administration and local self-government and the public sector, all public enterprises and state institutions since 5 October 2000, as well as in 2012 when the SNS assumes power today, as a third passing time, and on this basis we can carry out some analyses. To avoid political bickering, I think it's then the facts on which we can talk, but at this point we're particularly interested in the situation in the last four and a half, five years for two reasons. The first reason is that you've been in power for half a decade and it's quite logical that we're interested in what the current government is doing and what is the current trend, and we've heard that you're not giving answers to the question if wages are cut and the number of employees decreases, how do they grow in the budget in nominal amounts for employees' salaries? It's another thing. When you gave up yesterday on the pursuit of Mladjan Dinkic, a special prosecutor whom you have appointed, you can no longer call for a period from 5 October 2000 to 2012, because it turns out that no one is guilty of destroying the economy and economy of this country and then it is immoral for the SNS to call for something she inherited, because you amnestize Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13028	Let's go slowly to deadlines and the amendment. I ask all MPs slowly to proceed to the amendment after all. Veroljub Arsic as authorized by the amendment. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. ) According to the amendment. Everyone's been looking, everyone's mentioned parties, I don't want to get into it. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: He mentioned that SNS... Everyone said that to each other. I'm very focused. Please just. (Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, from the post: According to Business. No, there isn't. You said your intention to say something that was on the board. You missed it. Take it easy. Sasa Radulovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13029	We were in the MP group enough was simply thrilled by the presentation of Parliament, Gojkovic, who seemed to remember after five years that it would be great if we had an analysis of public sector employees and we warmly support the Parliament of Gojkovic who remembered it. Of course, she remembered a little politically because she was talking about Vojvodina, but we won't mind her. She doesn't even know what the same arches look like. So we support that proposal. Please, Minister, and ask the entire government to respond as soon as possible to the request of Parliament, Gojkovic, to provide us with those analyses of public sector employees. What's very important to us is that when we talk about this shift of generations in the public sector, about 30,000 people retire annually, so basically this party fit goes through...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13030	Let's get the amendment. I didn't ask a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13031	That analysis is very, very important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13032	Thank you. So, let's get back to the amendment, or else I'll move on to another one. Which one of you is it? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: That's exactly what you said. No, no. I didn't ask the question, I asked to be given the number of employees in the AP Vojvodina. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You do not know what the same arches are. All right. Don't yell at me. (Saša Radulovic, from town: I am not shouting. I'm talking. Are you whispering? Here you go. Milan Lapčević. Say it, but don't, because I can't take your time, just punish me to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13033	I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, which speaks of warnings given to the MP in cases where he approached the speaker without permission, that he spoke before he got the word, that, in addition to warning the President of the Assembly, he spoke of a question that was not on the agenda, etc. You have given me a warning, and you have not warned me, nor has any attitude in this article been fulfilled to give me a warning, nor have you listened to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You gave me a warning right away. I think you've violated Article 109 and I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13034	I didn't. You're the one who broke it. So you were referring to something that wasn't directly done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13035	You told me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13036	Thank you. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: You did not warn me. ( ) Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go. Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13037	As shown in our amendment, we did not criticise the extension of deadlines, but we felt that these deadlines should be preceded by something else, that this analysis that we are discussing here should be preceded and on which we insist, and I hope that, since you have also accepted our initiative, the Honorable President, that the chances for its realization will be drastically greater. What's the point? This is where this member, or amendment, applies to members of the military, police and security services. We have one big problem and perhaps these reforms, when I hear the word – reforms, I can say after these 16 years as a citizen of Serbia – God save us from reforms. Don't reform us any more, because there's nothing worse than reform. It seems that reforms and reduction of public sector employees have produced results only in the military, because the army has been completely devastated and completely destroyed and we now have the situation that in the last two years more than 1,000 members, and such small and weakened armies, have left their service, even moreover, the minister boasts that when they return between national peace operations with certain means, they leave the army and start their business, because it is investing and investing in Serbia, which is completely insane, he obviously missed what he is a minister. I don't think you understand the geopolitical change and the security situation in the region. We think that we should look again at the number of police officers and professional members of the army and employees in the bodies that have a partial security of intelligence, so we think that we also need that larger deadline to pass other system laws that regulate this matter. We also believe that we need to repair the drastically material position of the persons working in this sector. Because of the poor material position, I repeat, Serbia's defence is compromised and we have major security challenges, so indeed, these people who are doing their job professionally and responsibly hope to be respected in law and there will be no need for the Serb army to protest and seek the exercise of its rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13038	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13039	Thank you, Your Honor. I couldn't figure out what the amendment had to do with what was said, but, you know, I have to realize that, as a moment ago, my distinguished colleague, by the way, from law school, said one amazing thing, and it's bound to be that something has freed Mladjan Dinkic, as far as I know, the prosecutors are working, but here we have a situation around the military. Now someone says the army is devastated. I agree that she was devastated and scandalous, that the best possible officers retired at the age of 40 and those who had had a war experience, and now you have the first situation of renewal and technique and everything and people, after all, in the military and giving out more money for the army. So, I can't agree, I'm sorry, we haven't bought anything for years for our army, now we have for the first time, we're buying Migs. We haven't invested anything in armored infantry weapons in years, buying for the first tanks. Excuse me, how can we say the army was devastated? As far as I can tell, the army here is renewing its technique and investing in it. So, the point isn't just to attack the government for assault, but sometimes you have to have an argument, and you have to, of course, sometimes know something about it. It's the same story as before with Dinkic. I find that scandalous, but I apologize, it's the court's decision. If you think we should call the judge or prosecutors now and tell him - sorry, that's how you're going to judge or accuse someone, I think those times are over after 1945. Maybe someone would like it back, but thank God, I hope something like that never comes back to our country again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13040	What can I do for you, by amendment? He can't. [[Srdian Nogo, from the post: By amendment, if you can't replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13041	By amendment. I understand it's not easy to understand, it's got to be read a lot and it's in matter so you can analyze and understand, so, never mind, I'm here to explain everything that's not clear to him. We support investment in the military, but we have a big problem that the military are able to feed their families. So you have the support to get the equipment, but you would also have the support to increase the profits of people working in the defence system, because members of the Serbian Army can't feed their families and that's one big problem. The gentleman who spoke before me, a colleague of Djukanovic, must know that a large number, 1,500 to 2,000 in the previous two years, left the Army of Serbia. These are the exact facts, these are the data you need to read. Well, you're on that board, you should know these things. As for how you influence judgments, you chose Mr. Nenadic, did Djordjevic, the BIA chief, put him in that place, what are you talking about? Of course you're influencing judicial proceedings in Serbia, I'm accusing you of it directly, SNS. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13042	Wait a minute, I didn't give a line when you were talking to him, you can do it by amendment. I have to have the same arches. Arsic, you'll get a chance to run part of the session. So everyone has a personal seal, I don't think it's for replication. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13043	I'll be brief, although my last name has been mentioned, but it doesn't matter, anyway, here's the short one. First, it's not true that there's no increase in military wages, for the first time since who knows how many years there's been an increase in military wages and that's what you're not going to say. You know, the problem is when you don't understand yourself in the economy, in order to increase someone's income, pay, you have to earn it. You can't out of the blue or raise your loans to pay someone somewhere. I agree with you, we've been destroyed as a country, we've been completely destroyed as a country, but somewhere someone's started to develop that economy. For the first time we have a dedicated industry that is not remembered, for three or four times compared to 2012, there is more arms exports. He's investing in the army somewhere, and he's also investing in salaries, after all, our officers. The problem is, of course, that these people, I agree, have families, but, you know, and that patriotism that's in their hearts is something that's really nice and these people aren't just going on that call for pay but first of all to defend the country, I think we have to tell the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13044	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13045	I'm interested when a fellow Djukanovic wakes up, so what does Serbia look like afterwards?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13046	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13047	The government's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13048	Thank you, MP. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13049	It was not in this congregation that the opposition was coming out, and that those who stayed were shouting, close the door behind them. And none of it was good, no power, no opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13050	Please, by amendment, MPs. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13051	I tried, but the government is yelling - close the door.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13052	MPs, please, if you can talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13053	I'd love to, but they like to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13054	I know, you listen very carefully to what others say, especially Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13055	I listen to everything, I even listen to it, and they get it. So, the deadlines are the only thing here. The debate we had here shows one clear thing, that we still have a problem with our intentions. Government ministers, you'll have a problem with it no matter how many ministers you'll be. It's important to say here - I had a good intention of doing it, so it didn't work, so what should we do? I am not saying that it is done by Minister Nedimovic and Minister Brnabic, I am telling you that it is seen in the debate which comments on the amendment, where I am telling you – it cannot be for a year, here are two months. Once we measure responsibility, once we start measuring responsibility. When, then, one of the ministers will accept the amendment of one of the MPs who will say, you can't win for a good purpose for another year, you can't be allowed to come in a year and justify yourself, but we wanted to. Now we're extending for a year because we wanted something a year ago, so we said December 31st, 2016. Then we didn't measure whether we had all the necessary parameters to do the catalog, no, but – it will happen. Why am I asking this to happen in two months? Because it's usually done in systems where it's mishandled, where I don't mean bad disqualification, you two, the government or anyone, but the management mechanism is bad, and then you have to have some kind of pressure mechanism to force all of us who have enough capacity to change that situation, to change it for the better. That's why my amendment - we can't get through the year and see each other on December 20, 2017 again. Jobs have moved away, promises have been made, you give up your intention to start talking about work that has deadlines and that makes someone responsible if they misjudge the deadline. It's just that it's about why I think two months of this government is more than enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13056	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Sentinel Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13057	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have submitted a very similar amendment to the previous one. So why are we passing this law, and what is the whole point of this public sector pay system law? On the one hand is righteousness. So everyone who works in the public sector should get the same salary for the same job. It's a goal that's totally fine. This ministry, the Ministry of Local Self-Government, made a catalogue of public sector jobs last year, and that's fine. The second thing, which is why this law is passed is that it should be limited or, in some ways, controlled and the mass of wages paid in the public sector, because this could endanger public finances. How can you control the total amount of wages in the public sector if you have excluded from this law jobs in public enterprises and in public service? However, it's a public service, comparatively speaking, small. Public enterprises are a huge part of the public sector. That's where the most abuse is. I have suggested that this amendment extends this system of wages to employees of public enterprises, because it is precisely where the greatest abuses occur, even though they are not the only ones. We also suggested here, in the discussion, that this law cannot solve a problem that is repeated year after year, which we talked about here for the last hour, probably, which is party employment. I'll give you one insert short from the 2015 audit report, and I'd ask after the minister if she thinks this law can solve that problem? It's about a health-care gap in Nis. During 2015 it was found that the Niš health home had 44 non-medical workers more than allowed, and the auditor concluded that all employees in this health organization are late one salary. Do you think that without public systems of jobs, which are not covered by such a law, you can really solve the problem that party employment in the public sector creates for public finances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13058	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13059	I would just say that the whole point of sectoral laws to be passed in 2017, according to this bill on the system of wages, should ensure that we finally have the principle of the same pay for the same work, in terms of coefficients. The pain to fix the whole system was bigger than we expected because, among other things, I think I mentioned it here, by the analysis shown that more than 750 additional salary coefficients were introduced in the previous period. So you have one forest salary where you absolutely don't know who's paid for what, how he's paid for these years. So, yes, it is one of the reasons why the reform lasts longer than originally expected. The bill that has ended, even the public debate, which we can extend now certainly, because we still have talks with the unions, is extremely important to see how to get in the way of these additional constant coefficients, so that we can have transparency and parallel wages in this system. The mass of wages is, of course, controlled over the budget and controlled by the Commission for Additional Employment, and additional employment is allowed in relation to the mass of salaries. Finally, I would just say, let's go back to the whole problem of how difficult it is to bring order into this sector and it seems to me that we are taking it one step at a time, and what has been asked of the Ministry that we have a cross-section of the number of people in the public administration and units of local self-government since 2000, until 2013, there is no data. It was only since 2013 that we started to create data, registers and update data. So there'll be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13060	Thank you. Time. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, together MPs of the Democratic Party group, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic, submitted together. Zoran Zivkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13061	So, let me reiterate, by misusing the law-proposing procedure without being able to introduce the MPs to the proposed text, and this is the only way to conduct a competent debate on proposals, the current regime is harshly destroying all the principles of parliamentaryism. In this way, apart from the still fragile democratic principles of parliamentary life being annulled, any possibility of providing Serbia with a prosperous future that is only possible with respect to the Constitution, law and democratic principles of modern civilization is being destroyed. The laws passed by this procedure do not do any good to our country and citizens. That's the methodological part. Of course, this amendment also aims to curtail the lateness of ministers, which those who were before them, in passing an important law promised to Serbian citizens and MPs of all colors in this parliament, with an obvious previous knowledge that this is impossible to do and will not be done until the end of next year. I'm ready to bet, Minister, since you ask what, I'm willing to bet. In something appropriate to the relationship between the government minister and the MP who will then be in power. At the end of next year. Before that, I ask Minister Brnabic to tell us the secret of how he went, since you know it, you've been researching for a year, two years, through NAED and today, how the public sector employment went, above all...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13062	Ambassador, be kind, you asked to delete the publication in the "Official Messenger" within eight days...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13063	That's right, it's an integral part, and now you're wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13064	I'm not wasting your time. You need to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13065	Just state the reason, because this is a rape of parliamentaryism. Anyway, you tell us how... (Zoran Zivkovic, from place:... [[Disabled microphone.]] have been employed in the Republic administration since 2000?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13066	That's right. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13067	Thank you. About the number of public sector employees, for the minister, it's very easy to solve that problem if anyone... You have said since 2013, you have no data from earlier, you have sent a letter to all the services, all parts of the state's administration to deliver these data to you because they certainly have them, paying their salaries. You can easily reach the number of employees every year and the number of temporary and occasional jobs, the contracts for the work... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13068	Ambassador, I think you've made a mistake about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13069	Don't interrupt me. (Saša Radulović, from the site: You can practically get all the data if you want. [[Disabled microphone.]] Stop raping the debate. Let us talk. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13070	I'm sorry, Serbia, if you will lead this parliament. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He will see after you. Is that an illusion of my shortsightedness or what? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: It is an illusion of your inability to lead the Assembly. I give you a warning because you interrupt the work of Parliament and yell at the chairman. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13071	Well, this Article 3 we've given the amendment to delete has been amended. So, the government itself failed to write a good law of three members, where it moved deadlines in the last article at that time – the entry into force, the government remembered that it could not arrive within eight days to declare this law, as it would be adopted less than eight days to the new year, and should begin to apply before the new year, so as not to start to apply the law of 1 January 2017, as the government passed in a law adopted here in February of the month. Then the amendment of the MPs, which certainly received that inspiration from the government, is accepted here to amend and correct the government's failure and that the law enters into force the next day, that is, from the day of the publication of the "Official Messenger". That says it again about your confusion and incompetence of this government. So, it was known when this law was passed, not to quote what the Udovici Minister was saying, that now, I don't know what to do and that 10-month deadline, what's most important is that by passing this law whose government's delay will now move for another year, rewarding and grading public sector employees will be allowed. It's not there now, it's going on. It will continue with party employment, as another election is going to take place, so several thousand votes should be bought. That's the point of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13072	You'll be kind enough to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13073	That is why we believe that this law should not be passed in any of the three members that this government has managed to put into the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13074	Be kind, about the amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13075	Thank you. This member, whose erasure we are proposing, speaks about when the law should come into force. You yourself have seen your mistake and suggested, one of the ruling coalition's MPs probably suggested that this member change. We do not want the law to ever come into force, and that is why we have also proposed to delete this member, as well as the other two members of this poor, unjust law. We do not want him to come into effect ever because not only does he not bring order into public sector wages, as you claim in your reasoning, but this law shows two things. First, to introduce a terrible injustice among public sector wages. Secondly, that you yourself were unable to implement what Minister Udovicki, your predecessor, promised us when she was passing the basic bill here, whose amendments are now being proposed. We always said the law was unfair. No pay order in the public sector will be until the law applies to public enterprises, where public sector wages problems arise. It does not occur in the military or in the police or in the education where, by the way, the salary continues to be 10,000 dinars lower than the republican average, and more than 80% of the educational staff has a high professional standing. So, this law, as you have suggested it, does not introduce any order, it makes an injustice, and that is why we suggest that it never comes into force. You still owe us, Mrs. Brnabic, the answer to the question whether you are not telling the truth when you say that a functional analysis has been done, or does the truth not tell Minister Vujovic when she says it has not been done? I think it's very important, because you're here to present us with some precise data. He said that less than a month ago in this assembly, and you pretend to know the exact details. If the analysis isn't done, which he accused you and your ministry of, then it's unclear how you get all that exact information. If it's not done, then apologize for falsely informing us that it was done. The law is bad, unfair, and we don't ever want it to come into effect, and that's why we're predicting the expropriation of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13076	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13077	It is clear to me that there is a group here in the Assembly who does not want this law to come into force. It is clear to me, and therefore we should have waited until 2013 for someone to put order into this system in the public administration. What prevented it from being known then how many people were employed to work, what is the structure of employees, which is not a functional analysis, which is not a vertical analysis? I suppose it's great to function in a system where nothing is known and nothing can ever be analyzed, like the system until 2013, which is why we are now generally dealing with this system 20 years ago should not be dealing with any other business at the Ministry of State and local self-government, but by analysing what happened before. We'll deal with what's going to happen from now on, so in the future, but we're not going to deal with what's going on right now, and it's certainly not going to be our priority what's been going on in the past, because we're running reforms and these reforms are going to lead to the future. So, that's my answer. As for functional analysis, I am not sure what Minister Vujovic was talking about, so I cannot rely on what my colleague was talking about. I'll check in anyway, and I'll get back to you. I've given you a clear and detailed explanation for what the ministry is doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13078	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13079	Let's remind the public that we're talking about an amendment to Article 3. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. This member certainly needs to be deleted, but we, unlike all the colleagues who have spoken so far, are going to set things up in a different way. We're not going to ask how many employees there are in the public sector, how many who hired, we don't deal with demagogy. They hired everyone who was on the opportunity, the question was whether they hired professional people, or hired people whose training was not suitable for certain jobs, or brought people with fake diplomas, or brought people who only appeared on lists, and never at work. Our questions are about, in fact, the essential question is, why haven't paid classes been done yet? It's a problem that's been solved for years and that everyone in the campaign promises, but in real life, no one solves. These days we discussed some 27 points of the agenda, and today we have amendments on 15 proposals, and of these 15 proposals 13 are proposals for amendments and additions. This speaks of the unseriousness of the proposings, the insecureness of the government and the insecureness of the congregation's majority, which only makes laws to meet some EU normatives there, and essentially non-applicable laws are being passed. This is one of those examples. We further want to ask why the ban on public sector employment is being extended. Unlike all of you who think they should be fired, and Mrs. Brnabic, who has already announced 5,000 people who are going to get fired, you know, people aren't things that can move just like that. The fact is, there are a lot of public sector employees, but I'm back to the beginning of that question, it's not just about the number, it's about the qualification. We have ministers here complaining that they can't solve the problem of illegal construction because they lack construction inspectors, they can't solve the problems that arise in stores because there aren't market inspectors, they can't solve tax administration problems because there's no tax inspectors, and that's all fact. So, by banning employment and such laws, you actually stop the functioning of the system, you stop the functioning of organs that should do their jobs, and I guess we should all live better, not just materially, but just finally start living in a regulated state, which Serbia is not. As much as you've dared to say it is, it's not. Because if it were, we wouldn't have had 13 amendments and additions today from 15 laws. Let's once have some minister with a team of associates sit down and do some really billing to bring him here, to debate him seriously and adopt him, and at least to the length of the government's mandate. This is very, very unserious. Also, we want to ask you why the extended pay reduction deadline in the public sector is? You want public sector experts, you want highly educated people. When I say this, I'm talking about those who are really highly educated, not those who have magically come to a degree. If someone's really highly educated, professional, moral, doing their job well, then I don't care what party they came from, all I care about is how they do the job they're supposed to do. But that job has to be paid. We know what state we live in and we don't expect everyone to have a salary like Dusan Bajatovic and Jorvanka Tabakovic, but the expertise has to be paid. It would be better, Minister, if in that sense you were doing a little bit of business with this resort whose head you are, and you let those cancellations go, that 5,000 people will retire, don't make new social cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13080	By amendment, MP Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13081	I'll use the same terms the minister used. You know what's great, Mrs. Brnabic? It's great that you're equating the salary of a housewife in a health care facility with the salary of a housekeeper at school, and the salary of a maid in a public company remains higher than the salary of a school director. Now, that's why this law is unfair, and that's why we don't want it to ever come into effect, because you don't introduce any order, as you boast, you're only making injustice, you're introducing the law, and you're destroying the possibility that that injustice will ever be solved. You didn't do anything about it, you just made a worse situation and all of Serbia's citizens know it and that's why we don't want the law to come into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13082	Ambassador Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13083	I call for this not to be accepted either, as it refers to a member who must inevitably be in the law, which is a member who speaks when the law enters into force. And I don't think at all as a relevant reason for that or what someone who claims to himself that he's not competent to argue, I agree with that, but that's not why this member doesn't have one. I don't agree with the fact that after a few days, someone decides that the law only has three members, and he claims he hasn't been able to read it, as I don't think he should ever come into force, as I am now not going to recommend to those who use those techniques and recommendations to propose something better when they wake up. I won't, for I know. Sleeping, not sleeping, are just as good suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13084	By amendment, MP Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13085	The Messenger Orlic never says anything but this. Maybe we don't really care what Ambassador Orlic thinks. We are talking to the government that defends the law and expect some answers from the government, and MP Orlic can keep his opinion to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13086	You didn't get the replica, but, good. Here you go, MP, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13087	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to ask you now that in these two minutes, and it won't be full of two, sure, make sure that I mention anyone's name, and I'm saying I won't, but I'm telling you that you're keeping an eye on it, because I know that after a while they're going to scratch the microphone of the one who caused the replica and that he claims that I mentioned it, that he's entitled to the replica, even though he doesn't. He's going to claim that his rights have been compromised, that something terrible has been denied here. You make sure I mention anyone's name, and I'll say the following. In 2013, someone who claims we don't need subsidies today, claimed that subsidies to businesses are good and necessary because someone who wants to invest must have a good reason to invest in Serbia, someone who today claims everything the opposite, and I didn't say what it's called and I believe that anyone can guess who I think it is, in 2013 he claimed that the PIO Fund should be abolished, and today he's able to suggest that something further helps him, probably when we cancel it, then he needs help. So in 2013, this same guy claimed that all the companies that are in restructuring should be thrown into bankruptcy, today he probably claims he never said that, just as he today claims he never claimed that Jelizar should be abolished and 5,000 people thrown into the street. Who I was thinking, I know, and I don't answer for your associations. Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I asked for a word, the president of the Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13088	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Serbian MP Filipovic. (Saša Radulovic, from the site: I asked for a word. ) The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I asked for a word, the president of the Assembly. I give you a warning from Ambassador Radulovic. I apologize to you. ... considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Ambassador of Serbia, Filipovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13089	Thank you, Chairman. I thank the government for accepting my amendment and I just want to say two sentences. We see that some would be betting, and some would work. The government of the Republic of Serbia and we would like to work, let the gamblers gamble, but no longer with the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13090	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the Association of Coaches, I will certainly request a license for the conditioning coach. I am grateful to the government for not accepting this amendment, but I must say two things about the amendment. We don't have extra workers, we have extra workers. The biggest curse in the economy is – I hope Rodney was the bankruptcy manager, and the biggest curse in the public sector – may be the bankruptcy manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13092	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13093	I have submitted an amendment that also shortens the deadline. So, just to inform the citizens, the government has submitted an amendment to have this law enter into force eight days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", and then it is likely that it will be too late, that it will enter into 2017, and then shortened the deadline by accepting the amendment of my previous speaker. Otherwise, there is another MP who also suggested that the deadline be cut, but was wrong in one day, so he said the law should come into force one day after the publication of the "Official Messenger". I suggested that it enter into force on the same day as it was published in the Official Messenger. What does the deadlines show us? It shows that the government didn't quite come up with this whole thing, that it wasn't a good time and that law enforcement could have been a big problem. One of the things that is also not well timed is this famous commission that takes care of where extra employment has been. Can I ask the minister, if there is only a minute, where can I find the information from this commission that takes care of where the public sector has suffered from excessive employment? I'd like to see the data on her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13094	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13095	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow professor has told a lie, so it wasn't my amendment that was adopted, it was Mr Filipovic's amendment. My distinguished colleague professor talks about party employment, and his leader when he became minister first hired him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13096	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have adopted amendments to the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services submitted by MPs. You've received reports from the competent committees as well as the government's opinion. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and joint MPs of the DS Group. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13097	The public is concerned by the law, whose idea is to extend the fine paid by Serbian citizens for the public service of four billion dinars for next year, so that extraordinary press conferences and all other specific emissions that are part of the work therapy being carried out in order to have a better government than the government is on the nerve base that we have today. The amendment I have submitted has a magic sentence – it is deleted, and the reasons are completely new, because the abuse of the law-proposing procedure without the possibility of MPs getting acquainted with the proposed text, which is the only way to conduct a competent debate on proposals, the current regime undermines the most harshly all principles of parliamentaryism. In this way, apart from the still fragile democratic principles of parliamentary life being annulled, every possibility is being destroyed for Serbia to provide a prosperous future that is only possible through the respect of the Constitution, the law and democratic principles of modern civilization. The laws passed by this procedure do not do any good to our country and citizens. Here the situation has been proven in four billion ways. So while there were some normal governments, let's say, this first post-five-October, first decision of the government was to replace the then head of security, and the second decision to cancel the fee paid for the TV subscription. And there was no TV subscription while they were normal authorities. Who used to bring it in, pick it up, hang it up? That's right, that's right. It hasn't been taxed in three years, because there's a way to fund it. If he doesn't know the current leadership, let him bring in magic minds from Pink TV, Happy TV, and other TVs that allegedly self-profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13098	Time. Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13099	Madam President, the SRS has asked that this member be deleted because the president of our parliamentary group, when submitting an exposé by Prime Minister Vukic, said that for the government of Serbia, which you did not do, is best to direct the amount of four billion dinars, how much you give RTS and RTV to the necessary social benefits for those who are today in Serbia, and not for the media, etc. A public service that doesn't give us the right, as their slogan says, to know everything. Namely, Serbian citizens should know that RTS director, who reports on his work, not to you government gentlemen, and there is now not Minister Antic, who brought some statistics a few days ago and tried to defend RTS from himself, and from members of the government, because I said he was not satisfied with their work. So, they are most likely to behave under Bujosevic's leadership, and for this they are obviously only accounting for their Western mentors and individual foreign ambassadors. If RTS, Mrs Gojkovic, is in Serbia today, when children are hungry, when people are out of work, when we do not have enough for the education system, for schools, for higher education institutions, for members of the most vulnerable and representatives of individual and national groups and minorities in this country, if he spends 800,000 euros a year on board and drinks, which I would say, therefore, on a meal, on various deaconies, then you should ask yourself whether you are such a continuing and giving money to those who need to be told to be on the market as well as other televisions in this country, as well as other media sector that is fighting for it, they can continue to do so. It's obvious I can, because you're letting them. You and this member, who are asking to be deleted, have given us an explanation that, behold, it takes another year for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, later on, a colleague of Radeta and other colleagues to talk about these 150 dinars, how much citizens will continue to pay in 2017 for financing RTS, how the situation needs to be overcome a little bit more. This situation should have been overcome to put RTS under control and parliamentary supervision, in the way you chose the regulatory body that has been spoken of today and the selection of two members, who also controls RTS, that the programme be characterized by state and national interests, which of course is not. The prime minister himself complained that in some news he was, I don't know, in what minute, although all the media is open to him, he can do as he pleases, even to RTS. But the main opposition party and our president, who, after 12 years, won the UN tribunal itself, returned to Serbia, did not get one single term, and other fellow MPs of the largest opposition SRS. Therefore, we believe that the last moment to trade and realize that by financing television, which is not only national, and not implementing a policy of media that is in the interests of the state and the people, you stop funding to make sure that Bujosevic and others, who serve the West and the interests that are contrary to vital state and national interests, are financed in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13100	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13101	The citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has pledged to cancel the RTS subscription. And of course, the subscription was very quickly replaced with a fee, which now these amendments of the law are actually extending the deadline for this to continue. So another example of promises that have not been fulfilled is precisely the diametric opposite of what the prime minister has promised. Of course, RTS needs to be financed from the budget. We need a public service, but there's got to be a responsibility. That responsibility comes from the introduction of order in the RTS itself. We also have to do job systems, do an evaluation of how money is spent. We also need to see what kind of program is being broadcast, that we have basic fair relations in politics, for example. During the election in the election campaign, therefore, some basic things about order in RTS must be introduced, so that taxpayers can finance RTS. This way through the power bill is deeply wrong. It is not funded properly by RTS. You need to change the way you finance, this is how you do it now, you just have to stop it. The DJB movement, as MP Gojkovic said, when we come to power, we will abolish both the subscription and the tax, RTS will be financed from the budget, but order will be introduced and the money will be known exactly what is being spent on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13102	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13103	Thank you. I'm fascinated by the amount of ignorance that used to manifest here. First, the promoter himself says – we cancelled the subscription. I apologize, and then how did it go? Well, it's funded from the budget. First, we have to make a difference between state television and public service. You've passed the law to be a public service. Public service is funded by citizens, and most directly. State television is something financed from the government budget. I don't mind, just don't deceive the citizens. Whether it was financed from the budget or from some fee and subscription, once again, the citizens are funding, that budget full of tax citizens. So, however you turn, citizens finance television. You might want to shut it down. Perhaps you have a desire to end RTS. I don't mind. Here, in a referendum, maybe citizens to vote to lift RTS. I have to admit, I'm very disappointed with their program. Personally, I think their program, particularly informative, is pretty bad. And otherwise, it's mostly all your frames. Now, how did you finance it, how did you secure RTS? By hiring all your party staff there, and by firing those former Milosevics from the Milosevic period, so people all got labor disputes, so we had to pay them multimillion-dollar fees because you did it the way you did when you were a hidduce. You beat up the head of RTS and set that same TV on fire. That's right, shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13104	Ambassador... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: calm this fat man down there! Just don't talk about how I'm gonna run the session. You speak to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13105	I beg you, the chairman, those who advocate violence and beatings to warn you. As far as RTS is concerned, choose and tell the citizens – citizens, do you want to cancel RTS or do you want to have RTS? If you want us to have it, then there are two ways of funding -- either to be paid directly or to be paid out of the budget, then it's state television, and yet the citizens are funding it, because the citizens are full of the budget. As for some other television that was mentioned here, in your time you were making that television. You've barely mounted your contributions on that TV. There's an opposition MP who even boasts about making that TV. What are we talking about here? Well, you're the creators of such a program that's on TV today. So it really doesn't make any sense to attack and spit what you created. That's really ugly. And I think it's unfair for that television, because if someone made that television and yelled in heaven, among other things, it was you and your staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13106	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13107	So here we have a previous question that is more or less clear, which is - is this country needed public service or not now? There are conflicting opinions, but what is seen from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture and Information is undeniable that the public service of the state of Serbia is needed. Public service must also be funded from some sources and there is MP Djukanovic right, funded by citizens one way or another. The point of this is very simple, or the citizens will finance directly, by some calculations, the price of about 350 dinars under these conditions, or they will pay 150, and the rest will be settled this way. It's a very simple logic. These remarks we've heard here are more about editorial policy. That's not what we're talking about here today. The editorial policy is formed and controlled in another way. Here, I will remind you, therefore, that the Radio Television of Serbia and the Radio Television of Vojvodina once a year submits a report to the National Assembly for consideration and decision-making, and the Board of Regulators for Information, the Work and Business Report for the previous year with the Report of the Independent Authorised Auditor. There are mechanisms set out in the law on how and who can control and edit policy and work, the internal structure of the Public Service. What we're talking about today, if we understand each other well, is how he's funded and who's funding him and at what price? So, MP Radulovic, if I'm not mistaken earlier he said, so he believes that this country needs a public service. You've made a different point of commercializing. It's a subject maybe. It's a subject that can be considered next year or some other time, but in this situation, when we are able to decide and we have to decide how public service will be financed next year, we don't see a better solution than this. Moreover, in the previous session, MP Komic submitted one amendment, the amendment was accepted, to extend the deadline from one year to two...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13108	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13109	Thank you. Let me say it one more time, since it was an attempt to twist what I said. Of course, Serbia needs public service. I'm not talking about what the minister was saying, I'm talking about MP Djukanovic. So Serbia needs public service. The question is how to fund it. We think it's wrong to do it from a subscription, from a tax. It is necessary to finance from the budget by predicting exactly how much, and before that, it means that the government cannot decide from budget to budget whether or not to give the money, and on the other hand, order should be introduced into the Public Service. So we have clear data on job systematization, how many people we need, what kind of program we want, what things are being financed. This is where we enter, of course, the question of the programming scheme itself and what RTS is doing, because that also determines the cost of RTS. That's what citizens expect. Through that responsibility, then it takes taxpayers to finance the further work of RTS. We've had so many opportunities to see, astronomical contract prices signed by RTS with various other burazer companies. It's something citizens don't want to finance. There's no transparency, and that's why I'm talking about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13110	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from town: Replica. To whom? You have no right. Do you want to talk about the amendment? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the city: No. You don't have the right to a replica, but it can be about an amendment. The word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13111	I'd like to do exactly what the minister said. He's talking about some kind of mechanism. It's not whether there are mechanisms or not, it's whether these mechanisms are cellular and are effective. Just because someone on behalf of RTS is going to file a report once a year doesn't mean anything, absolutely nothing. The public is aware that it is impossible to get to the amount of wages on RTS. I'm not talking about the salaries of ordinary people who actually earn them, I'm talking about the salaries of those who know each regime. They're what I'm talking about. Therefore, anything paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, from citizens' pockets, must be made public, it must be known what kind of money it is going to. There's no such thing on RTS. The first question you need to answer – do we even have a public service? You ask us questions – is it necessary or not? Tell us if we have it or not. In our opinion, we don't have it. Is RTS a public service, does RTS work according to professional ethics? No, I don't. Does RTS work in accordance with some normal principles? No, I don't. The Serbian Radical Party is the second largest in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They don't invite us to any debate. They call it some kind of analyst, self-called, quacking analysts. Where did they check their social weight? Nowhere. What election? Who declared them to be God-given to come and spread their minds and opinions? Who's interested in their opinion? That's why we have elections. That's why we have an institution. Serbian Radio Television does not respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A few days ago, a direct transmission was cut, what was the basic course of democracy, to play a water polo game that was played the previous day. Why didn't they let her go the day before? Why didn't they let her go to RTS 1, anywhere else? What could be more important than a session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly that decides on the lives of citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13112	There was a game live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13113	... which makes laws according to which citizens will have to live, and they don't even have a chance to find out what's being said here in the National Assembly. Therefore, we do not need this RTS, nor do we need Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13114	Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13115	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think an amendment like this should be adopted for one simple reason. Advocating the abolition of a television subscription or a fee, call it whatever you want, has been overcome as an instrument of political struggle. The commitment to abolishing the tax is a direct commitment to abolishing the Public Service or to returning the Public Service to state property. This, in my humble court and opinion, would be a unique example in Europe of the 21st century to end public service in this way. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the scene: It is not this law. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13116	And you were just talking about the amendment? The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13117	Thank you. Since I worked on that law in 2001 and 2002, there are commercial televisions and there is a Public Service. It doesn't take this much forest to bring into this debate. The differences in attitudes are fine, but you don't have to say things that aren't true. So there's commercial television and there's public service. What public service looks like in which country of Europe, we can discuss. He mostly failed in England. BBC is a public service. It is paid there from taxes paid by every citizen of England at the end of the year, which sets out a portion. The idea of the Public Service is to finance it from public income, in the sense that every citizen pays it, because then it does not depend on the state, or the government, it is an idea, to be politically independent. I respect the objections of the people who say that it is too much of the influence of state policy. It's a debate about the program. Commercial TV has no operating conditions such as the Public Service. Commercial TV has much more money than commercials, they have much more than a minute. Public service has fewer, because he has other incomes. Its commercial activities are only complementary. I, who have long worked in school, education and children's programs, must regret to say that today's television is gone, and it's my personal regret that the public service... Public service should have a program – classical music, educational emissions, school emissions, children's. Commercial TVs don't do that because it's not worth it. Therefore, the public service needs to be preserved, but the whole other question is legitimate here, is this television right now the way it's supposed to be? Just this one. Whatever the public service is, he still has more professionals than other TV. Therefore, do not talk so easily about the Public Service. Personally, I think Serbia needs it, but that some changes are needed there, and I think that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13118	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13119	Thank you. My proposal is that, instead of the proposaling idea to extend by one year, it extends by two years. It's a good thing you accepted that. It's the beginning of facing reality. That's always healthy. Now we have two years at our disposal for RTS and RTS, and we are aware that we haven't done enough in the year, within the deadline prescribed by law, to really resolve everything we have as a comment on RTS and RTV's work. Why do I say that's good? Because there is a order of things in solving the problems of a changing society. First you know what you want, and then you know what you want it to look like. If we want to talk about RTS and RTS policy first, they have to be funded. First, the ministry and all of us who are interested in media freedoms and a good public service programme must know that one problem is solved on a given deadline long enough for everyone else to deal with other topics. Why do I think it's facing reality? Because this is, I don't know, the fourth or fifth time we say, give us another year. But now, for the first time, I think that the dialogue begins, in which I hope, from the ministry and from the government, we will hear – and what do we do in that year? What are we doing until March of the month? What are we doing until June of the month? What do we do this year if elections are called? What do we do if we don't have all the choices? What are we doing in the fall? When we give ourselves a deadline for the RTS and TV report to come and talk about editorial policy. I am not an opposition to Serbia, I am an opposition to the government and this is proof that whatever I think of the editorial policy of one and another public service, I will defend their right to exist, because there is a law that we voted for, in which we said they should exist. If we face reality in such a way, it can only be good for public services, for editorial policy, for the government and for all of us who know from other people's examples how rights and freedoms are going in a changing society. First, a true minority. First around this society to achieve agreement, because it is important to stop discrimination and to understand that we are all equal, then media freedoms go, because it is most sensitive, the right to a free public spoken word, the right to criticism, the right to dialogue, the obligation to dialogue, then the judiciary goes, and only in the end, unfortunately, my other rights, which are guaranteed by the Constitution of people, the right to work, the right to freedom of movement, the right to property and all the other rights that are written down by us in the Constitution. If we've understood this another delay, then there's hope that we'll be more satisfied with RTS and RTS. This is not a session where we talk about editorial policy, but if there is a session where we understand that we have to listen to each other when we talk about editorial policy and that the media is nowhere private, state, whatever you want, any political parties and that the laws apply equally to commercial media and public services. It's often forgotten here. The rules for commercial television are the same. He can't beat anything he wants on commercial television because it's private television. The rules are the same in the same laws we voted for. If we understand each other in all of this, I hope that at the end of the second year from today we will also have a sustainable, clear, and of all the accepted financing solution and the validity of the Public Service Act. I'm glad to be a part of that solution, as I wish every good to everyone who works on it in the months ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13120	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13121	So let me answer the question. You asked the question – do we have a public service, so you answered – no. I think you're too strict. I think we have a public service, not only in terms of form, but also in terms of content. Public service, means the last thing I'm going to do right now, to be a lawyer for the editorial policy of this Public Service, or to represent their interests and attitudes, but if we try to be, from my angle, a little bit more objective, we'll see that the Public Service broadcasts a very substantial and rich programme from culture and the First Program and the Second Programme and that Third Channel and that program from the field of artistic music and jazz and national history and literature and art history, etc. etc. That's one aspect. So that's what there is. That's a fact. Anyone can easily be convinced of that. When it comes to the information program, it is clear that there are dissatisfactions on different sides, but this system in which we are staying works so - this Assembly is choosing REM plans, REM selects members of the Management Board, the Management Board controls the work of the Public Service. We can, I'll agree with you or anyone who's affirmative, make a special assembly debate about whether this system is good, but here we're talking about what we'd get if we were to in some way end the funding of the Public Service for next year. Just by adopting this amendment we have created the conditions, let's formally consider, at least, that in two years of adoption, not in two years, in a few months, I hope very quickly even, by adopting a new media strategy and opening a dialogue right in this Assembly, we can improve the conditions for work and for the control of the work of the Public Service. I personally think you're too strict to blackmail that we don't have a public service. We have it, because the public service of RTV is fulfilling its mission legally and through a very substantial programme in the languages of national minorities and informative and cultural etc. etc. I don't want to pick it up. When it comes to finesse and divergence, satisfaction or dissatisfaction, let's say the work of informative editorials and representations of political parties or of this or of what you've affirmed besides the rest, it certainly is an eternal topic, because if we look back, we'll see that whoever was from the opposition in the last 15 years has not been too satisfied with the editorial policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13122	Thank you, Minister. We have to respect time, so it doesn't take government time. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: A us sec. Well, it's not like that. All right, let's do it. Mirko Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13123	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would just like to commend the government and commend the minister for accepting the opposition's amendment at the moment because I see it as someone who's been doing this job for years as a sense of repentance, because, you know, repentance is, no one's asking for sinlessness, but repentance. At a time when RTS tables were pounding, when in Vojvodina it was quite different what comes from the Republic, and today it is a community of information, it is very important that we talk just like this today. By doing so, I commend and accept this amendment and, of course, the common idea that information should be as appropriate to the citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether they live in Vojvodina, central Serbia, Belgrade or KIM. Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13124	I'll do it for a while. I'll make sure I don't answer for this anymore, but I'll get some things cleaned up. As far as this amendment is concerned, it's a good thing you accepted it, but some things to clear up here. First, when someone says about funding RTS, they say -- the government should finance it from the budget. I don't mind, but you have to tell the citizens exactly that it's national then. The opposition's emissaries are earning. I'd like to ask if he can do it without throwing away, if that's all right. Why? Then you have to agree to this, not that REM is setting up the RTS Management Board, but that the government should appoint the director of RTS. Exactly because then it's government television. So the government would appoint a director and you couldn't just decide who the REM members are and then REM would set up RTS. Because that's what the government is funding directly. So let's not play with that because you've passed the Public Service Act. Public service is funded by citizens. The RTS Management Board shall be elected by an independent institution. The assembly chooses that independent institution. Don't play with it and say it – we just want the government out of the budget because then the government has the right to influence even the programming scheme, and of course it has the right to appoint a director then, because it's its institution. I don't think that's a good solution. On the other hand, it's said that RTS is on the market. I don't mind, but you know, if you want to save the culture, and since RTS produces a certain program that, you'll agree, can hardly compete in the market with these starlets, various other realitys, which you've invented and you're the authors of it, I'm not so sure that RTS could survive there, because you can't jazz, classical music, etc. to put it on the market to be competitive with the "Great Brother" or the other reality, which you brought us here. Then it is known that RTS in that situation would completely fail. You have to preserve culture somewhere, and that's the only way you can really do it. Do I like the RTS information program? I think he's very bad, but it's still thanks to your personnel who are still held there and no one touched them, unlike you who by broom cleaned up absolutely every time you came to RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13125	The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13126	If we are still on the amendment tabled by Mrs Gordana Komic, I call on the government to reconsider its position. I think this amendment is bad and it's not good that it's accepted, and here, now I'm going to tell you why. Just make sure you don't mistake this is the law that's point no. 2, we have something like that, point 3, but that has nothing to do with point no. 2. Article 62 reads – from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 public media institution RTS and public broadcasters are partly financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to carry out their basic work. It is partly financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a solution for 2016. You accepted the partial funding of both 2017 and 2018, and what is the second part? Part two is that other law. This law does not follow another law. Take care of what you do. The reform of this sector was launched by Vice-President Zarko Korac in 2003, so his DOS members didn't understand it then either. So then it continued later through the RRA, so we got what we got now. What we have received – the media public service of European Serbia. Well, he can't be like that, he can't be European Serbia. Serbia should be Serbian, not European. And that's why it's your program, and that's why you have Bujosevic. To ask someone here who's in favor of Bujosevic being the director, five people if he raises his hand. If you asked those editors over there, two, three would raise your hand. Someone forced it on you, just like he imposed the concept of the law and all this. In addition to the European Serbia media public service, you have that supplement -- RTS, the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, right? Is it the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's not. Whose property is it? One rope circle around the director. You have everything and everything there, but you have neither objective nor impartial, nor quality information. You have a "better life" 765th time in the replay. Can we meet our information needs? With this public service, no! And the third, most important thing you've forgotten, 10m euros is invested in digitisation. The digitization allowed you to get RTS, those who have a national license, local and regional depending on the area. Right? You get free of charge, you don't pay anything. Who gets the money from cable TV? You're putting us in an awkward situation to talk about a 150-dollar taxi because of these cameramen, tons and others who receive minimum wages. When you say RTS, you all think of the leaders there, the ones that give away 80,000 just for a haircut a month. It's not RTS and it's not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, there are cable TVs. How is it possible that other televisions don't charge anything and have 24 programs, how is it possible that some commercial television has thirty and some channels? He doesn't charge anything. There's Zravko Herbiko, 80 million a year, right? And where's RTS? He got involved, he cared about what Davenport would tell him, what Dunja Mijatovic would say, could he call out for his status a little, hang on to the press, schedule journalists in the association and act synchronisedly. Why? RTS hasn't been on Belgrade TV since 30 years ago. There was a window in the world, not a window in the world today. What are they for? They serve something that was served by French TV 50 years ago. Closed system, we all have to respect them like they're white bears. We've got a public service, so we've got it on paper. Do we actually have it? We don't have it. Why don't we have it? It does not meet the needs of citizens, it does not meet the needs of citizens. How can he meet the needs of the citizens? You'll see Vukadinovic there rather than the Assembly. You'll see an Angelkovic before you see him, who is this Angelkovic man of mine? What kind of analysts are they? Zoran Stojiljkovic was more at RTS than at the Anti-Corruption Agency. What are you talking about? It is the public interest of the citizens of Serbia. Well, who's the one who interprets the public interest? REM, Gordana Susha, and that group there that got together? No! No! This question needs to be opened and has to be resolved. To resolve this issue, there is no extension of the deadlines, there are no 150 dinars, no matter how symbolic the funds are, there is no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13127	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13128	Thank you. Let me just add a technical change of spelling. In the amendment – "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" to save technical order on the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13129	Yes, instead of the letter “p, ” the letter “r. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13130	Yes, it is. It's about a taipa that was accidentally brought in. It is clear that it is the Republic of Serbia. Just to add that I really hope that we will have a debate and that through the debate on media freedoms, on the editorial policy of media services and Serbia and Vojvodina, we will finally give up that we are so carefully nurtured among ourselves, which makes us harm, which is a vengeful spirit between us. It's not revenge, it's co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13131	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13132	We are against the extension of this deadline because it practically supports the maintenance of the riots. The budget certainly provides for RTS funds, so that they have enough time to introduce order, so that we can then rebalance the budget and predict the funds. We heard an interesting interpretation of MP Djukanovic who said – if the budget is funded by RTS means that he is Vladin. That means that actually the money in the budget is Vlad's money. Well, to explain to the MP that the money in the budget is the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that citizens pay taxes, such as the tax imposed on citizens for RTS. And there's no government money, the government doesn't have any money, it only has taxpayers' money. Therefore, to say when something is financed from the budget then it means that the government will appoint directors and do other things, it is talking about the elemental ignorance of the situation and in fact who is sovereign in all of this. So, citizens pay taxes, the government doesn't have any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13133	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13134	The Serbian Dvori Movement supports this amendment and every funding of the public media service from the budget, because we believe it is of great national importance that we have our state television. We don't have a problem with the term "state television" at all. We don't see how such a public media service can be freed from a relationship with its own state. Of course, its funding is not by the government, according to MP Djukanovic, but by taxpayers, Serbian citizens who fill the budget from where RTS is financed and the part is not controversial, as well as certain RTS programmes, which we can discuss, in most cases are not controversial. As a large number of RTS employees, especially those with low incomes, cameramen and all others who work there very hard and serious and complex jobs, have very low incomes, are not controversial. It's a controversial editorial policy of the RTS information program, and that's what most of us are talking about here. The dispute is that RTS, or its editors, has served all regimes in the last 26 years. Today serves the interests of the SNS. Well, Minister Vukosavljevic painted what it looks like. Yes, the Assembly chooses REM, but not the Assembly, Mr Minister, but the ruling majority in the Assembly. Well, then that REM chooses the RTS board, so this RTS board controls RTS, which means the ruling majority controls RTS, so I understand your exposure. How come we here in the congregation can control him? How can the opposition control him? You want me to give you a specific example? I'm the head of the Devere Parliament Group. We became parliamentary after recently held extraordinary republican elections eight months ago. Not once in eight months, not one representative of the Dveri, nor I, has participated on any of the RTS shows, your Public Media Service, which you are defending here. What are you defending him from? From the truth about censoring the opposition? To serve the information program as he served Tadic's regime, that's how your regime is now? Well, those servicemen at the head of RTS are ideal servants, you've only taken them as good servants of new masters and it's time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13135	As long as we don't insult people who work in public service. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13136	No, no, only editors, Madam Chairman. I'm talking about editorial politics, not people. So RTS's editorial policy is servile and serves all the regimes, both in the previous and in this...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13137	I don't know, it kind of goes with people, not politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13138	Okay. So my conclusion is next. It is not disputed for us to finance RTS as a public media service and to produce content that is not commercial and necessary, from cultural-educated programs, historical programs, family programs and anything we cannot see on any other television that is dominated by reality shows. That's not controversial. A controversial information programme serves both the ruling regime and the previous and present. What can we do here? To ensure conditions for the opposition's voice to be heard on RTS. If no one from the opposition, from the leading opposition political parties, we all said that here, can appear at all on RTS, it wasn't Vojislav Seselj, it wasn't Sasa Radulovic, it wasn't me, it wasn't anyone from the opposition. What do we do now? Is this a public media service, Mr. Minister? Here, you be honest and take your word now and say – it's not a public media service, the opposition has to get its place in a public media service, and to check your honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13139	Minister Vukosavljevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13140	So let me just briefly look at some previous observations whether we have a media service. I repeat that we have and repeat that I am not defending any editorial policy. We're talking about a public service format here. The MP noted remarks and observations that no one is watching, that we are watching "Better Life", etc. It's a matter of taste, more or less, and it can also be debated. However, ratings show that the program is generally highly valued by our viewers. In most cases RTS programs, different programs, are very high in probes. That thing is undeniable, easy and clear proof. Therefore, the situation is not so tragic. What is seen here as a fill of lipstick, as a common point, can be assumed and concluded that dissatisfaction is present and from different directions to the editorial policy of the RTS information programme. But, please, gentlemen, we can't, let's just paint our faces and people's expressions, slaughter the ox for a kilo of meat. We cannot suspend or prevent or compromise the financing of the public service for next or 2018 because we are not satisfied with the part of the editorial policy of the information programme. There is an opportunity for this National Assembly here in the coming year, with various tools and possibilities, arrangements, etc., to agree on how to establish better or more efficient tools and mechanisms for monitoring and controlling the quality of the information program. I did not notice, except with Ambassador Krasic in one part when he spoke about some series, etc., that there are large remarks on the rest of the programme. Let's just tell the difference what we're talking about. I repeat, the ratings are high. Check it out. So we can't compare commercial television to public service. They don't have the same public role and don't have the same public responsibility. If we wanted to put everything on the market, such a debate would take us far away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13141	Time, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13142	So, the minister said one thing well. It is that the government chooses REM, REM chooses the Management Board, the RTS Management Board, but when it is simplified, it means that the government chooses RTS leadership. And you have RTS as it is. That sentence of yours that we can't slaughter the ox for a kilo of meat is completely pointless. What does that mean? No one's happy with the editorial policy, but we have nice jazz shows. Well, so as not to jeopardize the beautiful shows in the jazz, now we're not going to touch RTS, but we're going to give them four billion. Well, no. It's exactly the opposite. So, on the contrary, the editorial policy is that someone thinks he's a sacred cow and that he's independent, you know, that everyone here thinks he's independent, and on the other hand he's asking for funding from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that he doesn't think he has the obligation to account for the representatives of the same citizens in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a scandal. And the fact that you're talking about RTS still, as a public service, he's not. He doesn't meet the criteria so he can call himself that. As for the other so-called. public service to tv, they're even worse. What's that supposed to happen, for example? The leader of Serbia's second-in-command, SRS, will be invited to the TV show? Not to talk about any other of us, which I guess we should come to our turn after that. What's that supposed to happen? The public service can't ignore reality. Unable to ignore Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens have given their court and said how much time anyone has. One more thing, you say you will organise a special debate on RTS at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that dear ministers show that you still don't understand how this home works. Unfortunately, the way you think and how you should, that's not how it works. That debate will never be arranged, I'd like it to be, but it won't be. One more thing. When we talk about the editorial program, you say nice shows about jazz, the more jazz the less opposition, the more jazz, the less debates about the topics that live on, the more Serbian citizens live on and who really matter to them. Shows about jazz and a lot of other things, every honor to them, but from the reruns of "The Truck Man" and the beautiful jazz shows don't live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13143	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13144	Mr. Minister, it's a very bad decision. You are not responsible for this incredible position in which RTS was found, but this amendment only supports the politics that have choked the country. So we need to talk straight here about facts. The RTS budget is 80m euros planned. The state gives 35 million, 25 million comes from a subscription, the rest is RTS revenues. Why is RTS now in such a position as to lynch him, describing him as the television of the Yellow Wolfet, and others here in the opposition cite examples that are being denied. This is not what RTS asked for, so the price of the 2012 Vucic decision and the promise that was unsustainable is now being paid, that television subscription will only be lifted. What's she today, 150 dinars. If the television subscription was 300 dinars, and up to 800 was the option spoken of by RTS, RTS would be funded by citizens of the country and then we would have the right to ask some questions that are being asked here. Since you're maintaining this relationship, so you've prescribed what the subscription will be, not RTS, then the budget needs to be added. The point of politics. If we want to have a good national service, it costs. At this point, 80m euros. Tentative. Those 80m euros, conditionally, in projections, can be obtained through a subscription or can be made out of the budget, as it is done in England, then we should be English. I am not sure that we have the ability to do such a thing and it is true, if the government pays RTS, as Zarko Korać said, it indirectly produces the government's right to influence its editorial policy. It is unsustainable from the point of view of modern democracy that we in parliament are discussing an information programme, but since you are maintaining this state for the next two years, then there are assumptions about something like that. Personally, I'm not prone to that lynching. We chose a very complicated model, so now it's not even government television, I agree, let it be yours, fund it 100%, take responsibility. When I say yours, I mean Vladina. Let the government appoint the editor-in-chief if we think that's how we can function. If we want to go some other way, which we did before, then let's say it wasn't RTS that brought ourselves into this position, but it was the result of a decision that was made after some pre-election promises. We'll cancel the subscription -- that's what we've all always said, so we've been rolling around, charging our subscription over the numbers, so if someone's got two numbers in the house, then you don't know what to do, you pay both, so you won't pay, etc. So, with that demagogy, we have to break up. Good TV costs. The national service is needed, he has very clear self-financing projects provided we give him something like that. This amendment only maintains a poor condition. It won't do any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13145	Thank you. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13146	So, in part, we agree, you're just letting us get rid of the whole situation, because I think you're right when you say it would be good for citizens to finance the work of a public service. In order for citizens to finance public service work, they should single out at this point, according to some calculations, plus-minus 5% I'm going to make a mistake, about 330 to 350 dinars. Compared to 150, it's a big difference. Whether 350 dinars are much or not for Serbian citizens, it has been an opportunity to discuss themselves in this higher house several times over the past years. It is estimated, you are a politician, it is a political decision, that 350 suspected dinars are currently, given the different circumstances, perhaps too much. I, with a reserve, can access that attitude or you, it doesn't matter who, but it's generally assessed that way. So, I can't do both grandmothers and frogs. The people, or citizens of Serbia, cannot be burdened with 350 dinars, which is a lot for them and that someone else is then not paying public service. This is a compromise solution. If Serbian citizens pay out of their 150 dinar pocket, someone must make up the difference to 350. With this extension of the deadline and the adoption of this amendment, we have created preconditions that we have a format of relatively stable funding over the next two years, which does not prevent other solutions from being made during the observed period, and through a new media strategy, and through agreements and voting and the work of this Assembly in the coming period. The thing isn't, like, nailed, it's just a formal framework to make things work. Repeat, I don't see a third solution. Either the citizens will pay 350 if they decide it is reasonable and acceptable in these economic conditions, or the state will pay half of it. "Tertium non date" says, there is no third solution in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13147	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13148	When you start with this discussion, you can see when the contents are lost. Now let me get you back to square one. It was said by 31 December that partial funding from the budget and the end was made. Since 1 January 2017, there are no dinars from the RTS budget. It's a provision of the first law. The other law is for citizens, we're not going there, we're not mixing it. Now, let me explain one thing to you. Is it possible that we had a public service in the 1990s without being aware that we had a public service? Why? In the 1990s, Radio Television Belgrade was an institution compared to this RTS. In every respect, she was an institution, both as an enlightening, and as a cultural, and as an educational, and as a children's, fun, film, sports, whatever you want. It's a high standard compared to today. Since there's been a major dialectic here in the past few weeks about analog and digital, you seem analogous to us now. The world has changed, now the world is digital. Now we have that Rasim Ljajic spent 10m euros, so he pulled a transmission and connections from RTS, right? So he built a special public company, so now nine dogs in Serbia have transmitters, so he has that digital transmission, etc. Now that you're in your village, you plug in over that D2 and now you have seven, eight, ten, fifteen, twenty channels of what's in the offer. In these channels you can have national geography, you can have some travel, you can have history, you can have cartoons. You also have these, thank God, them-ha music whatever you want, you have rock 'n' roll, you have jazz. You can choose whatever you want on the channel, local, regional, or this national broadcaster. It doesn't cost you anything, but it costs you 150 dinars of RTS. Why, when is he one of the 25 in the offer? I'm not talking about this cable on purpose, because this is stealing. Imagine what the replacement is, monthly you give 1,500 dinars for cable and all consent, and for 150 dinars for RTS revolution rises here. It looks a little crazy. You're giving this one month's worth as much as a year's worth. But you've done it, not you specifically, but people from RTS and people who have four times set concepts of what public interest is, what public service is. But do you know how that question was asked? The directive says so and so. Oh, wait, guys, it can't live. No, we are going to the EU, and if we want to join the EU, this directive must. So next directive, then this directive, then advertising, then minutes, then this, that. All that stuff in, but that REM guy, that RRA guy, everything was there. There was a guess, to whom Abel would belong, so to whom would this channel, to whom would this frequency, what would this, what would it do? So, we got the RTS monster. I apologize to the people who work at RTS, but the monster, I mean management. They're octopus. You say we can't talk about the information program. Do you know, once under the old law, the RTS Management Board was elected by the National Assembly? No one else chose him, but the National Assembly. So there were programme councils, then editorial committees, and on the scale of how many parties would be present in the media. Now you have weather forecasts at 16.5 seconds in the morning, now you have state secretaries, no more ministers, now go state secretaries. You now have those pirates, that's what indigo, all the same, look, BBC school. You have a reporter there, not to tell what he's like, he's a BBC expert. He doesn't know how to talk into a camera, but RTS introduced him as a BBC expert. We've accepted the BBC type of journalism, and now everything is with us -- what my staging is, how this, how it is. You think some public service, four other TVs have reporters from every place in Serbia. Well, look at the morning program, the RTS is going out of Capco, it's going over here, we're going over there, and it's going to Pink from Capca and elsewhere. Pink has even spread, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, they don't care, they're flogging, they're working. Are they perhaps better public service than RTS? Just let them change their diction a little bit and get real journalists who know how to make reports, that's all. And you think that's all you learn on RTS? Well, look what's out there. But Pink doesn't cost us anything, Happy doesn't cost us anything. What would we be happy about with RTS now? You know what RTS looks like to me? Like when we choose members of the National Bank Council, the only criterion – he has a college. Now we need to give great enthusiasm, to faint from enthusiasm because we have a guarantee – he has a college, he has 10 years of work experience. It's the only thing that recommends them. You're doing a lot of damage, not specifically you, don't get me wrong, but in wandering this concept from 2003 to today, this RTS is destroying itself, it's experiencing a terrible erosion. Defending this RTS and saying it's the public service it's supposed to be is wrong. Remember, the media public services of European Serbia should be Serbian Serbia. Now, that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13149	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13150	It's a replica because there's one thing that's not true. A well-chosen word – not true. Namely, the RTS technology was not presented by Rasim LJajic, according to previous ministers, in particular Mladjan Dinkic, i.e. Jasna Matic. That's one fact that needs to be pointed out here. Furthermore, I wouldn't keep talking about some things, whether someone likes or doesn't like public service, whether it's professional enough, informative or not. You know, if you're talking about something, then you need to be grounded. I want a public service RTS and a European-oriented RTV, based on knowledge of my desire to have as little reality as possible. I want that kind of television, and as a citizen of Serbia, I'm willing to pay for that TV. Is 150 dinars a lot or a little? I'm willing to pay 350 dinars, because I want a quality public service television program, and that's what I want to point out. If we want European Serbia, we must also have European television. This is what we need to know and what Serbian citizens are for, at least that part of Serbian citizens facing the EU are very interested, and such citizens are very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13151	Are you still with the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: Yes. Don't make me guess. You will, won't you? The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go. The injury, what and who?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13152	You hurt Mrs. Gojkovic, and you hurt Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by giving the Minister the right to reply. I'll quote Article 104. - if, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended, stating his name, last name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. People's MP, the minister doesn't have that right. That was Article 104. Article 116 states – the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the order of the sitting shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the order of the sitting shall be of article 105, and shall, on the other hand, regulate the right to the replica by Article 104. Therefore, Article 116 cannot apply to Article 104 under any conditions. Therefore, the Minister in accordance with Article 158(7). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly shall have the right to report once, here, quote and so on – the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator of the law, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the fact that the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than three hours. Mr. Minister took advantage of it. Is that right? That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13153	It's all in line with Article 27, so I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you not to hold a session, it wouldn't be good for a dialogue between the ministers and the MPs. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Yes, I want the National Assembly to declare it. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13154	From the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to all these debates about our public service. I can totally agree that, because of the importance and role it has, it cannot only live on commercial activity, although it has and is financed partly from it and the most attacks were actually because of this, because the adoption of such laws endangers the independence of the national service, the information service. I would like, first fellow Members of Parliament to discuss finally proposing a sustainable public service financing mechanism. I'd really like to because I've only heard criticism about the information part of the public service. But no one suggested how really, in the best possible way to fund RTS. Now, we can all be dissatisfied, content, and when is independence threatened? Is one side satisfied, the other dissatisfied, or everyone content or dissatisfied? Here, I have reason to say that we, too, from the SNS, are dissatisfied with how to edit the RTS information programme, for example, you have to agree that it is certainly good news when the Serbian prime minister has a meeting with the president of the Russian Federation and that this should be the first news on our national, informative, public service. You know when she was? Just before the weather and sports checkup. So much for that. Those who earn -- terrible, to remind them, that the transfer of the Assembly has not occurred since the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic until September 2003. So, all of May, all of June, all of July, all of August, the citizens of Serbia didn't know what the National Assembly was doing and the MPs in it. So in the most brutal way, they endangered the independence of the public service and put it exclusively for political purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13155	Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13156	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, this is not where we judge good intentions. You're right when you say, okay, this is a solution that we're trying to tackle the existing situation, but this isn't sustainable. We're politicians, we have to make effective decisions. This only prolongs that decision. There are two principles. One is the budget, the government sets up the president and the board of directors, and that president and the board of directors elect the CEO, that's the BBC model. The second is the funding model through the subscription and through the system of independent institutions there is public service management. There's no such thing as a third time. With this solution, it's true, but it's still not a choice of RTS, it's our estimate. RTS is currently planning a fee of 150 dinars for the next year of 40m euros, nearly 25 from the budget and 20m from its revenues. Perhaps you were wrong to estimate that people will not pay 300 dinars of subscription, so that they can get an absolute public service that they know the government can't affect even when the government doesn't want it. If I were the government today, I would define myself as funding from the budget and take responsibility, but then it wasn't a public service, an independent institution, but it would be the government's credible institution. That's two parallel values we can talk about. This just delayed her decision. The fact is that here everyone is unhappy with the RTS information program, you can come to that famous conclusion, that there is still some balance. However, the people who run the service would remove it from this situation, they did not influence it except to say that they could not function without 80m euros in budgets, and at this point it is more than twice as much as the HRT budget and 50% less than the budget, for example, Slovenian television. So we know who it is, and there are costs less or more if we single out salaries fixed, equipment, international rights and so on. So what the RTS does in these circumstances still deserves respect here in parliament. I'm not talking about the editorial program. I'm just talking about survival.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13157	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Saša Radulović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13158	Thank you. I have to get the minister back to what he said, so there's no government money. There's no state money. When paid from the budget, the government does not pay, nor does the state pay, but is paid by taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it does not matter whether a subscription of 150 or 300 dinars is paid or whether VAT, excise, etc. is paid. in the budget, and out of the budget, they pay both citizens. So here's the question of how to finance RTS and it's not a question of whether the government is doing it, so that the government appoints a director or anyone, but they're both citizens. We think that citizens should finance RTS from the budget, so from all other budget revenues, that is, taxes that citizens are paying anyway, but to put order into the RTS, that we know exactly how much the programme costs, that we know exactly what the programming scheme is, because it also determines the costs. And, when we do that, the RTS can be financed from the budget. Independence is achieved by introducing into the law a formula to determine how much RTS should be given money each year. A formula that neither the Government nor the Assembly can influence without amending the Media Service Act. This achieves independence, so let's not falsify independence now by making sure that citizens pay a subscription or a fee through electricity bills, by God, we're making some independence, in fact we've only made one huge administration of a small fee. We draw practically money from the pockets of Serbian citizens who certainly pay through taxes. So it needs to be financed from the budget and if we need money, say, it's about 60 million euros, then it's projected by, say, reducing the waste of money, for example, on a 105m-euro Petrochemy that's much bigger than the entire RTS. So the government puts order in place, we don't throw money at incompetent party personnel in the public sector. We are not throwing money at incompetent public enterprises and then there is money to finance and public service, but one that is in the interest of Serbian citizens and where the order is introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13159	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. He's got a word for it, Professor. It's a bright step. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13160	Thank you. I'd just like to say some facts, since there's a wide conversation here. First, Europe, and here there are parties that are against going, Europe, a legitimate stance in the European Union, oppose it. Europe does not allow itself to be financed from the budget. If you don't believe my word, go to the websites. Bulgaria had it for a short time, it was warned. It's one quite idealistic idea, that every citizen, by paying taxes, either in another way, is financed by public service. Is that good? Is that bad? I'm just going to give an example, Austria, when it entered the EU, had only one state television, it was an ORF, surprisingly, it had no private television. She was forced to change the law. Today Austria has, of course, many commercial televisions. One of the things on the path of Europeanisation, i.e. on the way into the European Union, which is seen as media, what the media looks like, is seen and what television looks like. Now something to the opposition colleagues. I understand the anger of the RTS information program, but please don't shoot yourself. Some commercial televisions not only show opposition, but campaign against opposition parties. Be very careful with the praise of commercial television. I don't say all commercial televisions, but some of the most prominent leads directly to the campaign of dipping opposition parties. So, just leave the information to the political and commercial cells, so you can also... I'm not saying everything, please, I absolutely don't think all commercial televisions in Serbia are like that, but some of the most visible are. The argument made by the minister has some weight. The RTS program is being watched. That's the last thing I'm saying. I miss them, it's typical of our discussions not to base themselves on facts. He needed someone to bring in, that RTS could do with great ease, make one analysis here -- how much they have percentage programs of serious music, how much they have percentage educational shows, how much they have on average other shows that are non-commercial programs and that don't do commercial TV. So let's have a more logical conversation here. One tiny remark, this is precisely what this television that some suggest is about, practically, to be abolished, though, no one has said openly. Here's your transmission, these cameras and these people that do, they work on that RTS. Therefore, RTS is currently transferring this and we are being watched by Serbian citizens. Don't break over your knee the fate of RTS. He makes sense. What we're discussing here is how to be as independent and financially as possible in terms of the programme. It's for a serious conversation, it's not for breaking over your knee. My point was, I'm against the termination of public service, but I see a lot of problems. The main problem is, since there is not enough money, it has started to commercialise for years and public service. Unfortunately, he also occasionally has shows that I would never expect on RTS, because he simply doesn't have the money. The employees are paid pretty badly, they're late, and then they start making themselves some commercial program, which isn't really meant to be with them. Public service, still as it is, in principle, mutilated, poorly funded, poor employees' salaries, still performs some function in our society that no one else wants to perform, nor will. Therefore, you should keep it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13161	Thank you, Professor. Step. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13162	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Professor, don't be nervous. You're a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences. First you turn your back on me, now you gesture. Ladies and gentlemen, I am touched. I heard some commercial televisions are fighting the opposition. Let's say TV N1. To be honest, let's see what the opposition had until 2012. Imagine that Mr. Djukanovic was then the director of RTS. Would that be possible? Hardly. So, I'm listening to these complainers in a direct TV feed that the opposition claims they're not on RTS. So if there's a television broadcast and if there's an amendment debate, where the opposition usually appears, how come they're not in RTS when they're in direct transmission? Number two. I was touched, too, when the village's Stetchaevci found taxpayers filling their budget. However, he doesn't fill it, at least not ours or the American, but that finding touched me to tears. He almost found a hole in a pothole, so I advise the opposition to look at what the opposition had until 2012, and what they have now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13163	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13164	I don't see any reason anyone here is imputing anything that doesn't stand, which nobody in the opposition has said, which is to stop funding the Public Media Service. On the contrary, here we have invested a number of amendments to increase and in any other way secure the financing of the Public Media Service from the budget. All our remarks went exclusively towards the quality of an information programme in which the opposition is not represented properly. And that thing is very simple. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic can be pleased with RTS because he is a guest at RTS in agreement with Aleksandar Vukic as a false opposition. But...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13165	I won't let you insult me. I don't know what kind of opposition you are, but you can't insult the MPs or the MPs' groups. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What was the insult? ) It is not said what happened, but, please, what you said, it is said in my world – please excuse me, etc. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What was the insult? I do not allow it, regardless of anyone in the opposition or in the ruling majority, there is no offense. Would you like to talk about the amendment? I'm something flexible. Two hours, no one said anything about the amendment. I'll worry about myself, not you. Are you going to discuss the amendment or continue to insult fellow Members?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13166	Thank you. To clarify my opinion when I talk about a catastrophic RTS information programme in which I repeat, he has not hosted any leader of the opposition, or Vojislav Seselj, or Sasa Radulovic, or Bosko Obradovic, in eight months since the elections ended. That's not normal. But to be fair, we need to mention an informative editorial policy, for example, Radio Belgrade, which is completely different, which is very correct, very objective, which is very impartial. There are indeed shows in which you can see parliamentary or even extraparliamentary opposition. That, Mr. Minister, is a real example of editorial policy. And you failed my test of honesty. But I, like any student, give you a new chance. So, are you allowed to speak publicly to Serbian citizens that it is not a normal RTS editorial policy in which no opposition leader can appear on any of the shows for eight months? Is that so hard to say, Mr. Minister? If you're not ready to say it, then I doubt your good intentions. What media strategy are you going to make? What are you going to suggest to the congregation if you are not ready to say the most obvious truth that this is not normal? Is that not normal if three of the main leaders of the opposition can't visit RTS, not on any show, not on any show? What's that, what's that called?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13167	Regardless of your humor occasionally, when you say – the greatest leaders, you have to talk about the amendment. We talked for two hours and everything. You've spent all your time groupings. I don't mind, but a little bit about amendments so someone can understand what we're doing tonight. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13168	Madam President, there's no need to protect me from criticism. That's what Parliament is for. Is she offensive or not? Well, it's a characteristic of one who uses such criticism. I understood that no one here disputed the importance of the role of an independent media service. I'm just pointing to a problem that's being prolonged, and there's no solution. I'm afraid we'll get into a situation where we've brought in all the local media. We have applied the rule that the municipality, or the city, cannot be the founders of the local media, we have issued them on the market and thus killed media houses with a tradition of 60, 70 years in all of Serbia. This is what parliament is responsible for, not citizens, not employees of local media houses, but this parliament that adopted a bad solution. The same thing is happening to RTS right now. I don't doubt good intentions. I even like the situation in which there is such a strong consensus between allegedly politicians who are in completely opposing positions. Yellow, blizzards and me, frustrated to the same extent that someone else is frustrating the program that the opposition representatives mention here, quoting some of the allegations that are characteristic of commercial television. No need, I don't feel offended, it's such a pleasure that the obvious difference is expressed between me and the gentleman from Dvora.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13169	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13170	I'm going to talk about an amendment in terms of explanation, which is why he's controversial. I want to say two things that have been heard here several times in the last hour and a half. The first is, if I can replicate and ask the minister, the minister said there was a dispute or dilemma about whether we should have a public service or not. Minister, who in this assembly is on the other side of this dilemma? Who says we shouldn't have a public service? Who? (Dragan Vesovic, from town: Radicals. Radicals claim we shouldn't have a public service? I didn't hear that. We're talking about what kind of public service should be. We can't just go over it right now. When you talk about the character of public service, you don't question its existence. No one in this room, no party, no single person, has questioned the existence of a public service in today's discussion, not one. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. Korać unfortunately left, who claimed that someone in this room was talking about the commercialisation of public service. Who said anything about that? So no commercialisation is in question. That's why it's supposed to be a public service. So, please don't let us go round and round again with the thesis that no one has advocated in this room in today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13171	You don't have the right to say a word, since you've replicated it more than once. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13172	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike the professors, I didn't turn my back on him, and he did. I listened very carefully to his discussion, and I watched him closely for ten years. He, as a cobayage, has been an analyst for ten years, hasn't taken off central television, and I haven't been president of the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13173	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13174	I thank you, President. Here we have seen and heard a few discussions about whether or not we need a public service. I absolutely agree that we also need to agree with my colleagues, Pavlovic, that this service, as it is, does not need us. Mr. Minister stressed that we need a body that will evaluate the essence and content of the media. We have, as you all know, REM, also had a debate on members, or candidates for members of the REM Council. How can we expect public service to function and be objective, timely, true, if we have people in that body who don't even know how to list media laws? On the Committee on Culture, we had a conversation with a candidate who was a member of the REM Council, who even claimed to have gone to the point where he claimed that REM as a regulatory body does not have the obligation to supervise the work of the broadcaster, although it is also stated in the Law on Electronic Media, he identified the report with the advertising report. How can we expect public service to be objective, how will it inform citizens in due time, if someone in that body claims that this body has no obligation to control the content? We're just talking about content. In my amendment, which I have submitted, which is very controversial, you may have looked at its contents, I have submitted it precisely to insist that an adequate example be found from the modern media management that will be applicable to the public service. I've been in the media my whole life. I've been learning in the media my whole life, and I've always been fascinated when some of the media's biggest experts told me about media funding, a Serbian saying that says -- tied a horse where your boss tells you to. What does that mean? Whoever gives money, who finances the media, and as he asks, unfortunately, questions about editorial policy, and this cannot be the case when it comes to public broadcasting services, because then we come to manipulation of the media, we come to manipulation of citizens, and thus we prevent citizens from being informed in due time and to make intelligent political decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13175	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13176	Thank you, Madam President. I call for him not to be accepted, although there was no more detailed explanation of what was proposed. The explanation we received states that the proposal is what it is because the promoter believes that public service should be financed exclusively from taxis. If that means, that's what it says, the level of tax that exists is not sustainable. If it implies a higher level to be sustainable, it means addition. I don't think that's right, although this is a different explanation than what we were hearing orally today. To say, on the same side that insists it should be all the way through the budget, that's not good either. My colleague Korać is not here right now, but he stated why I agree with it, and it is indeed the attitude of our friends from Europe, but it is not surprising for me, ladies and gentlemen, to insist on what Europe disagrees with by an association that falsely presents itself as a movement, because their political position, I do not know whether you knew it or not, is to suspend European integration. It makes sense to me, but I don't agree, so it won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13177	The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13178	I thank you, President. We are primarily for this, it is in the Law on Public Media Services, that the state should absolutely come out of the media. There are countless reasons why it should be. So wherever you have, in any way affecting the state, you can absolutely count on manipulation, that there will be political and financial abuses of the media. What I have proposed with my amendment is to apply the absolutely modern principles of media management, that we can also learn from EU countries, from the Anglo-Americans, from whoever you want. For example, in Sweden, I will give just one example, their citizens have a huge degree of confidence in public service. Why is that? Because they know the public service is independent. They are absolutely informed on the basis of public service. Are any of us being informed solely on the basis of public service? Of course not. I don't know if you've read the report from the Institute of Social Sciences. It was published about ten days ago, where public service is said to be not fulfilling its role in informing citizens. They have several very useful, very good arguments. They say the way public service is reported is very courtship and similar to the 1990s, that there is absolute bias whenever the prime minister or member of the ruling party's activities are reported. Also, the Institute of Social Sciences said that current political functions are being maximumd during the pre-election campaign and during the reporting. I will pray that all their arguments are respected and the arguments that I would use when I defend my amendment, as well as when I defend the absolute right to free media, because without free media there is no free society, and that is what we all absolutely need. We all know that next year's elections are coming to us and I don't want to wonder what public service and reporting will look like and also the presence of other parties and their representatives in situations where we have absolute use and abuse of public service for political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13179	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13180	Thanks again. Although we have been given an additional explanation, I have to stay at the conclusion that I have already made, so in case this is who is represented and what are the contents, what is the relationship to political actors in general. Just in case it is, it is not bad to know that based on international research done by border-free reporters, Serbia has progressed on media freedoms and that we are more free today than many countries in the environment, and let that be your answer to the subject of content. So, better than the European countries in our environment, we are standing on this issue, and we all know that, we all know, it has nothing to do with this, although I am glad that the argument has gone aside, so it is no longer what we have heard from the representatives of certain political groups, it is no longer what we have received from this proposal here. The amendment, unfortunately, is just what it says, so I have to say it can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13181	The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13182	I thank you, Chairman. Once again, let me rephrase my colleagues and repeat some other arguments that are in favor of the issue that I have presented to my administration. So I've already mentioned a report that unfortunately we haven't seen, which should have been done by REM on the supervision of media service providers during the media campaign. Therefore, REM had an obligation under the Law on Electronic Media, as well as by its own statute, to submit this report and make it public. The election was eight months ago, and we haven't seen that report yet. I have reliable information that this report is far from over. Why didn't we see him? The report showed that contrary to all the rules issued previously by REM, mass abuse and use of current political functions for pre-election purposes occurred. I will mention a report by the Bureau of Social Research, or BRODI, in which we could all clearly see the percentages and representation of political parties during the pre-election campaign. I think that both the citizens of Serbia and those who are very few in the media can be aware of who has abused the most of their political functions, who abuses the political function of the day today, because that someone does not even leave the political campaign, or pre-election campaign...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13183	Be kind, about the amendment at least something. We're not discussing the Bureau's report right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13184	Of course. It is true, we are not discussing him, but he is just talking about that no opposition representative can appear on the public media service. Only one representative of a political party who is massively and roughly violates the political function it is in is dominated by a public-diffusive service.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13185	Please, about the amendment. I'm asking all the participants in the debate to talk about the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand that anyone complains that political parties aren't on TV, and they haven't even registered a political party yet. They don't even have a political party. That's one thing. Second, calling someone there as someone politically abuses their position, that someone doesn't have a mother at the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13187	Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13188	We have just submitted this amendment to show that we care for the safe long-term financing of the Public Media Service in the next few years or, as indicated by this amendment, by 2020. So we have no problem understanding the importance of the Public Media Service. We have a problem with the absence of any political vision by the ruling party, the Serbian Progressive Party. Because if you say you'll never cut your pensions, so cut them down, if you say there won't be a tax, and then you introduce a fee as a subscription to RTS, that means you don't have a policy, or that you're breaking your pre-election promises. We have no problem with all Serbian citizens financing an independent public media service in the perspective of the subscription. But why would they do that when this public media service is not independent, when it has no independent information policy, or editorial policy for an information programme? For example, the voters of the Serbian Dvori Movement, give me one reason why they would pay a subscription to Serbia's Radio-Television, when in Serbia's information programmes, they can never see representatives of the political option they vote for, if they can't see their representative on any political show on RTS? Why would they pay the subscription? Why? They want to pay a subscription for a public media service that is objective to all policy options. When I say objective, do you, the advances, have 50% in the election? Here, let's have 50% of the information program, but you can't have 100% of the information program. Let's have 1%, but we have 1% on the RTS information program, and we don't have one percent. Because, eight months from now, we haven't visited once on Serbian Radio-Television. And how many times has Alexander Vukic been visiting and how many times have SNS representatives been visiting and how many minutes have Alexander Vukic appeared in the RTS Journal? So, it's a very simple thing – we don't want to pay a subscription and a fee for advanced public media service. We want an independent media service, on which the voice of the opposition can be heard, and then we are ready to pay for such objective and impartial journalism.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13189	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13190	Thank you, President. We have submitted an amendment that instead of the deadlines on certain dates, we see that the government has also given up its proposal, from one year to two years, has not accepted the proposal for four years, so we are in one market, we say: "until the end of the reason for the partial financing from the Republic of Serbia's budget to carry out the basic work". Because that's the point we need to talk about. And that's what I think we're having a discussion about in the last two hours. So, this member, who is changing now, who was first supposed to be valid for a year, will now appear to be valid for another two years and essentially giving up the established declared Public Service of Serbia, which is independent of the government and the executive power and should be financed exclusively from the subscription paid by all Serbian citizens. It's the essence of the law. And it's not true, I don't agree with the arguments they say - the RTS leadership has nothing to do with it. It was a year and a half since July 2014, when the law was passed, until the beginning of this year, to prepare for the introduction of a subscription, to come up with a way to make a campaign for which citizens should trust and pay their subscription. It didn't do any of that. And then the government came and made a Solomonian solution. That's when it's said -- here, a year you'll pay only 150 dinars, we'll give the rest of the money out of the budget. It's been a year. Nothing happened again, and we're back on the same point - how we're going to proceed. And since no one has a solution, no one has done anything, we are now extending it, firstly, to the government's proposal originally for a year, and now for two more years, without talking about how we're going to get out of this, whether the public service is going to do the right thing, if there is to be a public service, independent of the executive government, or if we're going to make a state television that's going to be paid out of the budget and that will directly correspond to the government. But no, the government is continuing and pro-longing this situation, because it's clearly politically appropriate to her. Because we are having a discussion here – we are dissatisfied with the opposition because, of course, no one can ever appear in the RTS information programme, nor in regular information shows, journals and other shows, nor in these other shows that should develop political dialogue. On the other hand, the representatives of the SNS are dissatisfied, as Vukic did not appear in any diary for the first four and a half years but in the other 10 minutes. Once out of 1,500 days, and this is an example of how RTS is not reporting properly and should be state television. We don't have that dialogue. We had, and when the law was passed and the media strategy was adopted and there were, unfortunately it wasn't the minister who was then, full of big words, and now the minister has passed, it was very interesting to me, that we would adopt a new media strategy soon. So, everything that predecessor announced as the best solution in the long term, how it will fix Serbia's media scene, how it will prevent censorship and self-censorship -- no, it's not good, which we have indicated is not good. Now we'll have something new. When? We don't know. Obviously, the minister has found here and the ruling majority, let me say, one good solution by taking instead of a year now two years to do the job, and I can tell you that you should have taken our solution, because our solution is unlimited, because it speaks of the termination of the conditions that brought us into this situation. Our intention was to adopt such a solution, that when another more responsible government comes to create these conditions within the shortest time and RTS to work on, to run a campaign to let citizens know why they are paying this subscription and to pay it because their interest is that they have both a good cultural programme and an educational programme that exists and an informative programme in which the views of all political forces in Serbia are represented, and that today there are no and how things are now, with such changes to this Media Service Act, will not soon be.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13191	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13192	A few words about the media strategy. I don't know exactly what you had in mind, but the media strategy expired on 1 January 2016, so the need for a new media strategy is imposed. I don't know what's confusing you in that simple fact. The previous media strategy, honourable MP, lasted from 2011 to 2016, which means it expired on 1 January 2016. The deadline's up. It is necessary to adopt a new media strategy. Generally known circumstances in which you are referred will easily explain that this year there have been elections, some circumstances etc. We will bring a media strategy within a very short few months of today. I still don't understand what's confusing you about it, so you're making a situation out of it that's caused by some political conspiracy or hunting in a blurry one. There's no strategy. It's supposed to be. It's simple. It's very simple. Now you're not listening to me, and you've taken advantage of the opportunity of being on a direct TV broadcast to make estimates that are in some way comical or the consequences of not understanding the clear situation. About that. As for your amendment, you know how, you've been given an explanation here. It's just, in the laws of this guy, there's got to be some kind of deadline. You are entering a maximum degree of uncertainty - until the reason is no longer valid. It's the same thing. This is more concrete and applies to two years, and this can be changed over two years if some new circumstances occur or cease to be valid for reasons. Your amendment is more abstract and indeterminate, and therefore less precise and therefore less logical and good. It's very simple. I was just about to say, if it's an opportunity now, for one grade, not to personalize that someone here has failed, has failed a moral exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13193	Time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13194	That's not a good message, dear honourable MP, to introduce the categories on whose moral exam he failed. We're not talking about the editorial concept of RTS here, we're talking about other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13195	Thank you, Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13196	Of course we're talking, because the editorial policy of every media depends on the source of funding. And the private media has a certain editorial policy that is in the interest of the owners of these media. It should not only be in the interest, since they too carry out public interest activities, but a measure of the owner's interest is allowed. The essence of the public service is that all public service owners are citizens and should be in the interest of all citizens. We don't have that, the government has changed the essence of the law, this particular member, providing a significant part of the budget funds, and thus being the owner of the public service, the government, the executive power, and that's how it behaves, and that's why we have the editorial policy of the information program, above all, the kind we have, where there are no representatives of the opposition. Turn on your diary now at half-eight p.m., you'll see what a diary looks like, how long the representatives of the government have, and how much time the opposition's representatives have. In this transmission, which may or may not be going, I don't know, I can't watch the transmissions, I'm sitting here in the hall, it's being paid, it's being paid from the Serbian Parliament's budget every month. So it's commercial and it should never be broken by any other program, which RTS does. So he shouldn't break up. I'm criticizing the government just because there's no clear concept of whether they want public service or whether they want state television. You're using this now, because then we're listening to attacks on RTS's policy -- he wasn't once prime minister in the first 10 minutes, terrible, and 1499 days he was, it doesn't matter, and none of the opposition's representatives were ever in 1500 days, it doesn't matter. Well, it's got something to do with it, and we need to talk about it. I see no excuse for you to tell me on 27 December 2016 - the media strategy expired on 1 January. Who's to blame for not bringing in a media strategy for a year, and what's guaranteed that you'll bring in what you say? I'll tell you - and next year there will be elections. So, in a few months, there will be elections again and you will not bring up a media strategy again, and you don't need a media strategy, because the media in Serbia doesn't exist. So, the local media were shut down or purchased by SNS officials, as funny as that is to you. Look at what local TV and radio stations look like, as exclusive SNS services, and this is the result of the media strategy that you have implemented, not until January 1st, but by today, December 27th, and you'll obviously be doing it for a very long time, because we're coming up with elections and you won't bring it in the next few months, as you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13197	The first amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13198	Thank you, President. We have submitted an amendment, identical, practical, as well as a colleague, Komic. The amendment was accepted, so I wouldn't discuss it very much, but what's really going on here. Mr. Minister, everyone agrees, and you as a representative of the government and representatives of the ruling parties and the opposition, that something is wrong and that something should be done, but somehow, if I may say so, that political pimble and transfer from perhaps MPs less than you -- so come on, you suggest how it should be done, you've now discussed the strategy. So it's your duty, if you agree that something is wrong, to suggest what needs to be done and what needs to be done as soon as possible. Why did we propose this amendment? Because, and this is a temporary solution, except we extended it from one year to two years. Are we going to do something in that longer term, can you say that, other than we're going to get a strategy, and is this strategy going to be an exit strategy for this situation that we're in, what's going to happen next? Someone will always choose public service management bodies, and it will always be the majority in some way, whether it will be done directly by the Government in some funding concept, or whether it will be done by the regulatory body, indirectly by the Assembly through the regulatory body, by the assembly majority. So nothing new is going to happen, but more needs to be done on how this system, i.e. the service, should function and introduce a system of responsibility, and the rules include, some fellow MPs have spoken about it, the rules also include the budgeting measure, so the kind of costs, the cost measure, the number of employees, etc. Representatives of the government, the top officials attacked daily workers after Brazil, etc. Look, today you're talking about RTS management, and you should be informed about the wages of the people who work on the installation, who work on similar jobs, very low wages, humiliating. As far as the current situation is concerned, the current situation is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13199	You've exceeded two minutes 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13200	Just one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13201	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13202	Dear citizens of Serbia, I will start with the next finding. On Friday, I spoke here in principle on the same subject, so I was talking about RTS, taxis, funding and what conditions should be financed. So I repeat once again, the public service needs to be financed, the only question is under what conditions, or what should it offer in return. I spoke for about six, seven minutes in total, half of my presentation was interrupted by RTS and released by commercials. It's a fact that there's no dispute. Now let me tell you what I suggested in this article. So, I suggested that in return for RTS, so if he wants to get the extra amount of funds he needs to get, in return, he should allow transparent business. My amendment consists of three additional positions that say the public service has an obligation to systematise all jobs within six months of the adoption of this law and publish it on the Internet presentation. We need to see how many people work there and whether there may be some sectors in the public service where there are more employees of the net that need them, and in some cases there are less employees than there should be. Public service is a public matter, so it should be public. The second position – public services are required to carry out a list of all assets, all debts and claims from third parties within six months of the adoption of this law. We need to know what the public service has to do with. When you look at the balance sheet, you can't see it. You can see the total amount of value of the property, but you don't see how much public service actually owns the value. The third thing – public services are obliged to place on the website all scanned contracts that provide some services or request some services from third parties as part of the publication of their annual reports, balance sheets and balance sheets. That's real transparency. If the public service wants to be funded, and it needs to be financed, then it has to operate so responsibly and transparently.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13203	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear professor, who has turned his back on me right now and hastily left the hall, I must say I don't understand this amendment, since the motionary regrets that he wasn't on public service televisions, regardless of what I've been doing in politics since 1990, I haven't been on RTS once, and if my party has been at least five or six times parliamentary, unlike a professor who doesn't have a political party at all. So, they entered the government, the ministry, made an association in the ministry, and now through that association, they want to come back, and if for 10 years he hasn't taken off of RTS and other central televisions as a political analyst, and with them from analysts to politicians is a very short period. Also, I can't understand that he's complaining, I guess for Friday, when his speech is a little short. For the full truth, my dear professor, it should have been said that my speech that went behind it had never been broadcast at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13205	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13206	Thank you. To return to the essence of the amendment, since it is obvious that this MP's job is to turn away from the topic and attack the MP's group enough is enough, trying not to mention our name, and as it is, it's okay, and we don't get replicas. So, the point is transparency. We believe that public service should be funded by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We think it should be from the budget and by the formula that we define exactly how much RTS needs to get the money. But it takes total transparency to know exactly how many employees they have, what job systems, to know who gets the money, who gets the services, how many jobs, etc.? Full transparency. So without it, we are really talking about things that are very important, where we are asking the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to separate the money for funding services that are in their interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13207	The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13208	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. But to colleagues who try to influence this way, I advise them to roll their sleeves, win the election, win the power, and then change everything completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13209	The word has been given by the MP Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13210	I thank you for this unnecessary advice. To repeat, we are looking for full transparency, it is about money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This election thing has nothing to do with it, and these discussions are inconclusive. So it must be total transparency if someone is looking for money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and of course, the public service should be financed from the budget, but under the condition of fully clear accounts, full transparency.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13211	The word is from the MP Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a proposal, and I would like to have the motion that we should push it into bankruptcy and transfer RTS to the private firm of the bankruptcy manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13213	Member of the 2nd Amendment in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Zoran Zivkovic, together by Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and together by MPs of the DS group. From the authorized, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13214	We asked to delete this amendment, that is, this article, as well as the previous and here is a longer debate on this Bill on Amendments to the Law on Public Media Services, and none of the participants in this debate convinced us that the public service as it is deserves to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of public service is not a public service, it is a television that uses the national state frequency, which is in the service of Davenport, Scott and the ruling regime. And I don't think anyone can argue with that. There were comments from colleagues here who, of course, would not mention anyone, because I don't want to cause replicas, colleagues who complained that they hadn't been on RTS in a long time, and I remind you that during the election campaign, only Serbian radicals were not on any show. Everyone else was also the ones that Scott brought to the Assembly and some even before they submitted the candidate list. We often hear that Prime Minister Vukic complains that he is not enough on RTS, and he is making special shows, special show "Eye", special "Requestor", so he is there in shows like Cassandra and I see no difference between these and them regarding public service. What we want to remind the public service that in two and a half years since Vojislav Seselj came from The Hague, no show has been on public service. Since 12 November 2014, when he arrived, nor on 31 March this year, when he was given an acquittal on all counts. During that period, RTS produced five or six shows to talk about Seselj, which spoke of his judgment, all were able to attend, everyone could talk about it, but not Seselj. They were saying what kind of lawyers, which some analysts and quasi analysts, teachers respected, not respected, I don't know who he was, just wasn't Vojislav Seselj to talk about how he beat The Hague tribunal. This is about us Serbian radicals, however we understand and understand it is one of the basic reasons why we claim that RTS must not be financed from the pockets of Serbian citizens. We'll talk about this second bill, but now we're talking about the budget. What did RTS deserve to be financed from the budget and called a public service? And the fact that it's still being extended to him, so Wolfie thought he'd say we'd extend it to them in another year. So then he told you to extend for another year, you extended. How long will he be on that... . Yes, Minister, that's how it works, we know, we're not since yesterday. We know that's the way it is. But it's not right and it's not the interest of Serbian citizens. That's the point. That's why we suggested that by eradicating one and the other members, in fact, this law disappears from legal traffic and that the public service no longer gets. You know, the other day there was a show about presidential candidates. One of those Olja, the Bujkets, was Kovacevic, one of the guests said Vojislav Seselj will be in the second round of elections, and she says – please, Vojislav Seselj, can you bet on it. She's about to open the women's bookies. He says, "I'll remember what you said, and I'll call you after the election." Is that a public service? I don't care who she's rooting for, but she can't talk to a public service like that. That's why they can't get a single dollar. Because of the oil of one, the oil of the other, the buket and the rest. I'm sorry about these people who work minimum wage, it's the largest number. It is a handful of those who manage, who do not pay them, and who do not work in the interests of Serbian citizens. One absolutely and completely anti-Serbian television.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13215	Thank you. I am obliged to read you an RTS announcement saying that the false allegations were one MP, that they were playing commercials through his speech. The director's report has – there are no commercials during congregation transfers, there were never any. I owe it to the public to read this statement of theirs, because we spent the entire afternoon dedicated it to their program. So no commercials during congregation transfers, sponsors don't invest in us, obviously. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13216	This is the second amendment that we have submitted to this brief proposal for amending and supplementing the law. Today we had the opportunity to talk about the law amending the Law on Public Media Services, we're talking about everything, just not what's the point. We have a deep misunderstanding about what public service should represent. What is a public service, what is its role and what is the role of all of us? What is the role of executive or any authority in relation to public service? Much more dangerous than I think we have a complete misunderstanding of what public service is, how much we should keep it, how much we help it, doing everything to make it independent is the intention, the tendency that we have today had to hear from fellow SNS MPs, primarily, who are looking at several dangerous thesiss, which are much more dangerous than mere misunderstanding. At first, we had legitimate political ideas today, that Parliament should absolutely not choose REM members, but rather not be properly appointed by the government. It's a tendency to rely on everything that's been handled by executive authority. I have to let you know, the colleague who said that isn't here right now, but the way we choose REM members is literally that the government, through a flow water heater. The collapse of institutions, the collapse of procedures that are being looked at in the way we chose REM members is exactly that. It's just a party posting from similar people from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Second, the incredible thesis was winning gentlemen in the election, so then you have a public service that suits you with a dangerous thesis that also has its confirmation in this bill. Today, we've had complaints about how much the prime minister was or wasn't or was in certain approaches to the central journal RTS, five years of a journal that wasn't in that second by the SNS feeling, when he should have. Today we talked about everything but the essence. The point is, two and a half years after this law was passed, we have a constant of a prolonging policy that has several consequences. The provisions of the Law on Public Media Services have not been applied for almost a third year. Then we had a statement from the prime minister saying his pre-election promise to cancel the subscription. That's why we brought it in, Minister, I have to remind you, you weren't a minister at the time, but you're inheriting the condition for which you're responsible and what you're designing when you're talking about a media strategy, you have to keep in mind everything that's happened since then, then we had the Law on temporary tax control, which is practically a legitimateity specialis, because it's completely contrary to the Law on Public Media Services. We have this tendency to continue the continued control of the government's public service. So we have incredibly hypocritical statements about saying, yes, we have reduced the tax to 150 dinars and the rest of the government's salaries. The government does not pay, it is also paid by Serbian citizens. This tells you someone who was a regular payer for a RTS subscription. I think it's a good model and I think it's our common interest, not ours, but every citizen and every citizen, that we have a quality public independent service. Not only because of the need for an objective and timely information program, but it's the only space where we can hear something more, something of educational content, something of cultural content. It is the interest of every citizen and citizen and it is, if you will, the interest of a democratic society, to have a free and independent public service. Finally, I have to look back on a really rather embarrassing and hypocritical explanation that you will not transfer to citizens and, behold, the government will decide on what the amount of taxis will be, although it is an absolute violation of the Law on Public Media Services, because 150 dinars is optimal and given the economic situation of citizens, and you are doing so at the same time as you cut their salaries, pensions and raise taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13217	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13218	Thank you. I have submitted two amendments to this bill, both in the same text – deleted. Why? Because I believe that the solution to the problems of the Public Media Service that we have can no longer ask for in the extension of deadlines. It's high time someone sat down, rolled up their sleeves and found a solution to the problems that haven't happened since yesterday, that existed long ago. For five years, the ruling majority had the opportunity to start solving these problems. Instead of doing so, she only extends her deadlines by retaining the status quo. Why? Because it suits the status quo, and especially considering the fact that one or two pre-election years are ahead of us, and perhaps three pre-election years, thus maintaining financial control over the Public Media Service is more appropriate to this ruling majority than to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13219	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13220	We have two subjects. One is funding, and the other is editorial policy. About funding, these four billion, plus six billion as much as you get from a TV subscription, almost three and a half million times 150 dinar, that's about six billion. And another two billion would have to be the possibility that television itself could make money. That's about 12 billion. That's about 100m euros. It's not a little money at all. That's one thing. It needs to be financed from the budget, because it's more natural, more normal, simpler. It does not provide or reduce the freedom to inform citizens, but it provides material security and these people who work there and the cameramen, who happen, say, to have some lunatic come to them and yell at them for communicating with the directory during live shows. God didn't let that happen. Serbia's government must be a guarantee of RTS's objectivity, it was called state television or public service. To make an independent body that will guarantee it, forget it, it takes tradition. This is where the government has to be guaranteed. Therefore, if you think television should be objective, the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Information should say – I guarantee, it is my obligation, my honor and my face is that it should be right. Finally, look at the 1976 film "Netrek" or "TV Network", the American film, so it will be much clearer to you about what's going on, but definitely TV will be normal and objective...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13221	You only have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13222	One more sentence. ... when you see duels of government and opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13223	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13224	Minister, you could see once again how powerful RTS is. RTS issues a statement and immediately gets the right to reply and to be read directly in the National Assembly, and we no matter what we say, no matter how many statements we write, we cannot appear on RTS. That's why we're protesting. So RTS is not a public service, those with public service don't have any touch points. So you know who edits RTS. There are other TVs that are commercial, but it's a big mistake to say that they can do whatever they want. They can't, they're using a national frequency. It's a public good, and whoever uses it must also do it according to professional ethics, but it's certainly the responsibility of RTS, which gets a huge amount of money from the budget, it's incomparably bigger, and that's why we've fallen to them the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13225	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13226	Just for a little while on some of the previous points of view. So, I don't want to teach you lessons, I'm not invited to do it, but use the expressions that someone's explanation is shameful and hypocritical, it's an awkward discourse. When that thing comes back to you like a boomerang, you're out of line. Therefore, if we are to cultivate a culture of speech, a culture of dialogue, controversy and disagreement, then I would appeal, nothing else, just to appeal, to express the type in a shameful and hypocritical way relatively restrictively, because it will not lead us anywhere in mutual dialogue. It's just an appeal. I don't know how you came to the conclusion that I'm defending an editorial concept of RTS. Here we stand only for the clear principle of funding for the minimum of sustainable conditions in the next observed period, and how it is implemented, who regulates and how the programme of the Public Service, the honourable MP, is regulated by the regulations that exist in this country. This National Assembly chooses the regulatory body chosen by the board of directors, which we have already talked about. We can only play on the ground and with the rules that exist, and whether those rules are good, we can really and should open a debate. Now let's not use that time now, when it comes to providing a minimum of funding, because it's illusory to say why regulations are the way they are now, because that's not the subject. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13227	There's no replica, you got the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13228	Just that I'm responsible for a respected minister. You're convincing us it won't take even a year, but you'll pass those laws in a shorter period, you said a few months. (Vladan Vukosavljevic, from the city: Strategy. No, you told me about these funding laws. But let's go back to the other thing, as far as you know, and as far as your government knows what it's doing, it also says that you're passing a law in which you extend by one year, and then you accept the amendment of the opposition MP where you extend it by two. So on the amendment of two members you have one accepted. That shows you're changing your mind about how the wind blows. There's no strategy, there's no plan, let's do it today, you're behind the solution today that it's a year, and tomorrow it can be two. We could've done three, then, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13229	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13230	Thank you very much. And these proposals, just like those of the previous ones that include erasing members of the law that speak of entry into force, I don't think they should be accepted and it has anything to do with accepting amendments from the opposition when they're good. Whatever's good, it should be accepted, and I agree with that. So, this has nothing to do with it, just like it doesn't have to do with any of those who have suggested that all funding goes budgetally, so that it doesn't go budgetally at all, but only through a fee, so eventually they come up with a third variant and now they're talking again about the need to budget, and they're proposing to delete a complete law that says -- part of the budget. It has nothing to do with it, and at least it has to do with those who claim themselves unable to conduct a competent debate. I agree, they're not, but that's no reason to accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13231	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13232	I'm very amended active. I have submitted here a change requiring this law to come into effect earlier, because I meant that my previous amendment would be accepted, in which transparency is required, so what the Government proposed was that the law enters into force one day after publication in the Official Messenger. I suggested that it enter into force on the same day after the publication in the Official Messenger, so that the public service would get more time to prepare as soon as possible for the introduction of the principle of transparency, or for all documents, all contracts that would be placed on the site so that citizens who paid for that public service could see what they were paying for, right. So I thought one day would be good to add extra time. Unfortunately, neither the previous amendment nor this amendment was adopted. I just want to repeat once again the principle on which this previous amendment lies. Citizens pay for their money public service, whether they pay it through taxes or through taxes that go into the budget, and then the budget pays for the public service. That's completely irrelevant. Citizens pay public service and public service is required to then report to those citizens on how they spend that money. The same should be done by the government, local self-government, all who use citizens' money to provide them with some kind of service. Our main problem in this country is that all the users of the state budget, or taxpayers' money, do not respond, do not submit to citizens an adequate report on how they spend that money. That's the main problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13233	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13234	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished professor, I will vote in favour of this amendment, but it is not my fault to honor the professor. Last time he got confused and told a lie, as you say so, but he told the truth that during the broadcast, commercials went through him. From 1998 to 2000, the senior MPs know, the only MP who didn't have a tone was me. 27 times. There are senior MPs here who remember. Dear viewers, you who later joined the program, usually the speaker covered my tone while I was an MP from 1998 to 2000. And I also have to point out to Professor Pavlovic that if I vote for his amendment, and he asks to be provided with a regulation to present parliamentary parties. They are not a party, they will not be, so if I vote, he is a professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences, a respected professor, then he will be guilty of not having him, and he himself has suggested that it be the representation of parliamentary political parties, and he is just an electoral list and association of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13235	Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13236	Just for a little while. You may have accidentally entered a subtle paradox. Here's the thing. What is the point of the amendment that the opposition is proposing to some laws, to remind the government or those who decide on it, that they may have missed something to notice, that there are some gypsies of solutions, some finer ones that have been missed, and when it is accepted as such, you are wondering, and when it is rejected, you are calling again and saying, "an block" you reject all of our amendments and you are devising the institution of giving amendments. I just wanted to say that there's nothing wrong with it, in principle and in principle, that some amendment is accepted, because it's estimated to represent a shade of a more skillful solution than what was originally imagined. You must agree with that principle deeply, intimately, I suppose, but you're criticizing what this subtle paradox is I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13237	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13238	Mr. Minister, you're right. There's nothing wrong with stopping funding anti-Serbian RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13239	Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13240	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all like to express my great satisfaction that RTS, who in a few minutes has denied the opposition MP, Mr Pavlovic, has not denied at any moment that eight months after the election, no opposition leader has hosted any political show on RTS. Something I didn't hear from RTS, which means we've been telling the truth all along and it's really pro-government and regimeal public media service. On the other hand, as regards the concrete amendment, in the statement of the Government which rejects this amendment stands - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by the law's entry into force, on the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", the amendment would move the payment of the January war, which could call into question the main activity of public media services. So, not by this amendment, but by your actions, by your delay, your incompetence is being questioned by the financing of the Public Media Service, and this amendment fills the basic issue of publication in the "Official Messenger" and the date of entry into force of this law. So this is what we wanted to show how late you advances are, and most often you're more of a buttocks than advances. In that sense, I would draw attention only to the end that I was not talking about any moral exams, but about the test of honesty, because if the minister in charge of culture and information cannot bear the courage and say that there is no public media service that is objective if he cannot be visited by any leader of the opposition, then that minister, I don't know how he can be a minister of culture and information, and what we can expect from him in a new media strategy, when he can't, here's the third time I ask him to say he's unobstructive and that an incorrect public media service in which the leader of the opposition can't host for eight months after the election. You failed that test of honesty, Mr. Minister. (Dusan Pavlovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13241	How's the replica? In Article 2. The bill, the word "sequential" is replaced by the word "eight". Can you talk about the amendment? So now, to every mention of the name, it's a game played by the opposition amongst themselves. He said this one before me, then the replica. Does he want you on the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13242	It is well-presiding that you deny this right to the representatives of the opposition, and you always give representatives of the ruling majority the name or the party's replica. That's really good. If the editorship or management of RTS is indeed claiming that it did not interrupt my presentation on Friday, playing commercials, and then after that direct TV broadcast of water polo matches, I ask them to invite me to some news show to talk about it live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13243	What you said for me is just as much as you said we were interrupted by commercials. So it's my pleasure. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13244	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I propose that we do not accept the proposed amendment because, as the government representatives have said, as such an amendment would certainly move towards the payment of the January war, and that would disrupt everything further. But why did I answer? I am very patient and patient when I listen to such amendments from colleagues. Normally, you have the right to suggest such a thing, and to defend what you suggest, however, what it is. When the proposal comes from the so-called so-called. representatives of the new way of political charlatanism, let me say it in Serbian, a new wave of political charlatanism that the amendment proposes only to perform its political propaganda, not to improve the law, and all of this is seen when their amendments are better analysed where they all come down to one date moving, say, from the first to the 15th, or from the 15th to the thirty-first, or something that should last for a year lasts six months. So it's completely pointless. The aim is to devise the bill but to get a chance to talk about it, to insult other parties, as he insulted SNS representatives this time. Then what do we come up with? We come to the abuse of this congregation. There's a pay phone being abused. We're having a discussion at all. In short, I suggest that this and similar amendments, the type - be deleted, not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13245	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments proposed by MPs on the amendment of the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović, together Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, joint MPs of the Dveri group, together with MPs of the Democratic Party, and together Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13246	If someone is watching this through a public service, to know that the topic of this amendment is that the fee for a TV subscription, whose payment deadline expires on 31 December of this year, should be extended until the end of next year. It's those 150 dinars you pay, dear viewers, watching, watching, not looking, if you have more numbers, for each count of 150. It is a very bad measure, and I have fought against it long ago, there in 1996, at some winter protests, I have asked for the suspension of that fee and I have already said today and I will repeat, at the first session of the government, almost the first, second decision of the government of Zoran Djindjic was the abolition of the TV subscription. And while Serbia had a normal government, there was no TV subscription, it means at least until March 2004. There is no need to tax the citizens of Serbia in this way. We have, in front of the public service, other more important things or at least as important as the National Museum. Well, we're not paying a subscription to the National Museum. Well, some galleries, some other cultural institutions. It needs to be financed from the budget, with an exact amount. There's no guesses, because when you bring a budget and it's written there ten billion or five billion or I don't know how many, say, ten billion for RTS, it's the law and no one can deny that right that's determined by the budget. I repeat, freedom of expression, professionalism is achieved by inviting a representative of the government, let's say, Prime Minister and someone from the opposition, to talk on a live show, which hasn't happened in the last five years, and I'm afraid it won't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13247	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13248	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, any payment of the subscription by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be deleted, because that only fills the amanet of his Majesty, Alexander Vukic... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13249	He mustn't be offended. The commercials must have hung up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13250	I was really trying to make a little joke about why I wouldn't want to be the legitimate heir to pre-election promises and SNS ideas, because SNS and Aleksandar Vukic made it clear in their time, you probably forgot that there would be no subscription to RTS. Then of course you returned your subscription to RTS, but you're not calling it a subscription, you're calling it a tax. Now we're all kind of stupid and we don't get it. So here's the thing very simple. What is the point of the RTS tax if the opposition's representatives cannot be seen on RTS, if there is no interaction between the authorities and the opposition, if there are no direct TV duels? It's a very simple question. Is it possible that in the last five years Alexander Vukic has not visited any direct TV duels? What kind of media freedom is that? Is that media censorship or what's it called? What would we pay for that? What would we pay for the direct transmissions of an extraordinary press conference for Alexander Vukic that lasts 50 minutes? It doesn't occur to me to ever pay a subscription to RTS to watch extraordinary press conferences for Alexander Vukic. Excuse me, why isn't RTS transferring an emergency press conference to Dverry, not 50 minutes, five minutes, two minutes, 30 seconds, how much are we, as you say, smaller than you for supporting the electoral body? But he can't do 50 minutes on the RTS, and zero minutes on Dverry, he can't do that. That's why you have to delete any subscription, because the Dvori voters won't pay you to watch Alexander Vukic. Once you've secured objectivity on RTS, then contact us, then we'll pay a bigger subscription to make that RTS independent and independent in its editorial policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13251	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13252	So, "TV subscription, as I promised the citizens of Serbia, will be abolished because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks. This is our obligation we will not give up on," said Aleksandar Vukic, all the media transmitted, the citizens rejoiced, at least one imposition would be lifted, even though it was 500 dinars. Two and a half years later, the subscription came back, but Vukic says it's not a subscription, I kept my word, now I'm introducing a tax. Imagine, my fellow citizens, you don't pay the subscription, you pay the tax, it's not the same, it doesn't matter that the money is the same. True, now there's a slightly smaller amount than the one that was paid earlier. But it's not about the amount, it's about the principle. This is one of the many promises that Vukic and the advances have not fulfilled, and the citizens, of course, know it. But there's something else interesting here. Is it possible you have so much of that so-called. Public service has grown to the heart to double tax on citizens to give money, once from the budget, and that's the money citizens bring into the budget, the second time directly by paying this tax? Even now, it was little by the end of the year, as Vukic promised, he now says – we are extending for another year. Perhaps, Minister, you will adopt some amendment to extend this, rather than re-emerge with the amendments and amendments of the law. But it's interesting to me why you from the government didn't accept this amendment to delete this article, that is, to abolish the payment of that fee. You said, among other things, that this funding has been extended with the aim of removing circumstances that could question the work of public media services and the exercise of their basic activity which is in the role of achieving public interest. I'm sorry, is it possible that they would be threatened if they didn't get this tax, and they got the money from the budget? How would they be threatened? What would be their threat? What did they do, what did they get new, buy? Here, you planned special funds for the tv. So you're also giving it to a real building called tv. Are they perhaps of those money they're getting increased salaries by the largest number of people who work at RTS for minimum wage? What will be threatened, whether the botoxing of the Olje Jovicevic or the fencing of Olive Kovacevic? They're you and a couple of other guys who get a lot of money in the name of profit. The way they earned it, it's just Buke knows, and so do you, for God's sakes, who give them money. We invited Serbian citizens months ago not to pay the subscription, that is, this fee. And then you realized it was going well along with the electricity bill, and then you made a deal with the EPS, or what's the name of this public company that sends those accounts, with Antic, yes, yes. These two ministers have agreed. Then if someone doesn't pay the month, two or three of those fees, then they get a notice from the distribution that they're going to be shut down because they don't pay the electricity. How can you, Minister Antic, threaten to cut the power because he won't pay for a public service? Here, really please, citizens are looking forward to the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13253	I'll delete the list so the minister can answer the question. Sign in, Minister, now. Do not report with MPs until the minister has checked in. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13254	I am pleased to see that there are great similarities and parallels between the SRS and Mr. Zivkovic, as you have now urged citizens not to pay bills for electricity, so Mr. Zivkovic did in the 1990s, and it was a brilliant policy that returned great to the citizens. What I must say, first of all, is that this government is leading one responsible policy, this government is trying to provide public service with the necessary resources for their functioning and to provide a minimum of funds in addition to the austerity measures that apply to other public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with laws that apply to other businesses. We objectively achieve these goals. In achieving these objectives, we have seen that there is not enough resources to meet the absolute function of the public service, and therefore we have brought a temporary fee for additional financing of public service through the charge of electricity bill. We planned this by the end of 2017. Last year we planned a year. We had an amendment to the MP who we took very seriously and as such we accepted it. I deeply believe that what we do most citizens understand absolutely. What we have here today is the politicization and attempt to politicize one side of the opposition, which in its time gave a far greater amount of funding to function this public service or part of the opposition that would surely do so if it were in a position to exercise power. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13255	There's no replica, he told the truth. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. (Zoran Zivkovic: How do you judge? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13256	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13257	I warn you that you have not received your word, and you insult the minister and me. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You lie, not me. I give you a warning. Zoran Zivkovic throws. I give you another reminder, for you continued to act the same way. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. Try if your colleagues from the opposition give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13258	If you can spare time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13259	I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13260	Thank you. I've submitted an amendment that... Zoran Zivkovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13261	What did you say? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What do you care? ) “What do you care? “ Another reminder. I'll give you your time back, but let me hear this repertoire. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What is it? What's this about? ) “What is it? What's this about? “ Next. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Who are you to judge? ) “Who are you to judge? “ ( Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What does it look like? Ambassador, don't... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: On two lies you gave me a warning. To the Minister and to yours. All right. Would you please be kind? So, in accordance with Article 110, since I've given you a few warnings, I take your word for it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Did you come up with it yourself? ) No, Rules of Procedure, Nenad Konstantinović, author of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It is a shame what you do. I just applied that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Leave him... I have to apply the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13262	Thank you, Madam President. I've filed an amendment that deletes a member where an extension of the 150-dollar fee is provided. Already on the amendment to the previous bill, I explained that we advocated, as the minister said, that citizens pay it over the budget. So it doesn't matter if it's a tax or a budget. So, to be from the budget 100%, direct separation of citizens of zero. Instead of subsidies to some failed managers and the cabinet of ministers without portfolios, I believe that these funds can be transferred to budgetary allocations for the work of the public service. The reasons why this 150 dinar tax was introduced is editorial independence and institutional autonomy. There is no and no reason for the tax to continue to exist, taking care of the economic environment, the economic strength of the taxpayers. The economic environment, the economic power of the debtor is weaker than it was, and that's why it needs to be abolished. As for the current situation, it is not due to the dissatisfaction of citizens with public service. The current situation is due to the deviation of a political system for which neither citizens nor public service are responsible. That's why the government is responsible. Furthermore, as regards the impact on public service with increased budget allocations, the question arises – how does the government have an impact on private television, or commercial television, unless it singles out, there is no budgetary separation? Mr. Minister, you can't decide this as an in-house function, but you can advocate to the government that advertising public enterprises, let's say, PTT singles out a huge amount of money to advertise on Pinka or maybe some other televisions, that they may be rerouted to some extent, if they can't be fully, because of the time limits reserved for commercial content, to be rerouted to RTS. This may provide additional funding without having to allocate this much money from the budget, especially that it will not have to be at the expense of citizens in terms of 150 dinar fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13263	Thank you. Otherwise, because of MPs having a dilemma, MP Zivkovic told me otherwise, and in the address "go heal," which is really... I have no comment, except to take away his word. I'm a man. Therefore, believe it or not, MPs who approve of such behavior, I do have some limit below which I cannot go. I'll treat myself, it's no problem, but MPs can't speak at a session like this. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13264	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, every country that holds to itself and holds to its public service. That is why this amendment should not be accepted, and as far as I can hear from the opposition's representatives, by their behaviour and speech, it can be concluded – well, I won't do it the way I want to. So they're absolutely fine with nothing. As far as the public service information programme is concerned, even the position is not satisfied, and therefore some independence exists. I'm sorry you took Mr. Zivkovic's word because I'm in a dilemma. We can't hear how he can get into the museum and the gallery for free, when we know that in all serious states, even in ours, every entrance into the gallery, the museum is paid. So he either doesn't visit them, or he has some special protection for these visits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13265	Do any of the authorities report? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13266	Thank you. It is proposed to delete this member. We've talked about it before. The tax is practically a subscription. I will read again what has already been read here, but it is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we must establish the responsibility of politicians when they promise something, to follow what they promise and keep. So, on May 23, 2013, Aleksandar Vucic said: "TV subscription, as I promised Serbian citizens, will be abolished because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks. It's our obligation not to give up. “ There is no greater marketing trick than to call what was a subscription a tax now. This is another grip in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The tax was supposed to be temporary. It should expire at the end of 2016 and be gone in the next year. This law extends the tax, so that it will be there in 2017 and it is expected to continue. So, instead of introducing order into the Public Service or any other public enterprise, instead, the government always unmistakably reaches into the pockets of citizens and businesses, takes money from there and thereby implements its called reforms. It is not a reform to take from citizens, it is a reform to introduce order into the public sector. What we require of RTS is to introduce full transparency, to tell us exactly how it spends money, to publish all the contracts, to systematize jobs within RTS, there is a lot of party surplus pushed there, so that RTS can meet the role that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia intended for it, that objective information, RTS does not particularly do in the political part. I haven't been to RTS since the election until today. We are the fourth-in-command of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13267	The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Natasha Spa. Jovanovic: Madam President, to return to this amendment, that the SRS is asking the government to accept that this is not now, Mr Antića, a popular tax, and it was a subscription, which our people would say - is not a neck, but a neck. I just called again because you're here. So, a few days ago, Nemanja Sarovic asked you to tell him – how much is on the bill for electricity, since you tied this fee of 150 dinars to an electricity bill, so-called. Involved power. It's been paid since 2001. It was introduced at the time into "Electro-Ecores of Serbia" when these dowries came to power. You, as far as I know, were then in opposition as a member of the SPS -- Slobodan Milosevic, whom they delivered to The Hague, and later there he was killed. So, remember that time, because you're making dyspressions, and you say -- some of them did this or that in this period. Secondly, to answer since this is followed by the public of Serbia – how you came up with this fantastic idea, in addition to introducing this fee to people, but also to charge those who cannot possibly follow the Public Service, and these are people who have more numbers in households where they deal, for example, by raising cattle. Do you think cows will give more quality milk if you charge 150 dinars or 50,000 abandoned duodorian houses or in central Serbia and across Serbia where there are several hundred thousand such numbers on buildings where there is no real possibility and you shouldn't charge for it? I don't need to at all, but please explain to me how you came up with this idea and if you can colleague Sarovic for this hired power that is charged for 15 years on the bill. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13269	I was actually asking you for a replica of the Minister's presentation, but apparently you have denied me this right, and you have also denied me the opportunity to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, because in the meantime you have given the word to another MP, very, very conveniently done. But I am using this time of the parliamentary group to answer in fact the inappropriate discussion of Minister Antic. And last time with Minister Antic, she warned that he could not behave as a MP, that he should be aware of the fact that he is a minister. Mr. Antic says that the radicals and Zoran Zivkovic, he noticed, in something similar. Mr Antić is a member of the SPS that was the same with Kostunica's DSS, with Zivkovic, or Tadic's DS, or Vucic's SNS. Is there someone you're not the same with, just to be Minister of Antico, and only to be part of the government, and you dare tell the SRS parliamentary group, which can be the worst, but always be its own, always consistent and always represent the same interests and never comply with daily politics or any personal interests or anything. And you tell us that we look like your... You know, Zivkovic was from that party that signed with them a charter of fraternization, of some kind of historic peace or whatever. Minister Antić, you are obviously a very incompetent minister and incompetent government because this law, when you were planning on bringing it, will be enough for a year for citizens to take a fee for RTS and now after a year, you say it yourself – we did not get a good estimate, and that year means that you are still taking Serbian citizens out of the pocket of 150 dinars, which means that you are an incompetent man.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13270	Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard quite interesting theories, from the fact that a little tax has been reduced, or subscription – not a little more than three times. It was 500 dinars, now it's 150 dinars, and the government's goal is to gradually move towards a full suspension of the public service funding tax. However, I can't figure out what the tax has to do with whether the opposition's representatives have their own political observations on our Public Service. Now that I look at how they discuss here in the Assembly, I appeal to the Public Service to let them go as much as possible, because the more he lets them go, the more citizens see what they really are and what they say, the easier it will be to beat them in the election. Zoran Krasic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13272	What do you say? I don't know what you're throwing. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13273	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first want to apologize for the behavior and for those who go out, the professor in retreat. I'm going to have to introduce special exercises for those who turn their back like this, they're going to be doing some exercises. I apologize for my fellow farmer's behaviour. We're not all farmers like that. Those in the attempt are what they are, but it is said by him one great untruth. It has been said that there was no TV subscription in the government of Zoran Djindjic. That's not true. So, on July 2, 2002, the Law on Broadcasting was returned to TV subscription. The promoter was Zarko Korac, vice president of the then government. A subscription amounting to 210 dinars or 3.5 euros was introduced, which is about 450 dinars today, three times what the tax is now foreseen. My colleague, the farmer, told a harsh lie, and then he made an incident. You have to understand it. It's time to cross the wine. There's no sunny weather, and that's why he's a little nervous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13274	Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13275	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here we have one complete ignorance of the law, first of all, and chasing what's a tax, what's a subscription. First of all, this tax does not introduce the state, nor does its height, but RTS does, and that's a huge difference. We heard here earlier that the state should determine how to operate RTS. I'm sorry. We now have a classic example of those who want to shut down the public service because if the state influences how RTS is going to operate and what RTS is going to do, then it's no longer a public service, then it's under state control. I can't help but wonder what kind of suggestions people make here. If we want to cancel the tax, otherwise the tax is at the height of a pack of cigarettes, that's the amount of tax. So 150 dinars, even less than a pack of cigarettes. That's the price we pay for RTS. If you want to end it and that's what the state is financing, then tell the citizens that the government is going to take over that television and that it's government television because it's being financed from the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't want it, since the law says that RTS can make up to 500 dinars, it means up to 500 dinars, it can't overstate that tax. But if you don't want the state to finance what we're doing now, just so the citizens don't pay anymore, then tell the citizens that you want RTS to give them up to 500 dinars, or 500 dinars, maybe. Take your pick. Don't lie to the citizens. So RTS can be financed, I said, in two ways -- or completely out of the budget, then it's a state-run whole television or it's funded by citizens. The third is to shut down RTS. As for our relationship and RTS to SNS, well, it's a disaster. You go on RTS shows that's three to one -- the leader, plus two or three opposition representatives and you. It's a regular thing. As for some who complain that they are not invited, here, I join fellow Arsic's appeal, asking RTS as much as possible, because they are the best example why citizens should not vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13276	I'll give my word further to the MPs. I urge you to try to talk about the amendments, as you will not, of course. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13277	I'm reporting for this proposal, since the government, they say, is funding from the budget, to make it government television. We don't mind and let's call it RT Alexander Wolf. Where's the better idea, why not? Here, we're for it. Come on, whatever the government funds from the budget, make it government. Well, let them be government hospitals. Imagine, the clinic Aleksandar Vucic, well, the Constitutional Court is called the Constitutional Court of Aleksandar Vucic, well, the Faculty of Faculty Alexander Vukic, University of Alexander Vucic. It shows how you humiliate institutions. You're not able to build institutions, because you think if the government gives money - then it's government. And that would be...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13278	Thank you. You've wasted the time of the parliamentary group, as well as the authorised representative. So now you can only talk about amendments. Thank you. You're very kind. The word has an authorised representative, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13279	I would use the right to replicate for the mention of the president of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13280	There, representing the party. You know it very well, but you're yelling at me, that's the order. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13281	Well, that's the problem here, because one minority in this assembly is constantly terrorizing most, which hasn't really happened. You know, if I said - Alexander Vukitch did it, they would attack me with all their might. But I don't understand, in fact, their obsession with Alexander Wolfich, I understand. Alexander Vukic is the Prime Minister who has the result behind him. Some were ministers, they had nothing behind them, they had closed businesses, some were government presidents. What are their results? In any case, maybe history will judge each and every one of us what they did. Is there going to be an institution named after the current politicians today? He probably will, but I'm absolutely sure no institution, no street will get the name Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13282	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13283	So, Mr. Arsic, if there's going to be a street named after me I don't know, but I certainly hope it won't be long, because you know what the condition is for getting the street, I'm not ready to meet that condition. The second question is, you're constantly attacking the opposition. You say - you're being terrorized by the opposition. And, right to tell you, some of you really seem like victims. Some of you were also publicly telling the media that they were victims, so that they lied because they considered the lie a moral obligation. Now there's a question, Mr. Arsic, who should I trust? To you today or to you a few years ago? Are you the victim now, that maybe, or one of your colleagues, maybe now someone's making you lie, because you think it's your moral obligation to Alexander Wolfich? It's a matter of moral credibility here, and I think the job of the opposition is to criticise what we're doing. Your problem is the idealessness. You are unable to deal with arguments with opposition, quality laws or any other way. Besides, if you had better ideas, you'd be the one and you'd be the ones who insist on RTS to make as many duels as possible, to humiliate us, to destroy us, to see Serbian citizens as superior as you know how good your proposals are. Why are you running away from it if you're proud of your attitudes? Because the situation is just the opposite. You have no idea. You've accepted and written your own amendments to every member of the law. The law of two members, you accept the amendment and that is something that is repeated over and over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13284	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. We're closing a circle of replicas and moving on. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13285	Thank you. It was logical for me to submit an amendment to this bill in the same text, i.e. a ton and a narrative of this debate, and according to what we have witnessed over the past years, one and two and a half years, is that we lack ideas, that we lack time and time and that we lack dialogue so that the problem of how to finance public services is really solved. Whether the justification - I didn't say a tax, I said a subscription, whether it was - we had elections, so we lost six months, so instead of justifying and explaining, it's time to face reality and to see how deep the problems we have in trying to get everyone to freedom of the media, to come to a public interest that would be financed in a sustainable way, which would be with an editorial composition, an editorial policy left in peace, and a part, an uninterrupted part of the social dialogue on what is public interest, what is it that all of us who watch RTS and TV should have to have in order to have a satisfied hunger, thirst for information, real information, timely, timely, accurate, timely, time-lit on many sides. That's what successful societies do. This debate shows that we don't want to and that we can't be a successful society, that we're simply not going to invest a crumb of goodwill to hear someone else say anything, listen and use anything other than a mocking dictionary. Of course it's being painted in the media. The media is a mirror of society. Our society isn't structured, you don't have a public scene, you don't have critical segments within a society that would make sure that once a defined public interest is maintained in the definition, that this is being debated. We're a population, not a society, and that's why we're unsuccessful, and we want to make it mythical, to mock, to deny it to success. No matter what we don't do, and we and witnesses and participants, we're on a verbal level in that. My amendment was -- let's give each other consciousness about what our problem is, enough time to move out of the frog's throat, mythical, pre-political, self-destructive, mocking discourse in society and start talking. Do we need a public service? How much does that cost? How can we do that? Is anyone in Serbia in the interest of not having a public service, legitimate, to say who it is? Is it in anyone's interest to see each other in a year's time and lie again, as we lied last year, as we lied to each other last year, as we lie in this debate about whether it's a tax or a subscription? Once a childish phase of society has to end. The responsibility to go into adulthood is equal to that of those who have the power to manage public affairs and those who are there to keep watch and to make sure that this power is used in a public, transparent manner, in a dialogue around which we have the awareness that it must last. I don't know if we can handle this in two years. I don't know. But I do know that this session is important for some of us to change their minds about how comfortable we are to be powerful in a society that is a population and that is pre-political and mythical. It can take, but there is no development, and how much we are willing to invest in it being a dialogue, to be a development, and that in two years from today, so in four years from today, we see the difference for the better. That's what this is all about, about freedoms, and that's why this debate is taking so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13286	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I note that the Government and the Committee on Culture and Information have accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13287	Thank you, Chairman. This law is called – the Law on the Temporary Payment of Taxes for Public Media Service. Temporarily. I think the government is the first thing it should have done, with the amendment and addition of this law to propose and delete words - temporarily, because it is obviously not temporary. The government came with a proposal to temporarily, after a year, last another year, and now it's accepted the amendment to last, in fact, two years. I, despite my assurance from the government that it will be settled in the next two years, am sure not if this government is in office for the next two years. So, it won't be again and again in two years, regardless of the optimism of Col. Comic, we won't solve this issue if this is the government. I see the only reason for optimism in the election and the fact that another government is coming. But this law is usually a lex specialis, because it puts aside a few provisions of the Public Media Service Act. But apparently the MPs don't know that. We just heard how the level of the public media service fee is being arranged by the board of directors, and that's what the Public Media Service Act says. But in this law which otherwise has 12 members and was brought in December 29, 2015, Article 9, there is one single sentence that says - the level of tax unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia is determined in a monthly amount of 150 dinars. So, it no longer determines the board of directors, neither in 2016, and now that we have extended the validity of this law neither in 2017, nor in 2018, we suspend this law, this lex specialis. It's your manners. That's why we're against laws like this, and that's why we're asking not to vote on such laws, and we've proposed amendments not to accept such laws. So, the government is running a bad policy, there's not a single answer to any problems. He can't solve it. She made this decision as a temporary solution to tax, and no more subscription is charged again with an electricity bill, but so that you can no longer get rid of the pay practically, regardless of whether you have an electric number on the garage, in the cottage, on an auxiliary facility, you can't formally free yourself and first charge taxes and then the costs for the electricity delivered. That's the problem with this whole law. It would have been better if it had never been brought in and that today after a year of its application we had never received such a proposal from the government that it was still valid for another year, and unfortunately, this amendment will be valid for another two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13288	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13289	This is extremely interesting to me, a distinguished colleague criticises his opposition colleague's amendment, and the government accepts the opposition's amendment. This is absolutely amazing what we've been listening to today, but for 12 years you've had a chance to arrange RTS financing and you haven't done it. You had a pointless subscription that was almost non-refundable. Now, as you plead to come to power, I believe you will win, I ask you, and the citizens of Serbia ask you – and how will you solve the financing of RTS? I didn't hear a solution from you. So, it would be good for you to tell us how you're going to finance RTS, or what is the RTS going to finance? You want to go to the market? I'm not sure they can survive the programs they produce. You want the government to finance? All right, but then the government sets up a director. We just heard an extremely diabolical remark, and then he says because of the hospital director, I'm sorry, then the government has the right to appoint a director of RTS, as the hospital director has appointed. So let's not be so little. I agree with the amendment promoter in everything he said, although I must always pretend to understand what a distinguished colleague is saying, because it's a little philosophical, but it would be nice if she said the same thing, when, let's say, there was a change in TV. However, we had a completely different situation. Then all those who were replaced were declared to be actually apostles of independent journalism, and all those who came after them, these are some rigid types who simply shouldn't have been journalists. Maybe it was supposed to be a shootout, an alustration, that's how you treated the unthinkers. That's what they did on October 5th. You know, if you want a democratic discourse, then respect the opposite opinion. Not all journalists are members of NUNS, nor are all journalists members of another association. There are some who are not members of any association at all, and your problem is that as journalists, you consider those who are in an independent association of Serbian journalists, one of the Sorosev Associations, who is thus trying to create public opinion, only as they wish. Therefore, if you are in favour of democratic discourse and some democratic dialogue, then you realize that there is also someone who thinks differently about you and that what you are doing, and for 12 years you haven't solved funding or RTS and RTS, you still leave it to someone who knows a little bit better. By the way, the law is passed so that citizens don't pay more taxes, only to be 150 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13290	Thank you. A colleague named Jovo Ostojic answered, but I must inform you that your parliamentary group is out of time. The next word came from counterpart Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13291	Thank you. counterpart Djukanovic reiterates as if the government had some money, so the government is funding RTS, so if the government is financed by RTS from its budget, MP Djukanovic thinks it has the right to appoint RTS director. To inform the MP, to learn once and for all, that the government has no money. The government has no dinars, no government has dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13292	Talk to me, please, colleague Radulovic. Not directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13293	... only taxpayers, citizens who pay taxes and those taxes are then paid both hospitals and schools, so RTS is also paid. Therefore, there is no dilemma as to whether the subscription, tax or budget, everything comes out of the citizens' pockets, counterpart Djukanovic. We also hope to hear your begging...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13294	Excuse me, colleague Radulovic, please speak to me, not directly to the speaker. Respect the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13295	Thank you, Chairman, for setting the arches to the speaker. So, it would be very nice if this appeal that my colleague Djukanovic made to everyone was heard, that we show up at RTS and really destroy our career policies, but it's going to be the other way around. It will be said that the SNS is afraid that Alexander Vucic is afraid of the opposition's appearance on television, which is why we can't even go to RTS. That's why I wasn't on the RTS on Channel One, from election to today. These ridiculous plantings as they look at RTS2 every day, so it's not RTS, it's not what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia finance through a tax or budget, because it's paid by the Assembly, so these transfers have to go. So, please listen to the begging of fellow Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13296	Thank you. Replica, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13297	I agree, of course, that's the people's money and there's no dilemma, just like when the state paid for the bankruptcy managers. You know, in 16 companies, you're a bankruptcy manager and you're a recordman and you get one 22 million dinars. Maybe it was supposed to go to RTS, not that kind of bankruptcy manager. In doing so, citizens have expectations of saving their company and you're ruining their business. You see, that's what's scandalous and don't let them talk about people's money, because people's money inn, that's the difference, hiring their wives, godfathers, godfathers, etc. So it's folk money as well as hospitals, but I'm talking about how fine it is in the law defined. If you want citizens to pay less taxes, then we have to accept this. If you don't want the state to give out of the RTS budget, the tax will be higher, because you wanted public service and that's the difference. So public service means citizens pay for it. I don't mind, but then if you want this other thing that you say the government is funding, that's it. that the national money from the budget that the taxpayers gave, then you have to accept the following fact, that there is then no board of directors, nor REM, nor do I know what, but the Government appoints a director, because it is its institution. Then don't complain about the editor's program eventually. I'm not a fan of it, I'm still a independent institution who's going to choose the board of directors, and of course I'm asking RTS as much as possible to call the gentleman in question, because whenever there's a rating he falls by at least 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13298	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. () Since we have gone far from the subject and from the amendment, we are moving on. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13299	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: You gave Mr Djukanovic a replica. How do you give it there and not give it to the opposition? The same arches, Mr. Chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13300	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13301	Thank you. With a reminder that currently on the agenda is the extension of the deadlines of a law that is temporarily regulated and that a fellow MP asked me why I'm not talking about tv, I'm at your disposal if you want us to break the rules of the agenda, talk about both violence and robbery and police officers in civilians on TV, the violation of the press code, the lawlessness of holding a board meeting, all of which I'm at your disposal when it's on the agenda, but now it's not. It's on the agenda now. About the persecution of journalists also, about the threats of journalists, about the lies they will praise or not, I am also available to answer, as I am available to answer you and about what happened to TV and TV "The Bridge" on October 5, 2000. And here I am at your disposal, but it's not all about the subject. So, unfortunately, you have contributed to my sad claim that there is no will, no knowledge, no ability to dialogue, but I am still at your disposal for the day when you will be, because I will not give up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13302	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13303	I will try briefly, first of all, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to clarify some things, since we have here a classic replacement of the works of the opposition MPs. First of all, no one introduces this bill of law. The tax exists under the Law on Public Media Services and has been defined through this law as the only form of financing of public services. The boards of directors of RTS and RTV decided in 2015 that the tax should amount to a maximum of 500 dinars. In December 2015, the government, in order to protect the citizens of Serbia, taking into account their socio-economic position, brings this lex specialis and defines this lex specialis that the tax can be maximum of 150 dinars and defines that the difference will be touched from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So this law defines two things -- 150 dinars as a maximum, not 500 dinars, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the way they charge taxes, or the reduction in the cost of charging fees through what is being charged through an account. I have to say, it's not true that anyone pays a TV subscription for stables, auxiliaries and the like. This law clearly defines which objects are charged, defines who has the right to be released. I have to say, about 180,000 metric places have been released from paying that fee. Finally, I have to tell my colleague Đurišić, we found a very good model for us to be effective in charging taxes, unlike what existed in 2005 to 2013 or 2014, when it was abolished, when 400m euros in fees were not charged and when RTS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13304	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Mr. Radulovich, did you answer the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13305	This amendment, of course, should not be accepted. The government accepted it because everything was on its way. Once again, the state and government have no money, so when paid from the budget, and part of the RTS is financed from the budget, it's not government money so the government can think about setting up a director or not. It's a little bit of a banter I hear constantly from my colleague Djukanovic and he doesn't stop. So the government doesn't have the money, the state doesn't have the money, they have the taxpayers and they pay RTS, as they pay the fees that used to be a subscription. What the minister said is really interesting. So the government protected Serbian citizens by dragging her hand into their pocket and taking 150 dinars. It's an interesting concept and I'm sure the citizens will understand that very well. I have one proposal for both the Government and the Ministers, instead of dragging their hand into the citizens' pocket, to actually reduce, in fact, the order of a public enterprise, to reduce their losses. I will remind the minister, 47 billion dinars are foreseen in the 2017 budget to pay guarantees to public enterprises that cannot repay their debts. So, 47 billion dinars! In the last three years 95 billion have gone to the same thing. Therefore, the government does not impose order, but drags its hand into citizens' pockets and businesses. Once again as regards Djukanovic, who is obviously obsessed with bankruptcy, let me tell you, I will introduce a SNS bankruptcy in April.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13306	Mr. Radulovic, that had absolutely no touch points with the amendment, and I ask you to address the chosen words in the National Assembly and not to insult Parliament's dignity. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Djukanovic, you have a basis for replication, but Mr. Antic also has a basis for replication. If you'll excuse me, first Minister Antic, then you. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13307	I really understand that demagogy is part of a political game and, I understand, it can often be part of the opposition's political struggle, but Mr. Radulovic would have to know a little bit more than what I'm talking about. So, Mr. Radulovic would have to know what the Law on Public Media Services is and to know what the price of the fee established by the RTS and RTS boards is, in order to balance it with me. If you knew it was 500 dinars, and this is a lex specialis, Mr. Radulovic, then you'd realize that we from these 150 dinars have really saved citizens from taking extra money to function as a public service. So we didn't drag anyone's hand into their pocket, we just kept the citizens out of the 350 dinars of extras that were valid for the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13308	Mr. Sarovic, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13309	Mr. Milicevic, Article 104 has been injured, you have injured him by letting Minister Antić speak about this demagogy, and he is in accordance with Article 104, who is obliged to pack the demagogue in two minutes. It can't be two times two, it can't be two minutes after each amendment. It can't be a total demagogue to pack. Article 104, we have to read it until they learn from the chairman, he says – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly has an offensive expression about the MP, therefore, the minister can say whatever he wants, who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, name and function, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation is concerned has the right to replication, and if offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group can, etc. Article 158. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, paragraph 7, states: “The legislator or authorised representative – who is now fleeing the hall, Mr Antić – has the right to talk about each amendment for two minutes, with the total duration of the search on this basis cannot last longer than two hours. “ So two minutes for ministers. Ministers are already too privileged to report as much as they want in the principle debate. And that's unnatural, considering they're guests here, but don't give them any more details than the rights they have. The MPs have much less. We have 27 minutes. Come on, respect the Rules of Procedure you brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13310	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Of course we respect the Rules of Procedure, and I do not think I have hurt the Rules of Procedure by allowing Mr Antic as a representative of the motionary for an additional two minutes, given that the MP addressed him directly in his previous presentation. You are a lawyer and you know very well that the Rules of Procedure apply and applies to all participants in the debate, and to the representatives of the promoters and the MPs. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. You can't get a word in the Rules of Procedure now because, giving an explanation, I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you said you wanted the National Assembly in the day of voting to plead for the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am giving the right to a replica of Mr. Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13311	Thank you, Your Honor, for having finally come to my turn. Since someone is threatening to introduce us to bankruptcy, I must quote Njegoš: “The fortress is a fruit of strangeness, and don’t break it, but the teeth break it. ” That's the case with the Serbian Progressive Party. You know, the mouse and when it goes up to the hill, it remains a mouse and can't be those who don't exist, if we're going to quote Bogisic, which is born, the time doesn't correct, those who don't exist, who are some kind of civil movement, can go to a well-organised political organization. It's just that it's not working and they can only dream. I'll do it again. We have a flaw, of course, because the rule of law isn't fully implemented, because if it were, he'd be in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13312	Mr Djukanovic, the job should still be done by competent authorities and competent institutions. Replica, the Serbian Progressive Party's authorised representative, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I will not quote Njegoš, but I will say one folk proverb: a man learns from another's mistakes, and someone else learns from his own mistakes. It's not the first time he's threatened a Serbian advanced party with bankruptcy. Some others here threatened it from 2009 to 2012. And you know how that ended? They had to wait four years for their list to pass the censorship and be back in the National Assembly. I am fully convinced that if someone wants to be declared the bankruptcy director of the Serbian Progressive Party, first, they must beat it in the elections and make sure that when the elections are called, they do not wait another four years for it to enter the National Assembly after the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13314	I think we're too far away from the subject and now, according to Article 112, I'm going to take a short break of five minutes to get back to the amendment debate. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The amendment was submitted by Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13316	I thank you, Chairman, and I add that it is absolutely irresponsible that after two and a half years since the adoption of the Law on Public Media Services, the provisions of this law continue to apply, because for the second time, for the second time, the Assembly is breaking the deadlines set by the Government of Serbia itself, deeming them sufficient to set a new charging system through taxis. I would like to remind you that, in the meantime, there was also a Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which public media services taxis are paid, which is directly contrary to the Law on Public Media Services and which introduces additional uncertainty in the media legal area. What I find very problematic and very dangerous here is that this solution speaks about the government's relationship with the Public Service and the Government's desire to turn it into their own party service, putting public interest in the government's dependence through permanent budget financing. A little earlier in my presentation, I mentioned how dangerous it is that the state has any share and that it financially supports the media, because this is a direct path to media conditioning, to political and financial abuse of the media, and that in no way can lead us to free society. I remind you that in companies where there are turbulent circumstances, in unstable societies like our society, that any interference in the media for consequence has a direct manipulation of citizens. So, the media represents in every society a basic means of informing people through whom they are informed. Thanks to who they should make intelligent and thoughtful political decisions. Such a situation is absolutely impossible in circumstances where only one political party, when the Government, in particular, controls a media public service that should be the basic media service of citizens and the basic means through which citizens can receive objective, fair and true information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13317	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13318	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, the topic is still not whether we want to finance public service but what citizens must get in return. It is necessary to repeat this every time because MPs of the ruling majority are constantly claiming that someone wants to abolish public service. That's just not true. We have already talked about how public service should return the service for which all Serbian citizens pay for it. So, in return, he must provide in his information-political work, to provide a picture of Serbia as it really looks in Serbia itself or at least in this parliament. Therefore, it is not normal for Prime Minister Vukic and the ruling majority's ministers to receive 99% of the 100% of the political information emissions, to receive 1% of the so-called members. constructive opposition, and that all others in the electoral body have far greater popularity than those shown on public service, have no profile. I have suggested that a rule be made by which public service would commit itself to representing political organisations and political parties present in parliament in its political-informative emissions. If someone, therefore, has 5% in the Assembly, it should receive 5% of the seats in political-informative emissions. I think it's fair for that money that Serbian citizens pay for public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13319	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I call on him not to adopt. In the explanation we got from the government, I think it's a clear story why. Furthermore, it doesn't matter what we heard earlier as an explanation with the amendment itself, it should be noticed. Secondly, and what little he tried to say about the amendment seems to have missed his amendment, but it's no wonder, because, back to the government's explanation, he missed a complete law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13321	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13322	We understand that the ruling majority thinks it has been missed that all political parties represented in the Assembly have a proportional representation in information emissions, of course, when their representation is 100%. So they can say things like this. We will win the elections, and we will never do things like this, because the same media representation, the equal chance for political options, is the prerequisite for democracy, and the media darkness is actually the thing that kills Serbia and allows us to have this condition that we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13323	According to the amendment, firstly MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13324	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my dear fellow professor, who is on the run again, has missed, and has not spoken at all about this amendment. He was talking about someone else. Again, he asked that political parties be equally represented, although he does not have a registered political party, and for 10 years he has not been off central television.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13325	By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13326	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, citizens of Serbia, I'm glad you heard, someone said they'd never do it like they did today. So they're going to edit RTS. That's the key difference between us and them. By the way, and here, you can correct me, the director of RTS is Mr. Bujosevic. They said it was an apostle of independent journalism, glorified him on the 5th of October for his book that he was a great journalist, an independent journalist. Well, you're complaining to him that you're not there, if you're not there. Don't complain to us. We have nothing to do with it. Even we're complaining about the RTS program. And you're a journalist who you've so much appreciated, who you've raised in heaven, you're complaining to him and you're missing more SNS and this government that doesn't want to affect the programming scheme and the work of RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13327	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. You have no basis for replication, and by amendment you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13328	Selling that story to Serbian citizens not to affect RTS is really funny. Alexander Vukic directly edits all the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13329	Since the SNS president has been mentioned, Mr Vladimir Orlic has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13330	Thank you. Here we are again in the replica. That's nice, thanks for that. Why we can speak by the right to the replica, that's more than clear. Because some here have nothing else to say until they talk about the Prime Minister and the SNS. That's why we're constantly getting a basis for replication. Why don't some others get you a basis for replication? Because other than the primitive roar we hear right now, there's nothing else they can do. No one ever mentions a name to them, they don't mention the party, among other things, because there's no party there. There are some associations of citizens who falsely represent themselves as movements, but there is no party here, if we're to be honest. The issue of bankruptcy, governance, etc. today Mr. Arsic, the authorised representative for this session, those who are so proud of that sentence should know, if they did not know, here today to know, they did not invent it, and should know that the consequence of the use of that sentence is not to be in the National Assembly for many, many years. I'm not going to say that it's now a certain bad luck, not to say jinx, because I'm superstitious in that sense I'm not, but maybe, just maybe, for the environment of whoever's using these things and that information is of particular interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13331	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13332	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. I think you were obliged to warn the previous speaker that the MPs speak in words and language, and do not imitate any of the sounds of animals. I think that was your assignment, Chairman. The ruling majority obviously have no argument, so they invent various lies, and ultimately insult the opposition's MPs, because it seems to them to be the only thing they have left, since they are unable to answer in another way in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13333	In accordance with Article 104(3), I have given the right to replication and I have not noticed that Mr Orlic was inappropriately speaking to other colleagues and fellow Members. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13334	Articles 103 and 104. You were obliged to warn when someone does not stick to the agenda and does not stick to the amendment, and in doing so it is false. It is said here, dear citizens of Serbia, that Mr. Vukic directly affects Mr. Bujosevic, which is a terrible lie. If anyone wants to offend the dignity of Mr. Bujosevic, the apostle of independent journalism for the gentleman concerned until recently, then let him go to his face. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has a major problem with RTS, at least as far as the information programme is concerned. Therefore, such a lie, you have been obliged to warn him because he insults the dignity of the director of RTS, em is a terrible lie, which deceives the entire public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13335	Mr. Djukanovic, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because precisely because of what I've said, I've made the replica possible for Mr. Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, 106 and Article 107. Mr. Chairman, and now you are attending the obvious obstruction of freedom of speech, that is Article 106(3). All the time today, I could forgive myself while I was at stake, but constantly today whenever I answered the word from this MP group, people were jumping, going out, opening doors, standing, turning their backs. These are all ways of disrupting someone's freedom of speech. It became a habit for them, and while a colleague from the opposition party advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a fellow MP who kept turning his back on me threw it away, standing close by, fidgeting, breaking his arms, breaking his arms, whether he was returning, whether he was getting it, I don't know what he was doing, but it was an obvious way of jeopardising the freedom of speech that was ensnared by Article 106. The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. So, please, I'm not asking you to vote on this, but in the future, take care and from time to time this nervous MP, who is bothering me, draw attention to the fact that if he can't calm down himself, to seek appropriate help at the appropriate facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13337	Thank you. I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, because I can't predict what the MPs are going to say, but that's why you're here to point out that. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the injury displayed? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Nogo People's MPs, DJB, they're getting it. [[Anna Stevanović, from the place: A replica of insulting MPs?]] ) How long have you been MPs that you have been able to study the Rules of Procedure and to realize that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has always preceded replicas. Speaking of replicas, you don't have a basis for replicating because you can't use a replica to hurt your Rules of Procedure. That's impossible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13338	Article 27. You take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and regarding that Article 103. Two previous MPs who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13339	Mr. Nogo, just because I'm taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you can't point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has already been pointed out. Those members are being ordered. That's why we keep working. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović, joint MPs of Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr. Miladin Šulić and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajić. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has been passed by MP Sasa Radulovic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13340	So, Chairman, this is amazing what you're doing, the citizens are watching. So you deny the opposition to speak, you serially give the position to speak, you deny the replicas, and you act truly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13341	Please speak according to the amendment that was filed. Here you go. If you want to speak according to the amendment, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13342	I'm talking. You're obviously scared, or you got a warrant so I can't speak. So there was a replica I was supposed to answer. You allowed it all, you allowed the harshest insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13343	Do you want to speak by amendment, Mr. Radulovich? This isn't an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13344	So, the most harsh insults you allow, and you don't give the right to say a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13345	I guess you don't want to. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13346	Let me explain one thing. When an electricity tax is introduced it is then a public revenue under the Budgetary System Act. Now, what does that mean? Anyone who has a bill pays a fee, and that's independent. The second part of this law says – we will aim purposely at these public services. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it is possible that the fee for the counter is also for butterflies, butterfly farming, and dedicated funds for public service can be provided in another way. This in translation means that this Law on the temporary arrangement of fees for public media services and the Law on Public Media Services are also contrary to the Law on the Budgetary System, in particular to Art. 14, 17, Article 2 point 14), as a tax may only come for the provision of a particular public service. The tax on the bill is to provide some public service related to electricity, but it's obviously not here. Someone's gonna deal with these things before the Constitutional Court, but I'm not getting into these things. Since this is a provisional law and has been said from January 1st to December 31st, at dusk of the law hit us as from the clear sky amendments to Gordana Comic and this has extended for another two years. Unnecessarily. In the end, just one more sentence. We were not accepted by the amendment, and the traffic minister wanted to die because of that member 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13347	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13348	Dear Mr. Chairman, of course, the most important thing is to look into why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment in its reasoning. It is said that this could call into question the work of public media services and the exercise of their basis of action which is in the role of realising public interest. What is the basic activity of a public media service that is in the role of achieving public interest, if it is not freedom of the media, if it is not the face of the authorities and the opposition, if it is not a parliamentary debate, or debate of all participants in Serbia's political and parliamentary life. What public interest is it that you never see any opposition leader on RTS? Whose public interest is that? It's no one's public interest. That's the sole interest of the government. Then you're telling us that Alexander Vukic has no interference with the public media service. Okay, what's the reason the public media service, Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister, doesn't invite any opposition leader to RTS? What reason is that? What's the reason if it's not Wolfie? What's the reason? Come on, gentlemen, forwarders, can you give us that reason? So he didn't ban the RTS from showing up opposition leaders. Who is it? Is it Bujosevic? (Blaze the Prince, from the place: Go and ask him. That's great. Let's finally solve that mystery. Not just on RTS, on tv. On Vojvodina's Radio TV since it was taken over by the advances, no opposition leader can appear either. How about "Pinku"? How about Studio B? Can any TV be controlled by the SNS, and all the TVs mentioned are controlled by the SNS? And after – why are there no direct television duels? Why is there no interaction between the authorities and the opposition? Of course, there is, Alexander Vukic went on a duel with one of the strongest opposition leaders in Serbia, Jelena Karlushi. It's his measure of duality and participation in a reality show. It is Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandar Vukic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So "Farma" is a measure of SNS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13349	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's going to be short too. It doesn't have to be too long. You heard what happened. Right on the line, if anyone hasn't noticed. The new DOS has again sent its pawn to the SNS and Prime Minister. Again, as the people would say, we're going on a bike to Russia. So we've already been dealing with the question of where someone, apparently, is unhappy with their position within the new DOS, can find some space. Let's just get a little bit too focused, see what we've got so far. We have determined that he cannot be a joint presidential candidate, although he really wants it very badly and offers it neatly, is practically offered as a tray, no one cuts it down two percent. That can't be. We also found that he couldn't be head of the election staff, although he offered himself that, too. He can't, because he can't control himself, let alone others. We all know what he's doing, what he's done today and before, so he's doing it again. So control from nowhere. We've already offered to be just a pawn, we've noticed there's talent. Looks like he's not happy with the offer. We've already offered to maybe be on call, campaign singing. If he's doing anything, if he's getting ready and training, by everything we've seen in this room, that's it. But I'm listening to something a little while ago, so I think of it. It seems also recommended for a double to a certain estrad artist, so if the new DOS accidentally planned the official role of the double of a particular estred artist, we have no objection to his official role in the coalition. They can officially call him Diva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13351	By amendment, the People's MP... (Bosko Obradovic throws. I don't know any bar singers from the Ibar highway. Trust me. I don't recognize. I really don't know. I don't recognize it. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13352	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106(3) has been injured. – during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search is not allowed to throw, interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure. In this case, we have had a horrendous throw-off and an addition to the MP who first addressed himself here directly, but so skillfully that he earns the praise of the one who actually oversees, unfortunately, the work of this entire body, Alexander Vukic. So, you'll get a commendation, you've earned it. Please, I am speaking to you, therefore, not to anyone directly, to quickly return order to here. I apologize to all Serbian citizens for having to watch this while we are just talking about how their money is being spent on just like this. I'm sorry that I can't ask you more often to give replicas to the ruling party, because everything the MPs here say, first of all, talks about themselves, about them personally. On the other hand, don't think that citizens don't have eyes and ears, stop underestimating the intelligence of all of us opposition MPs and all of Serbia's citizens. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13353	I thank you, too. It's good that citizens have eyes and ears. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. You were looking for a replica? (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Why? You can do it by amendment. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. ) Are you directly mentioned? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I hadn't been mentioned by name and last name, if I hadn't been mentioned in a negative connotation, here's another distraction, I wouldn't have resented it, I don't even blame my colleague in front of me for using my injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm mentioned here in a negative media connotation. I don't run away from any TV duels, I don't choose television. Since I was 90, since I started the party, so it wasn't necessary for the church to start my own party, but I started it myself, and I didn't visit the RTS live once, except when the National Assembly was being transferred, and I was then denied. Whoever mentioned me was visiting the RTS and when he didn't have a political party, he just played the political party. He was happy to see my guest at Olivera Kovacevic's, is that his name? So, unlike him, when he and outside parliament had the right to visit the RTS, I have not achieved it until today. I also heard about the money being printed from that colleague. I believe the next session will suggest that we do it with a photocopier, perhaps in the Chachana Library, this time he decided to do a public service, and I suggest to my fellow Members that they do everything but not allow little Pernar to edit RTS in the way he wants to broadcast and print money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13355	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. I don't know why you always recognize each other, but you have no basis for replication. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Krasic and Momcilo Mandic. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed, are not voted on. Article 163, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13356	Thank you. Citizens of Serbia, I have proposed this amendment to adopt the law before the government proposes to adopt it. Of course, everything on the assumption that the amendments I've submitted to this one, so on that previous law regarding public service. To remind you, these were amendments concerning transparency and regulation to introduce a proportionate representation of political parties in political and information programmes, and I propose, unlike the Government that this law enters into force the next day of publication in the Official Messenger, that this law enters into force on the same day that it is adopted, or published in the Official Messenger, in order to give as much time as possible to public services to prepare all possible documentation, prepare rules on the proportionate representation of political organisations and parties in their programmes. Once again, I want to say that this approach that I have here is based solely on the idea of citizens paying, whether through taxes, whether through taxes, public service, and that the principle of transparency and proportionality in representation, what the Public Service must have as a liability if it wants to be a public service and if it wants the citizens of this country to finance it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13357	Thank you. Mr. Obradich, you're the one who answered the amendment? (Bosko Obradović, from town: Yes. Here you go, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13358	Mr. Chairman, since we will never be entitled to replication from the opposition, of course we still have to report for the amendment. I really can't understand why Mr. Marijan Risticevic felt offended that I called him Alexander Vukic in the National Assembly. Nor can I understand why Alexander Vukic would find himself offended by what I called him...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13359	Mr. Obradich, is that an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13360	So, this amendment and how it makes sense and we support it for the simple reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13361	Does it make sense with Marijana Risticevic, related to Marijan Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13362	It makes sense. I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13363	Don't explain it to me. I'm asking if you want to speak by amendment? If you want, I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13364	You're wasting my time, is that the point of your incursion in my time? You have your time, don't take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13365	Oh, for God's sake, why would he kidnap you? We'll go back, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13366	So you steal our time on RTS, steal our time in the National Assembly, steal our lives, rob our salaries and pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13367	Mr. Obradovic, I ask you very precisely – do you want to speak according to the amendment? (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I want to speak by amendment from the beginning. ) From the beginning – do you want to speak according to the amendment? Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13368	Mr. Chairman, since we are closing this debate on Public Media Service and RTS, we would once again like to point out our position from the opposition that we consider to be any kind of subscription or tax or whatever it is that calls SNS a new robbery of Serbian citizens inadmissible by the moment until the RTS citizens can see their political representatives from the opposition. A very simple thing, why should opposition voters pay a tax and never on RTS political shows can see their political representatives? It doesn't make sense. So, let's just let SNS pay the tax, because only SNS is present on RTS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13369	And this is all according to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13370	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13371	This law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and everything you have said is about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13372	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13373	Unfortunately, it isn't, Mr. Obradich. I ask you again – do you want to talk about the amendment? (Bosko Obradovic throws. I thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. You're right. You're being mentioned again. Here you go. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13374	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this professor took my breath, so I have to take care of his health. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I may wish I had the energy of Alexander Wolfich. I'm not Alexander Wolfie. I've never called on him, and you can review all the stenogram transcripts, and you'll see that I never called on the Prime Minister, not even when he was Deputy Prime Minister. I'm Marian Risticevic and I don't have the energy Alexander Vukic has. Maybe I wish I had that commitment, that energy. I don't have one, but I didn't deserve someone to cross me when I was 58. So I was baptized for 30 days. I don't need it when someone wasn't even born, when someone now retroactively wants to be my best man, I didn't deserve to be crossed by anyone, and especially by a person far younger than me, and physically it wasn't possible to do that when I was 30 days old. Maybe he tried to cross John Pernar. He may have been baptized, but neither he nor Ivan Pernar can cross me anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13375	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13376	Dear Chairman, Article 104. You are very interesting to apply this Rules of Procedure, I must admit, so that you give, for example, representatives of the government the right to replica very broadly, and then to the representatives of the opposition in no way does this member clearly foresee in position 1. - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the Parliament group, stating his name, last name, function, etc. I think that if you'd told me, "Senian Nogo Aleksandra Vukic, I'd be offended by the MPs of the ruling majority if you compared them to Alexander Vukic, that's not an insult, let them plead. If it offends them that someone compares them to being like Alexander Wolfich, I welcome it, but I don't see a man having the right to a replica. Please, Mr. Milicevic, no offense is mentioned. You allow them a replica. You allow them to point to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, the members who were indicated, to abuse the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, so simply give us the same, when they mention us that we can give a replica. We have not offended Mr. Risticevic once, nor have we tried to change his name and last name, but we have compared him to his conduct in the Assembly as Alexander Vukic did in his performance, whatever it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13377	Comrade Nogo, what you've come across through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've just done. Through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've replicated the People's Parliament. When you have already called on Article 104(3), it says that the exercise of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly, or chaired in a specific case. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, in the day of the vote, do you wish the People's Assembly to declare itself? No, I don't. I thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13378	Thank you. We heard everything, we just didn't hear a solution to how someone thinks they're funding RTS. We've listened to Demagogue all sorts of things, but there's no solution at all, and that's the feature of a fellow from across the street, that they're criticizing, actually, that's what it comes down to. You know, someone mentioned a singer here, and he actually wanted to say that Mr. Wolf, that it was his level in some duel. You know what, it could even be. At least that singer doesn't learn speech by heart and doesn't learn by heart and doesn't read in her performances, like some of them here, but she does come and say something. But whatever they say, there is no duel. I'm just asking them to determine first, who's your leader of the opposition? Well, to go out with him on a duel, if anyone already has you, who knows how many, and, after all, when Mr. Vukic comes here, you run away first, and that's the difference. Of course, you run away with your head no matter what, and every time you're privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13379	Mr. Djukanovic, let's just get the amendment back. Thank you. Mr. Nogo? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13380	Article 106, he has to talk about the agenda point. I don't see the coming of the Wolf to a duel in the Assembly as the intention of this amendment. So esteemed counterpart Djukanovic apparently made a mistake in explaining. It may have been an earlier amendment and all, but simply, let's improve RTS, and also introduce Vladimir Djukanovic's show to RTS. I think everyone would warmly welcome it and call it – do it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13381	Comrade Nogo, I don't know if you've noticed, but I've just been warned by my colleague Djukanovic to return to the agenda. I don't think you've heard that. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, do you want you or Vladimir Orlic first? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13382	Article 107. - the dignity of Parliament. Because you just heard, when you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a harshly unspeakable truth, or a harshly untrue one in fact, I apologize, which is actually a request for me to be with the RTS show. By the way, my dear colleague was my guest. Then he didn't mind coming to me on the show. I have no ambition to work never on RTS, nor would I ever agree to it in my life. Because I just don't see myself there, but some people would love to do it there, as we heard in this discussion, they'd love to be editors, and maybe even installers on RTS, so that, of course, that television would work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13383	Mr. Djukanovic, I don't think I've done any harm to article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because, for a moment I have spoken of it, I am not able to follow in detail what the MPs say, but that is why you are here to point out the lies, if they are spoken. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13384	Thank you. I was just starting to talk on the amendment, and then we were all shocked that Risticevic gave up Wolf and then I thought I wouldn't be able to talk. Thankfully, you gave Djukanovic a word, so I could get a little bit together. However, from him we have now heard the Wolf come boldly. Well, I hope he gets here bravely on Thursday, since we have parliamentary questions and he won't run away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13385	Mr. Radulovich, I'll give you your time. I'll make up for the time, that's what I wanted to say. I want to warn my colleague Radulovic, he's not talking about the amendment. The amendment reads - Article 2 is amended and reads - this law takes effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You'll get a word for the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13386	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know how you didn't think of that earlier when counterpart Djukanovic or counterpart Risticevic spoke, but obviously remember these rules when the opposition spoke. The question of how to finance a public service, it has been mentioned several times, so let me repeat, since we have said it several times, but the position is made as if it doesn't understand what is said. So RTS needs to be financed from the budget, meaning taxes paid by Serbian citizens by saving money on subsidies, on public enterprises. That would be the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13387	My fellow Radulovich, once again, I would like to ask you kindly to speak of the amendment. Obviously, you do not want to talk about the amendment tonight, and by the way, you mentioned both Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Risticevic, so they both have the right to replication. You, Mr. Ristichevich, want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13388	I don't know why my colleague mentioned my name. Apparently he wants to train his fellow professor, who keeps leaving the room while I speak and violates the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I was mentioned twice by a respected fellow MP, who should know that the extension of the session requires that taxpayers have to additionally allocate money to keep this session going. Besides us, there's a service here that works, there's cameras here, it's all costing, and someone who keeps saying that we're dragging our hands in the pocket of taxpayers, that's exactly what it does, and it's exactly by giving replica rights that extends that time. Unlike him, I haven't escaped from the U.S. Tax Service, and neither of these, I have confidence in that, but I ask him to spare in the future that we who pay taxes don't have to pay all his mistakes, including this right to replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13389	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13390	Thank you, Your Honor. Whether it's Thursday or not, Mr. Wolfie, we'll see it, but I don't think you'd even like him to come here, because that someone who wishes we've heard, and some of them seem to have seen here in the assembly as he's running away bravely. So, I wouldn't look forward to it if Mr. Wolfie came to him. I believe deep down that I will grant him that desire to know which way he will be defeated in a direct confrontation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13391	The word has a proposalary representative, Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13392	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while, let me look back at some of the things that were said here. So the question of what is a public interest, which is a media service, has been repeated several times. To remind you, the Law on Public Media Services lists 19 points, very extensively explaining what a public interest is in public media service. The reserves that have been made here, provided they are correct, that it is the confrontation of political parties and equal participation in political dialogue, is only one part of one of the 19 points. So the public interest that generates public media service has repeatedly exceeded what's listed here as the most important thing, all provided it's true. Therefore, please, if at all possible, we stick to the essence. This way of funding, on the condition that this theoretical setting is correct, that citizens pay it either in one way or that way, it's that same money, whether it's separate one way or another, that's true, it's a matter of methodology that matters of course, but it's not a subject right now, it can be a subject, but we're talking here and we need to talk about something else. This is about the survival of the public media service and the survival of the public interest, and that you have instructed countless times that the essential thing in the public interest is that you or someone else be equally represented, is the matter of debate, all provided that you are right, but it is only one small fragment, a small fraction of the general public interest that public media service should realize. I'll finish this, gentlemen, we're in the field of survival of a public media service, financing it one way or another. I will remind you that the total fund in the collection, through advertising, through the budget, amounts to barely a little more than 70m euros through the tax. Croatia is financing its public media service with 220m euros and small Slovenia with 120, which is the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13393	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. ) You have no basis for replication, you get answers to questions that are asked. So you didn't mention at any point. Mr. Radulovich, do you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13394	That's all I can do. Minister, that's true, of course. But you have to consider this second part of what we're talking about. You need to see what's going on out there. So, you have to systematize jobs, you have to list property, contracts have to be looked at, there are harmful contracts. It's got to be seen. Then when it comes down to it, we'll know how much money it takes and we think it should be paid out of the budget. So, you don't have a new impose on citizens, whether it's called a tax or a subscription, it doesn't matter. Citizens certainly pay taxes. From that tax, it should be financed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13395	Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13396	Well, allow me, if the minister, the chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13397	Well, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13398	... He's talking about this so we can have a normal discussion about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13399	I really want to let you, but you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13400	... But not that they keep attacking Risticevic with their circus in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13401	You really don't have the will to speak by amendment. Let me remind you one more time, 'cause it looks like I have to. The amendment reads: Article 2 is amended and reads - this Law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, mg Marko Milenković, Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, mg Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Branka Stamenković, Zoran Zivković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajić, Aleksandra Cabraja, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Dr Vladimir Orlic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinions of the MP, Dr Aleksandr Martinovic, on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, Members of the People's Parliament together submitted to the same text: Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and mg Marko Milenković, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, mg Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs of mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesana Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović, joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, MP of the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Cabraj, the National MP Branka Stamenković and the People's MP Zivović. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to the amendment to the Law amending the Law on Courts, we propose to delete Article 1, because there is no reasonable reason to amend a member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this 2016 law, which has long been in the transitional and final provisions of the basic text of the law. If the text of the law is read, it is impossible to find it in the law. If a review of the provisions is read, the situation is even more complicated, and when the reasoning is read, it is seen that the Proposer has serious problems that cannot be solved by this bill. You cannot postpone from year to year the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice to the VSS and justify this delay by waiting for the final position of the Constitutional Court and answering whether it is taking over jurisdiction in accordance with the Constitution or not. Legislative processes in the field of court arrangements must be dealt with quickly by system solutions, not by pushing problems under the carpet for a year and, as the ruling majority, you wait for them to be resolved by the Constitutional Court. The obstacle has always been and will be. Who defends you from how much trouble you've already seen sitting down and writing quality and serious amendments to the law. This is how you burden the effectiveness of the National Assembly, and again, we are likely to discuss this bill again in less than a year. Serbia has no time to wait, citizens have given you confidence, they have chosen you to be a government and justifiably now seek better conditions for life and new employment. You can't just say, here in an explanation, we expect the problem of constitutionality to be solved in the next year before the Constitutional Court. On the media you say you expect a better standard in 2018, citizens don't have time to expect you to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13403	I thank my colleague Milenkovic. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, Members of Parliament together submitted... (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Chairman, I answered the word. But you weren't in the system. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: I answered, our amendment was. I read the amendment to article one, right? You mean that amendment in the same text. I asked if anyone wanted a word, a colleague named Marko Milenkovic answered. No one was in the system after him, believe me. (Srdian Nogo, from the scene: A colleague from the SRS called, so I answered. If we didn't have double arches, we'd be back. On my own responsibility, I will return, given that a large number of MPs who have tabled the amendment have registered at the moment. I don't want to take two minutes away from you, but you didn't sign up. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13404	It's funny that everyone in the opposition turns out they didn't sign up. Here's all my colleagues around me say they signed up, but good. It doesn't matter. Let us look at this legislative proposal, that is, our amendments to the same. We demand the erasure of this amendment and the withdrawal of this entire legislative proposal. As you know, the judicial system in Serbia is under great pressure and the victim is, as politicians but not only of political pressures, but of various other centres affecting the work of the judiciary and keeping it in an independent and free performance of its function, so we also have financial pressures, pressures from various companies, interested individuals. Of course, pressure from authorities and political parties. We believe that one such legal proposal is exactly one continuation of the ugly continuity that the ruling majority has been carrying out for five years. It's another thing you've adopted as a practice of action by some of the former authorities. It is scandalous that the subjective feeling of one person, in this case the president of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, is sufficient to engage the entire legislative mechanism. The entire apparatus also means that we sit here and discuss this bill of law, what if, if we were to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, we prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision, or prejudges the motion. The whole legislative mechanism should now be declared on this proposal because it is the will of the parliamentary group president of the ruling majority. Where you will show greater evidence of interference in the work of the judiciary and the judicial system that the MP who is president of the ruling majority brings a proposal that should delay the application of the law because he expects something to happen in the future and prejudge that the Constitutional Court will act. I think it's a scandal and it's real proof that SNS is pressing the judiciary. It is not the only one, there are 650 judges whose papers have not been seen, we also heard Djordjevic, the head of BIA affecting the judiciary, here is Martinovic, who is affecting the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13405	Thank you. Representative Aleksandar Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13406	First of all, Mr. Milicevic, I think it would finally be my turn for those who have submitted the amendments to talk about these amendments. It is impossible for any law to come to the agenda and any law to be spoken of, to pronounce the same sentences, to mention the name of the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic 50 times, to say 150 times SNS did this or that, to mention BIA, Aleksandar Djordjevic. What does that have to do with this amendment? What does that have to do with the bill? What does this bill and the amendments submitted to it have to do with any pressure on the judiciary? Do you even know what the subject of this bill is? Since proceedings have been brought before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of the Courts, which are provided for the affairs of the judicial administration 1. In January 2017, he takes over the High Council of the Justice Department from the Justice Department, right, because you're nodding and you're saying that that's how it is, do you know what the affairs of the judicial administration are about? The affairs of the judicial administration are not involved in solving individual court cases, you should know that. The Justice Department's affairs are conducted by the Justice Department, and they have nothing to do with any judge's concrete treatment in any particular court case. The possibility has been excluded when the affairs of the judicial administration are carried out, that the Ministry of Justice or that any authority of the executive authority in any way influences any court in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13407	A colleague of Martinovic's, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13408	Let me just say two more sentences. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: It's past time, it can't) Here, Sasa Radulovic says it's past time. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13409	Thank you. You'll be in touch later. The amendment promoter has a word, the People's Parliament of Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13410	I thank the chairman. First of all, I really want to assure you that it's impossible, maybe you were wrong, maybe the system was wrong, but we really answered the word. So, I hope that at least that's not controversial. I'd like just one brief note about this session today. We put 27 points in one item of the agenda here. We're talking about, say, the fourth item of the agenda and we see that we're already wasting time. So, there's very little time left. I guess we're not going to talk about a word here, here, now we're talking about the regulation of courts, taxes, excises, the capital market, and given this unification of the debate, we're not gonna get a word of it. So much for that. I'm moving on to the amendment. I suggested that this proposal be deleted because it implies delaying the delegation of jurisdiction from the ministry to the High Council of the judiciary. What would put this off for? This extends the unconstitutional and dominant influence of the executive government. And in what way? Well, there's a Constitutional Court decision waiting. As the Constitutional Court judges choose -- we've just had a chance to see these days. So, it all fits here. Now we're gonna extend this deadline and we're gonna wait for some decision of the Constitutional Court. Why would we do this unless someone had any idea what that decision would be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13411	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Aleksandar Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13412	Because of these MPs who are constantly scaring the public that, apparently, we from the Serbian Progressive Party now want to do something terrible to the judiciary and put some terrible pressure on them. Therefore, the affairs of the judicial administration are in the following: monitoring of the work of courts, collecting statistical and other data on the work of courts, giving consent to the rules on the internal organisation and systematization of court posts, monitoring of the handling of cases in the prescribed deadlines and handling of complaints and presentations, proposing part of the budget for expenditure for judicial staff and for the maintenance of equipment and facilities, and the distribution of these funds, proposing part of the budget for investments, projects and other programmes for the work of judicial authorities, the care of housing conditions, the equipment and security of courts, supervision of the financial and material operations of courts and of the High Council of Justice, the regulation and development of the judicial information system, the development and implementation of capital projects and other programmes for judicial bodies, the establishment and resolution of judicial and interpreters. Now, tell me, in these tax-listed points covering the affairs of the judicial administration, where are the words – Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party and the influence of the executive authority of any ministry on any court in the Republic of Serbia, when it acts in any particular court case? This just confirms that you have no idea about the courts and the jurisdiction of the Justice Department in relation to the courts. You're all telling the same story, whatever law comes to the agenda – hit on Alexander Vukic, hit the Serbian Progressive Party, lie as much as possible, say that we do not know, or me, something bad for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. For you, the best sessions of the general type, what laws, what amendments. Please, Mr. Milicevic, schedule a session without agenda, with one item of the agenda – Differently, because they only know about the point Differently speak and only at the point of various understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13413	It'll be difficult, Mr. Martinovic. Thank you. The amendment promoter has a word, MP Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13414	I thank you, Chairman, for your understanding. I'll speak briefly. I'm pushing for this member to be deleted, which is why I've submitted the amendment. It is about another legislative extension, and with this argument made by Mr. Martinovic, not to delude, it is enough just to keep in mind the ministry's competence at this point, as regards organisation and systematicisation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, regarding the efficiency of the courts, which this society needs, and it is not controversial. But something's not going well with it. As for the procedure before the Constitutional Court, it can be one precedent, that in future at certain times, when it suits someone, the authorities or the opposition, whoever it is, may be, and then ask for the end of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court for that reason. So it's not good to be precedentd. As for the influence of the executive authority in court, it is not the job of the executive authority to deal with the influence of the judicial authorities, but it is also not the job nor the task of the executive authorities to, on behalf of the police authorities, to sue, to provide on behalf of the courts information on who is guilty in advance, the evidence of which is available, whether the singer's killer is known, whether the beatings in May 2015 were beaten by young people in the Great Plan and who is the forger's signatures in the Grand Plan court, where there are dead souls. So someone has to deal with it. Obviously, the way it's working now, firstly, it's possible to happen, and on the other hand there's no responsibility, or responsibility. If it is possible for such a case to happen and if no one is responding, something is wrong and it is necessary to transpose these powers, as the law provides, and my God, if the Constitutional Court now elected is effective, it may already be settled in January of this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13415	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13416	I thank you, Chairman. When considering the reasons for the proposed amendments and the addition of the law we are discussing, i.e. The law on the regulation of courts, all these amendments that are submitted, have about one common goal, which is that they are in fact pointing to something that is not the essence of the reasoning. For the sake of truth, or just the fact, I have to point to something that the citizens need to know. The financial aspect between the ministry of justice and the VSS was defined significantly before 2012. Why? Much before 2012, part of the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction was transferred to the jurisdiction of the VSS. I'm talking about funding and the availability of funding from the budget. On the other hand, as far as the affairs of the judicial administration are concerned, it is true that there is a distinction between what the work of the judicial administration is compared to the jurisdiction of the VSS. Personally, as a lawyer and as a lawyer, I don't think any of this should be transferred to the VSS and the VSS should only discuss personal solutions and nothing more. In this way, the independence of the VSS would be ensured in relation to the judiciary. Everything else needs to be regulated by the Justice Department. However, since we lawyers need to know one fact that is undeniable, that there is always in legal proceedings, in litigation and even in a criminal, previous issue, here can be interpreted just as the previous issue of the Constitutional Court's decision. Why the previous question? Well, because the issue depends on how the process of transferring competences from the Ministry of Justice to the VSS will be further developed. Again, why the previous question? Because this previous issue will solve all the dilemmas, all the misunderstandings now plagued both the VSS and the Department of Justice. I must remind you that there are a large number of persons working in the VSS, a large number of perpetrators who have moved from the Ministry of Justice to the VSS. What are we going to do in case the court's decision is as expected. That these people have to go back to work somewhere. I can't lose my job. I can't be without anything that ties to their working-law status. Their working-legal status must be regulated. In that sense, too, this bill should be observed in that spirit, and I think the amendments point to something completely different, which is doubtful of the bias, impartiality of the choice of judges, which is not at all the essence of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13417	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13418	However, I would refer to the presentation of previous colleagues and that is the attitude, as the distinguished previous speaker said, but we could discuss it extensively. We must now concentrate on what the official proposing has proposed. Mr Martinovic, we have made it clear in the explanation of the amendments that we believe that a member of the 47th uniform methodological rules for the making of the rules has been violated, because you are, in reason, referring to the constitutional court's expected decision. But there is no decision of the Constitutional Court now that it is necessary to make that adjustment. This is how you set up something that is not formally legally founded, but let's go back to what the previous speaker said and what you've potentiald. We have doubts about your bias, even more so than you've bid. We know what the affairs of the judiciary are, and I'm going to remind you that they were recently representatives of the Justice Department here and we've asked them a question concerning the resolution of certain judicial skills. The Department of Justice has been told that they are not in charge of dispensing judicial skills. It means that in the Department of Justice, people don't know what their jurisdiction is. Here, please, then you teach Mr. Martinovic the State Secretary of the Justice Ministry, Mr. Ilic, what is his jurisdiction since he obviously doesn't know that. Learn Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic, meaning, about the release of judicial skills. Nicely, repeat it to them again and read that people are doing their job. I repeat, you're affecting the work of the judicial authorities. I did not mention Alexander Vukic in my amendment, but yes, I also mention Alexander Vukic and the SNS directly affect the work of the judiciary. In particular, in this law, it's questionable that it comes from you. Why is this not initiated by the Ministry of Justice but must be a representative of the ruling majority of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13419	Representative Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13420	Well, first of all, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the right to propose laws belongs not only to the Government but also to the MPs. Is that right? That's right. As the right to propose law I have, so do you and I do not see anything controversial about it. What I would like to hear as an answer, which is in what particular court case is Alexander Vukic, or who from the SNS would press the court to make a verdict or decision in favour of Alexander Vukic or someone from the SNS. The easiest thing to say is that Alexander Vukic puts pressure on the judiciary. What does that mean? You have to say, he put pressure on that and that judge in that and that court case, by doing what he did, taking him to the basement, giving him 100 euros, threatening to get beat up or something. So, I'd like to hear all of Serbia when it happened, in what court case, under what circumstances, etc. One more thing you overlooked to say. I am in the argument why I do not accept the amendment to Article 1 well said if the Constitutional Court decides that it is not in agreement with the Constitution of that Member of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, it must give up, or if it decides that it is, in that case, it is necessary to carry out the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice to the High Court Council. There's no pressure. I was just starting from a reasonable assumption, if a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of that provision of the Law on the regulation of courts is launched, so it is reasonable to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, because as Mr Jovanovic said, what if the Constitutional Court's decision is positive and to accept that the provision of the law is unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13421	Thank you. By amendment, the People's Parliament of Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13422	I thank the chairman. It would only be very interesting for me to ask the promoter to explain how, why, by what method he succeeded in my explanation to learn the name of Alexander Vukic, whom I did not mention at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13423	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13424	This was a fantastic explanation that there was no impact on the judiciary. Of course, things don't work the way MP Martinovic would like to show. The impact on the judiciary goes through various party channels. The citizens know it very well, so I won't explain it any further. So the impact on the judiciary is terrible and we pay the price daily.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13425	The word has a representative of the promoter, Aleksandar Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13426	I think the citizens of Serbia can now see what the difference between you and so-called. European, civil, but what you call yourself, the opposition and us from the SNS. When we call you, we specifically say, you were a bankruptcy manager in that and that company. You've closed that and that hurtful contract. You got so much and so much money. You're mad at that. And I ask you, in that mass, as you say, terrible examples of Alexander Vukic's influence on the Serbian judiciary, to give me one single example. I can tell you how many examples you want where you were a bankruptcy manager and where you and your own firm have concluded contracts on the provision, as you say, in that contract, accounting services, in Kovacica, the Sugar Factory “Dimitry Tucović”, I cannot list all 15 or 16 social enterprises in which you were a bankruptcy manager and in which, but absolutely, you had a contract with your own company in each company. That is why the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers punished you in 2011 when Aleksandar Vukic and SNS were not in power. That's the difference between you and me. You speak casually, and we give you concrete facts. Here, I'm asking you now, tell me one court case, number of cases, name of the judge, which is the court case that Alexander Vukic was pressuring. Tell me, just one case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13427	Replica, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13428	Thank you. So, a series of lies he said. I'm going to give concrete examples of Asumacom Sabrato, beating up a brother, and beating up his brother Cynthia Malo on a parade of pride, a helicopter affair, all the controversial privatisations that ended up in a drawer. Everything he boasted about affects everyone. My lawsuit against him who can't be served for two years, he's running from the courts. The question for Wolfie would be, what are you running from? So every object, wherever a man turns the same thing. And that whole story about these bankruptcys, I'm proud to be protecting employees' interests in those bankruptcys, protecting the interests of creditors who knew exactly what was going on, and those stories about companies are really funny and you're going to have to explain it in the end in court. Serbian citizens know very well what is being done in the judiciary. They know very well that they are different arches for party leaders and for all other citizens of Serbia. A privileged minority, party parasites that destroy Serbia, at every turn. From working through the judiciary, through the subsidies you share. Corruption is in every pore of society. You have the nerve to answer. So I worked against all the thieves who stole. For all there are judicial decisions, those decisions by the corrupt bankruptcy agency have been lifted by the courts. You know that, and so does Alexander Vukitch, who gave you that material, knows clearly that he's telling lies. However, it does not prevent him from speaking and misleading Serbian citizens with such a policy. In April he comes to you for payment and I'll conduct a bankruptcy for you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13429	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13430	Mr. Milicevic, Article 106 has been injured. You, as chairman in accordance with article 27, were obliged to warn Aleksandar Martinovic. Why? The draft law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts is on the agenda. Aleksandar Martinovic listed for two minutes what the merits are and what are the qualities of Saša Radulovic, which is why Aleksandar Vukic proposed him as minister. It's nice to hear, it's good to hear, but you were obliged to stop it and then you allowed Sasha Radulovic to speak for two minutes about how bad Alexander Vukic is and who are all the reasons he agreed to enter the government for such a man and be his minister. They're not good, right, here's what MPs get -- they're not good either, I agree. But their arguments, discussions of ex-friends, former close associates, former so-called. and alleged experts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13431	Mr. Sarovic, enter the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13432	No, I only explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure and what you allowed, and what you must not allow, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13433	I agree, Mr. Sarovic, and I cannot allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure at the moment, and I will tell you why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13434	And I pray that the People's Assembly in the voting day be made known about this violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13435	Of course, thank you. But I just want to remind you that according to article 103, you can point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but immediately after it's done. You are not after Mr. Martinovic's presentation, you have already waited for Mr. Radulovic's exposure. Thank you. First, the representative of Proposer Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13436	Well, I've never met a bigger thief and a fraud than Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13437	Mr. Martinovic, however, please let us choose our words. Please let us choose our words. (National MP Branka Stamenkovic approaches the chair of the chairman. I'm just asking you to step aside so I can run a session. I'm asking you to step back so I can run a session. Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, come in. You know I'm not a timid man. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13438	I completely understand, Mr. Milicevic, it is not easy to hold a session of the National Assembly when you have individuals who act exactly the opposite of the Rules of Procedure and against common sense, but what to do must be done under such circumstances. So, I just want to tell my colleagues who are getting me to insult someone, Sasa Radulovic said to all of us that we are thieves, parasites, bastards and that he will carry out bankruptcy proceedings on us. Now, I just hope, Mr. Radulovic, that you will never again hire E Business Service when you execute that bankruptcy, which, by the way, will never happen, because Serbian citizens will never give you a chance to do so. But here I ask you again -- in what court case has any SNS pressured any judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia? As far as the decisions concerning you are concerned, there is a decision by the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers in 2011 that punishes you with 100,000 dinars, precisely for these reasons that I have stated, because with your own company as a bankruptcy manager, you have concluded contracts on the provision of accounting services. Well, then, you have a decision of the Administrative Court, so after the administrative court's decision, you have a decision of the Agency to license bankruptcy managers. You're talking about subsidies. When you were Minister of Business, you said it was a great idea, that it was the only way we could attract foreign investors to the Republic of Serbia. And tell me, Mr. Radulovic, what bankruptcy procedure have you positively solved for the workers?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13439	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. We've gotten too far from the subject. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Radulovich, I'm a little scared. I'm going to have to take a minute's break, and then I'm going to have to continue on the agenda. Trust me. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. We took a break to keep it going. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, together were MPs Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović, MP Branka Stamenković and National MP Zoran Zivković. First of all, the People's MP Sreto Peric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 153 and 154. The Constitution could be asked whether the High Council of the judiciary has and may have in its jurisdiction what is provided for by the Law on the Regulation of the Courts. But in any case, Mr. Martinovic, as a doctor of legal science, should not have been the one who would propose a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, because he put in place a bad practice. And what's the bad practice? Well, last time, that is 21 January 2016, the High Judicial Council applied to the National Assembly to postpone the application of this law from 1 June to 1 January 2017. And now if it had been done by the High Court Council, it would have been different. There is no reason to do this now and to move, especially what may happen in the coming period that some of the provisions of a law are not liked and then an initiative can be launched to assess the constitutionality of that law and then to suspend the validity of those provisions of that law. I don't think that's right, and it shouldn't have been done. We have another one, I would say, an anomaly, the promoter said that this law comes into force eight days after the day of publication, and then the amendment is submitted and said - the law will enter into force the next day from the day of publication. Probably because this proposal was submitted on December 6th, it was calculated that it would be adopted earlier, and since we arrived by December 27th, this law has not been passed, and then it would come to a legal void. And so far, certain status changes, i.e. employees, have lost their working status, so when some state authorities were reorganized during the change, when some error occurred, they had the right to compensation or compensation and all that was damaged, they were compensated in some procedure, and here it could have happened, so this is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13442	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13443	So we propose to delete this member of the law and repeat that the SNS is affecting the judiciary. I have to answer to my colleague Martinovic, given that his colleague Martinovic has asked a question, as far as his law is concerned. So, the amendment, please, colleague Milicevic, don't listen to the orders of the ruling majority's president, so we demand that this member be deleted from the same reasoning as in Section 1 because we consider it bad and that the evidence of SNS's influence on the judiciary. To the direct question of Mr. Martinovic, I will answer him. He wants to join the EU, right? Well, the Council of Europe...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13444	Mr. Nogo, do you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13445	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13446	Don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13447	Mr. Milicevic, give me back my time. Mr. Nogo, I'll give you your time, but I'm asking you before you want to talk about the amendment that was filed. Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13449	Here you go. Let's start over. We'll make up for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13450	I believe that this amendment does not have a foothold and that it is contrary to Article 47 of the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules and that this law itself is a great scandal for the judiciary, because, on the basis of the will of one man, a whole legislative mechanism is being launched on principle – what if it were, and the Constitutional Court's decision is being prejudged. I repeat, so the judiciary is under a lot of pressure and this law itself is proof that the judiciary is under a lot of pressure. Mr. Martinovic, when he explains it, does not talk about the law at all, but points out one challenge for the opposition to tell him – expect another phone call to Mr. Martinovic and me to offend. Judge Vukinic, Nikola Petrovic and Ac Djordjevic are pushing Judge Vukinic through Stepanovic to exclude himself from... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13451	What difference does it make, Mr. Nogo? Mr. Nogo, I asked you twice if you wanted to talk about the amendment. Obviously you don't want to. The mandated representative of the SNS, i.e. the first representative of the promoter, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13452	If you can answer me one previous question, can I now say that the Dvori are funded by Dusan Petrovic and Sasha Dragina four, five, six years ago and who knows how many years ago, over so-called. old projects, may I say they are funded through a certain Mrs. Jasmine Vujic, who works in...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13453	Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13454	May I speak in the spirit in which these gentlemen are speaking who say that Article 2 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13455	Mr. Martinovic, you noticed that on many occasions I tried to direct my colleague Leg to speak according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13456	It's not a dispute. So, Mr. Milicevic, if those rules apply to them, I guess they apply to me, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13458	If they say that Alexander Vukic is someone who puts pressure on the judiciary, may I say that the Dwarves were created and funded them. They were funded by DS, through the so-called. old projects. They were funded by certain foreign services, funded by certain embassies, and sent here to the National Assembly to play alleged Serbian patriots and the greatest Serbs ever seen. (Maria Janjušević throws.) So, what are you the greatest Serbs?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13459	Now let's get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13460	Now let me get back to the amendment. I don't understand when someone says: because of one man, the whole legislative mechanism is in motion, and because of you, the whole legislative mechanism would have been in motion if you had proposed a law. So you have the same rights in the National Assembly as I do, as well as all 250 MPs. Just to inform you, it seems that you have not read the reasoning of the bill and the explanation of why your amendment is not accepted, I am as a MP, and you have the right to do so, too, initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court accepted this proposal. And again, I'm telling you, it's reasonable...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13461	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13462	Mr. Milicevic, I guess I have some time as a proposing officer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13463	Two minutes, like the ministers. The moment you have the basis for the replica, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13464	I guess I have some time as a proposer, don't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13465	No, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13466	So I have the same time as the applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13467	Yeah, two minutes at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13468	I don't think you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13469	I'm sorry, Article 158. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13470	Just one sentence. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that if proceedings are initiated before the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court accepts the motion to initiate the proceedings, to wait for the transfer of the affairs of the judicial administration from the Ministry to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because this does not only involve the transfer of affairs, but rather the transfer of, or transfer of state officials from the Ministry of Justice to the High Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13471	Thank you. I made up for the time I took through the dialogue we had. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13472	I have to protest Mr. Milicevic. You are really so brutal and after 55 seconds of overrun, you interrupted Mr. Martinovic. You can educate MPs of the ruling coalition on parliamentary rights, but out of this room. Organize a course and, as I recall, there was some counseling about the new MPs. Given that Mr Martinovic is regularly reset, I assume he is a new MP in each term. You have injured Article 158, and this article says how many legislators, or authorised representative, have the right to speak, and that is two minutes after the amendment. Is that a lot, is that small? I think it's too much, but it's someone who's the head of the parliamentary group who'd have to know. If he doesn't know, it's yours to interrupt him, as you interrupt opposition representatives after a few seconds, and each minister spoke 20, 30, 40, here's Martinovic now made a record - 55 seconds. Your dialogue, since you justify it by allegedly making up for the time spent in the dialogue, with it and that education, late, started for only two minutes and 20 seconds, and that was already the time when you had to stop it long ago. Therefore, Mr Milicevic calls on you to lead in accordance with Article 27, so that you respect the Rules of Procedure, and it is much more important that you apply it in the same way as the MPs of the ruling coalition and us from the opposition. They obviously have more rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13473	That's exactly what I'm doing, Mr. Sarovic. I didn't interrupt Mr. Martinovic once, but two or three times. We ran the dialogue much longer than the time you mentioned. I just made up for the two minutes we spent through the dialogue. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13474	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13475	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 27, and I'm not asking you to vote. I don't need any education from Mr. Sarovic. He probably went through that education at Dragan Gilas, in one of the administration boards of public enterprises in Belgrade, but I don't care. I just want to point out one fact that you can check in your electronic system. If I'm not mistaken, the SNS Group has an hour and a half to talk about the amendments. So I can also take the time of the parliamentary group and there's no need to chop me every two minutes when I speak, because I also have the time my MP group has. Now, the fact that the SNS parliamentary group is the largest in the National Assembly, so it bothers someone, and somebody's got eyes, and someone can't handle that fact, that's his problem. I'm just saying, mathematically, how much time do we have? What they've wasted their time is their business. We haven't wasted our time. By my count, and you make sure I'm right, we have an hour and 35 minutes. Let's have an hour and 20 minutes, but either way we have some time, that's extra time, which we can use to discuss the amendments. There's been a lot of amendments here. It's all about everything and everything: Alexander Vukic, the helicopter, Andre Vukic, the gendarmes. There's talk of everything and everything, and I've got to take a little bit from the MP's group's time. I don't like to do this, but I have to do it to show the applicants how much they don't know, how much they don't understand in the affairs of the judicial administration and how much of a problem it's going to be for the state if the Constitutional Court considers that my proposal to launch a constitutional procedure is justified, so civil servants from the Justice Department, meanwhile, move to the High Council of Justice... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13477	I'm going to have to interrupt you so the opposition MPs don't point out again that I have double arches for MPs of the post and MPs of the opposition. Mr. Martinovic, it is my first question to refer to you – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. You certainly have the time of the SNS parliamentary group, but please, for the sake of the record, to say at the very beginning whether or not you're answering... I thought you'd come forward as a proposing representative, not as a MP. We can't play: Business class, replica class. [[Inenja Sarovic, from the place: If you do not give me the replica, then according to the Rules of Procedure.]] Please. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Inenja Sarovic, from the place: If you do not give me the replica, then according to the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13478	Mr. Milicevic, a member of 104 has been injured who says that if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about a National MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group... Aleksandar Martinovic said in his previous presentation that I had completed some education on the boards of directors of Dragan Gilas. I've never been a member of any board of directors of Dragan Gilas...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13479	Mr. Sarovic, you're just making...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13480	Let me just finish. So, you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13481	You're just doing what you're suggesting can't be done... (Inemnja Sarovic, from the scene: absolutely not. ) You are referring to Article 104. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: Can I finish? No, no. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: I have two minutes to explain. Up to two minutes. So you cannot use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate colleagues to Martinovic in a specific case. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: I was just explaining how you were wrong and how you denied me the right to the replica. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Nemanja Sarović, from the place: Let me explain. ) No, you don't. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: How can I explain to you if I do not state the situation in which... You can't explain it to me for one simple reason, because you don't have the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Martinovic, ordered the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a replica, and it didn't hurt you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: If the breach of the Rules of Procedure is possible, then everything is allowed. You've ordered. Thank you. Authorised SNS representative Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13483	I would use the right to reply, Mr. Chairman, for the sake of the crowd.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13484	Mr. Arsic, you've got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13485	Because of a bunch of lies that were brought here. So the easiest thing to say is, the prime minister called this judge and affected this judge, affecting this judge. Lies are hard to defend. It's hard to defend against lies, it's hard to defend against lies. Maybe I'm, as an esteemed colleague says, rude, perhaps even ignorant. Here, I'm the world's greatest ignorant, the most ignorant, but all I said about this speaker was true, and what you're saying is simple lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13486	Comrade Nogo, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13487	Mr. Milicevic, I have the right to both Martinovic and Arsic's replica. So you've denied me one replica. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13488	Allow me, I've allowed the right to reply. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13489	Mr. Martinovic, the Dvori have never been funded by the face you mention, but be careful now, the SNS has been funded by the DS. Mr. Nenad Kovac called Nasha Roming, a man who was cashier of Boris Tadic, was financed by SNS, best man Nikola Petrovic. Let's move on. You're talking about the CIA. Here, today I was asking the question - how did the Army and the RDB, or certain people involved in co-operation with them, and where was the criminal report that went missing when the military judiciary was shut down? Let's help clear that out and brush it up. Listen to the parliamentary question from today. It's interesting that William Montgomery is re-establishing co-operation between the MUP and the CIA military in 2001, William Montgomery, who is the SNS adviser. We don't have anyone from the CIA who's our advisor, Mr. Martinovic. Next, you want to join the EU. The Council of Europe said in an official report that Serbia's judiciary is under strong influence by the executive authority. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Who says? Council of Europe. It's appropriate for you. If you don't believe me already, and I mentioned it to you, you've heard of certain cases, "Asamakum", brother of Alexander Vukic. You've heard of Judge Vucinic. Is something going to happen to me because I said that? Djordjevic is responsible directly. You've heard of 650 judges who've never shown their SNS papers. You heard that the director of BIA through his former law firm represents a business bank. In large frauds, he submits counterfeit contract annexes he knows are proven to be counterfeits. You're getting lawyered up. You guys clear that up. Stefanovic, Djordjevic, Petrovic. It's an influence for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13490	Mr. Nogo... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Right to replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13491	I'm in a big dilemma right now when it comes to the ideological orientation of the Dvora. So I don't understand whether you are now for the EU or against the EU. You say - the Serbian judiciary is not good, according to the Council of Europe. You're asking-- who's your CIA president? So Jasmina Vujic. Imagine what kind of security checks someone needs to go through to work in the U.S. space program. So they're looking at his tenth knee, what he was, what he was doing, who he is, what he's from. Here's a woman who works for the CIA. You're asking me -- how are you funded? Dusan Petrovic, before him, Sasa Dragin, "old projects", has contracts with Marijana, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of euros are invested in a project called "Dveri". Who did you whine on election night to get you into parliament? Do you remember? You searched for foreign observers, but not foreign observers... (Maria Janjušević, from the post: Give this survey board. What are you yelling at so much, ma'am? I hear it well. I'm a little blind, I can't see, but I can still hear it. So, do you remember whose help you asked for on election night? No Russian observers. Do you know whose help they were looking for? They asked for the help of the OSCE observer, the same OSCE representative whose representative at KIM was William Walker, whom Shyptari now wants to build a monument.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13492	I thank my colleague Martinovic. My colleague Jovanovic, I apologize to you once again. I just realized that you asked – on what basis? I really didn't realize you'd come forward after the Rules of Procedure's injury. I would certainly give you my word. Here you go. You have a word. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13493	Mr. Vice President, I am a People's MP. As far as your session is concerned, I need to point out a few irregularities to you, as I can see that you are also trying to stay calm and calm and keep your concentration focused, as this will take a long time, deep into the night, until tomorrow and so on. First you hurt Article 27, and that's the basis of everything, the handling of this session. I know you can't be someone who predicts the situation and you can't get into Mr. Martinovic's brain, so you know if he's the moment he presses the key, or if he's a representative of this bill, or if he's a member of the Parliament who's using and ticking the time of the parliamentary group. Yours was, Mr. Milicevic, and I'm really warning you right now, otherwise we'll call you every time to ask – on what basis Mr. Martinovic is answering. He can speak for up to two minutes and not get over it, and his MP group has time. You know what, we have a situation here and that his fellow MP I see as a new Caliph instead of a Caliph submits an amendment to his bill, so it's not good, and it's good that there's competition between you and Mr. Orlic has such ambitions. Please keep an eye on him and ask him nicely at the moment when the debate takes place under this law, on which basis he appears, because I see that you are not a man who can predict such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13494	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. You're absolutely right. That's what I was talking about. Because I didn't realize that counterpart Martinovic appeared as a national MP, not as a proposing representative. I agree. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Col. Veroljub Arsic first appeared as an authorised representative of the SNS. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've just come to the point of who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth. The "Asumakum" affair is mentioned. So aren't those who have made the whole affair arrested, who have blacked out many businesses? What do they have to do with Andrew Wolfie? Nothing? The easiest thing to do is go out and say, "Here, the Prime Minister's brother did it, even though everyone knows, the guilty exist." They have names, last names, proof. You know, in a court case, the judge has a discretionary right to trust a witness more, but material evidence has to be entrusted with absolute trust, because material evidence is material evidence, something you can't change. A colleague, Martinovic, said -- with whom the great Serbian, Serbian, Serb representatives came in here. Right, with the help of the American ambassador. The story is also true who created the movement that is now seen as a major patriotic force in Serbia. Don't drag me by my tongue to say what happened next to Chukaric Stadium, who was sitting with whom he was sitting, who was handing out envelopes and who he was giving to. Don't pull my tongue. Don't pull my tongue, it won't be good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13496	In accordance with Article 104(3), we are now going to close the circle of replicas and continue according to the amendments. Following the amendment, the amendment promoter, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13497	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment reads - deleted, as stated in Article 2 also in Article 1 - is deleted. For what? Because this bill is completely pointless and it solves nothing. I don't deny there's a problem, we have a problem, but this law won't solve it. What's the problem? The MP Martinovic, the legislator, knows very well that the basic problem with this law is not within the deadlines for implementing certain provisions, but in the fact that these provisions are contrary to our Constitution. This has been warned by the Venice Commission since 2006, when we adopted this Constitution, and it warns that we Chapter 23 will not be able to close until we have implemented these provisions without us being able to implement these provisions while the Constitution is like this. Instead of claiming its political authority to initiate changes to the Constitution, so that we can implement these provisions, because they will guarantee us independence of the judiciary, and we need an independent judiciary because of us, and not because of the EU, MP Martinovic is making a complete ignorance and extending the deadlines maintains the status quo, which corresponds to the ruling majority, which is that the judiciary remains dependent on political interference and that there is no fundamental change, that it never comes to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13498	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13499	I support the amendment of my colleague from the Movement. That's enough. We believe that the judiciary is in poor shape and, behold, we are quoting someone who could be a relevant role model for the ruling majority - Aleksandar Vukic today also criticised the judiciary for Mladjan Dinkic. So, what I'm saying is Alexander Vukitch. Please, just to illustrate that I don't speak casually. We have a problem with Serbia's judiciary and simply, here, I'm trying to find common contact with the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13500	Comrade Nogo, we don't understand each other at all tonight. I've been trying to tell you all along that you have to talk about an amendment that has been submitted to Article 2 that reads - is deleted and Article 2 is deleted. – this law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”. I ask you again, well-meaningly, do you want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13501	Comrade Milicevic, I think I've repeated several times that we believe this whole law should be withdrawn. That's right, it needs to be deleted, it doesn't have to go into effect, do you understand what I'm saying, here, for two hours?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13502	Do you understand that what you just said is a story of discussion in principle, and now we're talking about Article 2?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13503	Let's not get into replicas, please, so let me do the talking. Here's what else is there with this law problematic. For eight years, the last, every month, 35,000 euros... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13504	I can't let you. You can see that I've turned off your microphone for one simple reason, because you can't separate the debate in principle from the discussion in particular, or according to the amendments. By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is going to be short, and it has to be and it has to be. So I don't think we should accept this motion by erasing, just like the previous ones. Neither have we heard in written reasoning, nor have we heard in oral reasoning any valid reason why, for God's sake, it should be done. You intervened when it came to these dishonest patriots, and I won't take it into consideration. When it comes to the promoter who explained it here, referring to European institutions, chapters and negotiations, it is all a simple farce. And to be clear about that, it's clear to anyone who, for example, goes to the proposalor's site and sees that in the open, a few days ago, they advocate a suspension of European integration. They don't care if we understand each other. And this is so she doesn't adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13506	By amendment, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13507	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13508	Wait a minute, 10 minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13509	Thank you. A colleague of Orlic, i.e. Not to speak directly, counterpart Orlic argues that I am solely calling for something that the EU and the Venice Commission are asking us to do. I must say that, in preparation for the address in this assembly under this amendment, I have reviewed the stenographic notes of the previous assembly, when this deadline was extended last time, as is now required to extend this deadline. Then Minister Selakovic, the senior SNS official, here, in this home, and it is verifiable in the stenographic notes, said the same thing I just said, that we must implement these legal provisions in order to close Chapter 23, because these provisions guarantee the independence of the judiciary. On the other hand, we cannot implement them because they are opposed to our Constitution. I want to know why the proposer of this law is being ignorant, so now the Kobajagi are putting up with some constitutional initiative, and he knows what will be answered by the Constitutional Court, why has he not invested his political authority in these last five years, that this problem is being resolved, not because the EU requires us to do so, but because we need an independent judiciary? Not because of the EU, we need an independent judiciary. In that sense, this bill, not only finds it pointless to solve this problem, but also to be dishonest and hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13510	By amendment or what? Replication to direct mention, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13511	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that sometimes in an act of excitement because of the bile polemics, someone misses to hear something and wash it all out. So, just in case we didn't understand each other, here, you see how well-intentioned I am, I don't think it's a bad intention, it's a simple misunderstanding. Come on, a little more precisely, it is not disputed either what Minister Selakovic says at any time, it is not disputed either what the Venice Commission says or what it says in the Action Plan. What did I challenge? Motivation, the story of the amendment's proposing that he cares for European institutions, European integration, what it says in any chapter. I challenged that story and I said – it's an dishonest story, it's an ordinary farce. Why did I say that? Because the political organisation of the amendment's proposing, you know, everyone very well, that's the association of citizens who falsely represent themselves for what kind of movement, a few days ago, defined that it's no longer for integration. What did they say? They are for, I quote, to suspend European integration. Where did they say that? Here, anyone can go, as I am now saying, to check the web site of this political organisation, an article titled – On Eurointegration, from 11 December of the current year, copyright, foreign policy, the EU, and so on, and so on, signed the author's text as an author's work by the MP of the people's mentioned association that pretends to be movement, by chance by some vice president there. This is what he says – our plan, their plan, implies a one-year suspension of new integrations, and so on. Why they made such a plan is more than clear, in order to get politically close, to identify themselves with dishonest patriots, otherwise for your information, it's the same thing as fake patriots, only better said. I had an obligation to pass on this, I promised one of the leaders. So everything they say, and they call for a European, is usually a farce and it is dishonest throughout the story, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13512	Thank you, colleague Orlic. My colleague Stamenkovic? (Branka Stamenkovic, from town: Replica. ) There has been talk of a proposing representative, you are not the only representative of the proposal. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the post: How about an amendment? The amendment can do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13513	I just wanted to thank you, first of all, for promoting the pre-election idea of the movement, enough was in an attempt to unite the healthy forces that still exist, which are some opposition in Serbia to oppose the currently ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13514	Thank you. Comrade Radulovic, do you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13515	I thank SNS representatives for reading our program and promoting us on television. I wish you more time to read our programs, but your job would be to deal with the law, and that's not what you do. And you don't practically have any reforms. All you're doing is trying, undermining, trying to insult and disdain. But it doesn't work, it speaks much more about you than anyone else. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13516	Comrade Radulovich, you've been given a word after the amendment. The amendment reads - Article 2. The bill - it's deleted. Ah, Article 2. – this law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment and rejected amendments to the position of the 4th member cannot be discussed and are not voted on. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13517	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say thank you to the board, and God forbid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13518	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović, Jovo Ostojić, Sreto Perić, Marina Ristić, Milorad Mirčić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Momcilo Mandić, Marko Milenković, Tomislav LJubenović, Nikola Savić, Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Miljan Damnjanović, Bozidar Delić, Natasa Jovanović, Petar Jojić, Boško Obradović, Srđan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marijan Ristić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Žerić, Goran Radan Žaljan Žilić, Radan Žilić, Radan Žilić, Šilićić, Šilić, Šilić, Šilić, Šilić, Šilić, Žalić, Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Š. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić, together Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović, and together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolović, National MP Zoran Zivković and National MP Sasa Radulović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13519	Finally. Mr. Milicevic, I would ask you to tell us how much time we have for this debate in particular since you put this together? Well, we'd like to do a little parchment, we have 13 laws left, so that that scandal doesn't happen like last time, if you'd just read the names of the applicants for four laws. If it's not a problem, here's what I'm going to do after the amendment, and you do the math here so that we know how much we have to share, because we have more important laws to go on. You're right, I know I'm smart. It's a common-known thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13520	Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13521	Praise me man, how to offend him. I can't insult him, your countryman. Why did we submit the amendment to the first member? Because everything that is changed by this bill in Article 1, it already exists. So it already exists. This article refers to definitions. So all the risks that exist on the financial market are already defined, credit, financial, commodity, etc. So this is unnecessary to change. But we have to say why it's changing. It is replaced by that unmistakable terminology, because this basic text of the law, including these changes and additions, failed transcription, a translation that is very bad. Very bad. But these changes won't do any harm to the Republic of Serbia either. Why? Because this market almost doesn't exist. Let me draw your attention right now, this isn't just about values, it's about financial instruments. This is where these new brokers, drug dealers, and so on, count on... We don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13522	Time, thank you. The bearer, Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13523	We have suggested erasing this member, as well as all other members of this law for a simple reason, the first reason we think there is no capital market in Serbia is one big problem. Secondly, by adopting one law and by regulating and intervening the capital market, you cannot start the capital market and you cannot start either the economy or the economic cycles, but you must do so with economic policy measures. So, therefore, the reasons behind this law are pointless and we simply have to respond, we need to answer you in the way you treat the opposition, i.e. the general legislative body of the Republic of Serbia. Here's the second time we've changed this law in a year. You bring it in the chosen procedure and you place it with 27 points of the agenda, and even that market that doesn't exist, you don't want to do it in a more comprehensive little way, and of course there are many interests that don't respond to it, but they want the stock market to remain undeveloped, so let's just say the banks, first of all, have a great interest in keeping these rules of play unregulated and that the situation stays the way it is, and you just stick your head in the sand. So, you bring certain changes that may not be so bad, but you don't regulate them in a whole way and in a whole way, and that's why we're against this member, that's why we're against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13524	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, the applicant.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13525	Thank you, Chairman. The congregation's been working for ten hours. The employees have already arrived at eight. We are breaking the Labour Act, the fourteenth hour of work for employees in the congregation. And it's not a question of MPs. It's a question of people who work here all this time. To what member did you think, or law do you have the time to hold a debate today?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13526	Do you want to talk about the amendment, or do you want to entertain the people?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13527	I demand that we stop breaking the Labour and Rights Act and stop the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13528	Thank you very much. So you broke the Rules of Procedure and you talked about what you didn't get your word for. I'm sorry, but you didn't spend your two minutes. Your right. One of the promoters, is there any left? It's not. Zivkovic can't. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13529	I think the government is right, and since my colleague Rodney has fallen asleep, I'm gonna give up my argument here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13530	The 1st amendment was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. Is he here? No, I don't. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlić, and MPs of the Democratic Party Group, and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Jovo Ostojić, and Zoran Zivković and Sasa Radulović, together. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13531	We demand that we delete this member of the law, because I repeat, if you had a good intention, you would have passed a more comprehensive law that would have been in the process for longer. This is all you want to bring this law into line for the second time in a year with EU directives, and we will still have the same problems that we have on the capital market. Everyone knows that audit reports and financial reports are being purchased, that they are unreliable and that corruption is booming, and nothing is being done to suppress these bad customs. Most owners can do whatever they want and in no way do you protect minority shareholders. The Securities Commission itself, which we discussed the other day, in fact recently, is doing nothing to protect minority shareholders. Also, these amendments to the law do not address the issue, because you allow the capital market not to develop, that it does not exist. Because if you wanted to, you wouldn't have allowed monopolies thanks to the policies being made, whether they were domestic, whether they were foreign, that all companies, or all of the stock companies, are concentrated on the property of one person, that those unfortunate people who have actions, and we all know how they went from the "C Market", through the AIK Bank, the latest example, the same BEKO earlier, and here are now BIP and many others, leave at mercy and not mercy and simply do not respect private property. There is no capital market in Serbia. This law serves only to cloud the eyes of the EU, i.e. to fulfill some of their warrants, but they themselves are not interested in doing this, because it is appropriate for them to rob this troubled people, that these foreign companies from the EU bring out the resources from this country in a legal and illegal way, the material goods that we achieve. Let's pass a law that would protect minority shareholders, which would protect ordinary people in Serbia, who would protect Serbian citizens. There are no such things here and there are no such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13532	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13533	I have to get the amendment. The amendment to Article 2 covers everything from members 73 to 90 and members. These are all inside information that can be owned by those acting on the financial market. Now, specifically to Article 2. The draft law is amended in Article 73, that is to be applied, and only in the part that this protection or prohibition of the abuse of inside information applies to video contracts, contracts executed, but that already exists, it all exists. However, a much bigger mistake has been made here. Now I'm going to tell you, that's the mistake the minister of traffic made for me, and the mistake is being looked at in the next one. All the concepts used in this law in the male grammatical race include the male and female gender of the person to whom they apply. That's what the Transport Minister told us, that this standard, that without it, there must be no law in Serbia that exists. Who ordered it? Ordered by the Commissioner for Gender Equality. And in 15 laws, we put this member in. This same government says-- well, it's just a matter of work, that's out of the question. On this case, I'm showing how this government works. This government works by no system, no communication, what it can do in some laws, in others it's forbidden. I don't know, here the authorities would have to somehow intervene between ministers who come to represent the government, to accept in a unique way what was accepted a week ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13534	Time, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13535	Once again, the chairman, you are violating the Labour and Rights Act in the National Assembly. Stop the session. Over 14 hours, people are working.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13536	Just keep working, don't worry. The service is organized to work. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13537	Thank you, Chairman. Of course this amendment should be rejected. It is clear to me why the Devere parliamentary group does not understand the need for further regulation of this law when it comes to the capital market, because for their head of the parliamentary group, the capital market is the next and the next fact, which is that 21 members of the Cacchak Assembly must pay their fee of 16,000 dinars to the head of the Devere parliamentary group almost to hand over after each session, which is on average 336,000 dinars per session held. In addition, they have a warrant for each session to obstruct, from one device to four sessions, so it comes out to a million and a half dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13538	Please, MP, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13539	For this reason, this committee group does not understand what it means to regulate the capital market, as money is made on the capital market, because it absolutely does not correspond to them for that reason and is proposing such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13540	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13541	Thank you. At first, I would just like to explain, because of the citizens of Serbia, that what's being talked about here and what's mentioned in the interpretation of the amendments, that they change and supplement the law here to cover their eyes, to further create an atmosphere for malfeasance, etc., I really want to do so, without further discussion of this, to say what this is about, that in this amendment and supplementation of the law are actually tightening criminal provisions to prevent any malversion and abuse on the market. Also, to give more information to the Securities Commission, to prevent market abuses and strengthen the capital market in Serbia again and thus to prevent market abuses. So it's really pointless to say that something is completely contrary to what is obviously in these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13542	On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together from the Dveri Group, together by the MP groups DS and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Zoran Zivković and Sasa Radulović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13543	I'd just draw your attention if the government's representative didn't talk about the amendment at all, the story of good expectations, but I'll talk about the amendment to Article 3. This is where you suggest erasing something that already exists. What's the reason? So all this stuff that's being inserted, it already exists in section 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Look at these provisions that change, you'll see, what's been crossed, it's now written only in capital letters. Why is this changing? Because the Securities Commission has almost been elected, on a proposal of course by the majority, but there is a narrow proposal, which is the finance minister. Because the government's work programme said it would strengthen the financial market, that the state would go with a much larger amount of these financial derivatives, etc., but these provisions do not concern state and charter than the values issued by the state. It can be said that first of all, it concerns these two stock exchanges, one financial and one stock exchange. A completely unnecessary change. What's changing? What's going on right now is being written. Why? Because it's a new translation. The complete Securities Commission, of the famous Miljko, has started with bad translations and we have this law that is hard to understand, and especially is not understood by those in the Securities Commission. What's the situation in the Securities Commission, you had a chance to hear about it a month ago when you chose those members, and you got all of them and they elaborated on the merits.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13544	Time. Thank you, MP, we've won. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13545	Thank you. The labour law prohibits the employer from keeping employees for more than 12 hours, explicit provisions of the Labour Act. The president of the assembly ignores it and shuts down the microphones... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13546	I only turn off the microphone for those who completely miss the amendment on the bill we're discussing. 'The word is Bosko Obradović, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13547	The Honorable chairman, as soon as you had to return, means someone from the top intervened and said things had gotten out of hand and that it was urgent that order should be put in place, so that Martinovic would not be as red as he currently looks. But let's go back to the amendment and Article 3 of this law. I find the most interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment was rejected, which among other things also proposed by the Dvori. It says – at the same time, it would make it impossible to comply with EU legislation, i.e. Directive 2014/57/EC and Regulation 596/2014/EU, thus fulfilling the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Now, I really like it when you write so nicely that all the laws that you make are actually implementing the directive from the European Union, the most different obligations you have made when the EU congratulates you on winning the second round of presidential elections, three hours before the vote is closed, in 2012 and now you, of course, have to fulfill all those directives. You are not interested in the Serbian capital market, our domestic economic interest, or the interest of the citizens of Serbia, it is obvious that you are the key directive of the European Union. So let Serbs and citizens of Serbia disappear. Let the state of Serbia disappear. Let us all be poor. Let the foreign banks rob us. Some foreign firms do not pay taxes in Serbia for their profits. Let only foreign banks and foreign firms be satisfied and let everything else fail in Serbia, but EU directives must be respected. Right, Madam Minister? The Bible for the Serbian Progressive Party is the European Union's directives. When you wake up in the morning, you must be ordered through college to do what you will do that day, and you are working in accordance with EU directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13548	The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13549	This is a follow-up explanation that we get from an MP group that actually doesn't know what amendment it's about. Previously, they discussed the amendment concerning share capital and small shareholders, which is the second law, is not this one. In this article, it's good that they read what the government says, because they don't know what it's about. This is about protecting market participants, i.e. that the video, the goods contracts become protected by insider information. And it's okay that it exists in the European community, but it exists in all financial, both primary and secondary markets. By erasing this member of the financial market, which you are right, it is the problem in Serbia. It would be even more unstable. The insider information behind us would be even more rigorous. That is why this proposal, in fact, is a proposal to regulate and protect both small shareholders and other participants in the financial market.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13550	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13551	By amendment, the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I would like to complete the presentation of fellow Members from our parliamentary group. When we talk about European directives, we should remind both the public and the citizens of Serbia that the Association and Stabilisation Agreement with the European Union has been signed by those with whom the proposing sat on the ballot when he entered this assembly. Therefore, what we stand for, as the Serbian Progressive Party and this Serbian Government, this European path and the continuation of what is in the interest of all Serbian citizens, and this Article 3, which we simply want to show that mechanisms in market regulation must exist, that rules must exist, that the state must simply control all those activities on the market that would harm not only the citizens of Serbia but the businesses of Serbia at all, must be defined. That's why it's strange that the motionary asks this member of the law to be deleted. Simply, at this point, and in each of the following, whenever the proposal is proposed -- it is deleted, it is simply necessary to ignore this way of even treating the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13552	To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13553	Ladies and gentlemen, since this sports team of mine ran away, I think the government is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13554	To Article 4. Amendments in the same text were tabled by MPs together from the Dveri Group, together the DS Parliamentary Group, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13555	Now we come to the part of the law that regulates the ban on paper trading based on insider information and it's a practice everywhere in the world. But I ask the question, for the past six years of the previous law, who in Serbia has ever been caught and tried and prosecuted for acts based on insider information trade? Because in practice, it was an extremely common case. So many examples were that based on this insider information certain business decisions and business moves have been withdrawn, so in the past six years we have no case of anyone being caught and processed for one such act. But we welcome further precision of this provision, only the problem is that the constant provisions remain a dead letter on paper. We ask the question and why it is exempt from the trade of paper from the values issued by the National Bank and the state of Serbia, because it is wrong, everywhere in the world is normally traded with such charters, because on the basis of secondary trade prices and instruments traded. It would have been a better law if we had been more comprehensive, but, obviously, here was a specific European Union task and the concrete interest of the European Union was at stake. We, unfortunately, never do anything in the interests of Serbian citizens, however angry the ruling majority are, but it is a practice and it needs to be revealed. Simply, you are working in the interest of the EU, or you are only doing what you are ordered to do, and you are not thinking about a broader picture and the interest of citizens. I'm saying again, you don't have a capital market and what are we even talking about? There is no capital market in Serbia. Dot. That's just plain clear. It can't be traded because, uh, what's ruined is that all the property is allowed to concentrate in the hands of a small number of individuals, they're domestic, they're foreigners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13556	Goran Kovacevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13557	It is true that the financial market in Serbia is in a difficult crisis and this is because you do not have financial derivatives on which you can trade on the market. It's not the result of this government's poor functioning, it's simply a difficult economic situation. In part, I can agree with you that these laws that we are now and today are being regulated by what was not arranged six years ago and that there must have been a number of insider information that affected the financial market. We can have different political views, but the fundamental question is, why are you asking that something that's better today, and you're saying it's better, it'll probably be better, which didn't exist, should be deleted? The political attitude is fine, I understand that it needs to be deleted, but, in order not to erase, in order for it to be better, I cannot vote for your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13558	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not surprised that this amendment defends itself against some MPs. There are more types of paper than value, you have debt charters of value, you have property records of value, but they're even against paper of value. You know, you have the primary emissions of securities of value, you have secondary emissions of securities of value, or of trading on the secondary paper market. They would like everything to be primary, that Topcider works full-time and that when citizens get paid they immediately run to the bank and from the bank to the dealer, to buy on the streets of the euro. How much? From one salary, two, three euros. That's their plan, and that's how they promise Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13560	You can pick up the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13561	I think I've earned the right to reply, to explain, since apparently the previous speaker didn't understand me very well, but good, because attitude 104, if he's misreading me. I've pointed out, Mr. Arsic, that it's just that it's very difficult not to develop here and that secondary trade in charters issued by the National Bank and the State. So you didn't listen to me, but okay. I didn't see if you were in the O.R., so let's just get this straight. Secondly, what you would say to Alexander Vukic, when we had a conversation here in the National Assembly, he himself said that he absolutely agreed on the primary show and that it was a good thing, but he told me directly, what would happen to Serbia and that he would make EU chaos if he did it even though it was a good thing. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13562	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Can you get the amendment, because I didn't give the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13563	Well, here, you know what, the chairman, those things that are verifiable prove to us whether someone's telling the truth or not. And I was just accused of not being in the O.R. while my colleague was talking, and I was sitting here, I didn't move. Therefore, let the citizens judge for themselves who is telling the truth and who is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13564	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13565	There's no Professor Pavlovic, running away, I don't know. Thank you. The government's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13566	Thank you. The 5th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs of the Dveri Group, together with the DS parliamentary group, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic, MP Zorna Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Dveri parliamentary group, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đurisic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic, submitted to the 6th amendment. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović, submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, Zoran Zivkovic and Saša Radulović submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13567	Thank you. Rodney won't go to the duel, he's gone to sleep. No need to explain, I think the government is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13568	Thank you. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović, submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13569	The amendment to Article 9, it is a stop on Article 85 of the original text, and the title above that text is – Manipulations on the market. The Capital Market Act was passed in 2011, so it suffered one change in 2015, and you are proposing this amendment, among other things, because one regulation was adopted there in the EU in 2014. So what was in the EU in 2014 is probably included in this change since 2015, and perhaps not. Perhaps the power of manipulation has progressed in the meantime, so someone warned you that you should include it. But it doesn't matter that much. The important thing is that basically all of these changes are found in the SAA. It was adopted on 9 September 2008. It is an important date, because it was then on its way to a legal-political and economic Sunflower of the Republic of Serbia. It's just our luck that for a long time, the capital market won't live in that size as anybody wanted it to be. I mean the volume of trade, financial derivatives, etc. And it saves Serbia, so it can survive, because obviously the day is nearer when all those who say Serbia should go towards the EU will be ugly to cheat and repent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13570	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13571	If these athletes don't come back, the government is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13572	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović, submitted the 10th amendment. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13573	I think according to this amendment, the government is right, and these athletes are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13574	Thank you. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović, submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović and Marijan Risticevic submitted the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13575	I think these guys found another coach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13576	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic, submitted the 13th amendment. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13577	If only they hadn't gone to the casino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13578	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović submitted the 14th amendment. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović, submitted the 15th amendment. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenković, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to the Amendment to the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Capital Market Act, we propose to delete Article 16 because there is no legitimate market reason for amending and supplementing this law, which was passed in 2011 and amended in 2015. Here it is not the essence of the government's reasoning for not accepting this amendment and the launch of a commercial criminal procedure against a person who is violating the Capital Markets Act, but it is in fact another draft law that has come before us as a result of your path to the EU and the violent alignment of our laws with EU rules. Even now, in this bill, you do not fully comply, but only partially fulfil the obligations arising from the SAA, which is an unequivocally suggesting that this bill is not final, but that its amendments and additions will be found before us again. Just because of such a relationship to the capital market, this amendment, which the SRS parliamentary group is trying to influence you to give up a pointless path to the EU that leads an exploitation policy towards small countries, sees them as a common market for their goods, without the possibility of a reciprocal exit, and we all know the difference between our apples, pears, grapes, and other fruits and plastics that they eat in the EU without smell and taste, but does not give us exports by inventing meaningless conditions. Our amendment is, in fact, the consequence of your goal, which you want to achieve by adopting this bill, which is more protection for investors and market liberalisation. When it comes to protecting investors and guaranteeing capital, the SRS adds that at the same time a Serb worker must be protected, as it rests both this country and this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13580	Thank you. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13581	Since I don't have a team on this exercise, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13582	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted the 18th amendment. Marijan Rističević submitted to the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13583	If anyone sees them, let them say I'll share their reproofs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13584	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Zoran Zivković and Sasa Radulović, submitted to the 19th amendment in the same text. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović submitted the 20th amendment. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13585	Ladies and gentlemen, they seem to have had enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13586	Members of the Dveri parliamentary group together, together with DS, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic, submitted the 21st amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13587	Madam Chairman, I received a promise from Milicevic, who before you was to inform us - how much time left for the end of this debate in particular so that we could plan time for the next laws, so I didn't get an answer? Now, I'm gonna use this amendment, so if you can answer this question for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13588	I can ask the service, because I don't keep records. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. You've received a report from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, Marijan Risticevic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, together by MPs of the Dveri group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13589	Thank you. Since they didn't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13590	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13591	I didn't understand this amendment, but fine. Let's move on. As far as this law is concerned, we propose to delete this member, as well as all other members. First, by declaring its political position that it is incorrect to make one such agenda, to bring together 27 points within a very short period, and 27 points that have no contact and relationship with each other, so that we simply believe that I am the proposer of the agenda and the applicant himself, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, were neither well-intentioned nor worked in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Also, as far as this law is concerned, the whole law points to one very dangerous thing, which is that it is preparing to sell the remaining major state-owned companies and banks, which have the capital of the Serbian state. That is why we feel that one such law should be withdrawn, that is, the provisions of this law should be deleted. What else is left for the citizens of Serbia? Only those last resources that haven't been destroyed, destroyed and sold out over the last 16 years. Now it's obviously time to put that dot or that cream on the cake and make the last resources like the airport, like the Commercial Bank, like all the remaining vital enterprises sell out and sell out. That's no good at all. Also, I remind you that there should be minority shareholders here, to protect minority shareholders...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13592	This is about the governing bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13593	There, so much, in general, about the whole law. I wouldn't pick up any more amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13594	Okay, well, it's not all the law in general, it's this member. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13595	Yes, it is, Article 1. The draft law is being amended accordingly in Article 2 of the basic text of the law on something called concepts and you are right here. Add 6a. It's a list of organs, completely unnecessary. It was already in the law. I have to draw attention to the fact that there's just one thing that's going on. For example, in that Article, point 8., point 2, the definition of the central deposit register and the clearing of securities of value is given, and the exact opposite of Article 262. The capital market law, and then in point 9, the Commission's definition of securities of value and, of course, the exact opposite of Article 215 is given. The capital market law. So these changes and additions need to be interpreted, first of all, as a free literary composition, where one root is actually done, only one very significant change, when it comes to taking over these stock companies, where the percentage of that capital is increased, etc., the estimate of that asset. However, this law does open up some dilemmas. It has been since 2006, so it was changed in 2009, then in 2011. A good part of the takeover business is over. There's a few more to finish, obviously. In some of the following members, we're going to show what this is about, but I can't get an answer to the question -- how much longer do we have than 10 hours, because we have more important these VAT laws, tax procedures, excise duties, so we wouldn't want to waste time on this bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13596	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13597	I call on him not to accept it anyway. It is a very appropriate explanation that the government has stated that they have not provided any convincing reasons for the possible acceptance, that they are not written, so neither are they oral now. And I certainly don't think that the arguments, or the story of the united agenda, or the principle debate, and the least sale of the airport in principle are all what we would say – how little Perica imagines the work of MPs in Croatia, says Little Perner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13598	What do you say, Krasic? (Zoran Krasic, from a place: Is there a word about the amendment? ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13599	Because of the public, Madam Chairman, so far it has been said that the shareholder of the target society is the shareholder of the action, within the meaning of the law governing the capital market. Such a proposal, virtually alterations and additions, removed complete inaccuracy as regards these provisions and therefore there is this 6a member, which says that management bodies are directors, i.e. the Board of Directors, Supervisors, Executive Directors, or Executive Board, i.e. Executive and Management Board and Banks. So it's fully detailed what the governing bodies are. That's why I really don't understand the need for a proposal to erase something like this. Therefore, such an amendment must not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13600	Thank you. The word has Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13601	Indeed in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching us here and following us, I ask that we be truly responsible for what we say. You mentioned here, talking about an amendment to this law, an airport and how the Republic of Serbia is destroying further resources in Serbia. I really hope so, and I want to believe that MPs know that airport traffic has been more than doubled in the last five years. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who mentioned it? ( b) National MPs who have spoken of their amendment. So in 2012, we had 3.3 million passengers, in 2015 4.8 million passengers. Come on, please, let's talk facts and not twist the truth here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13602	Thank you. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulovic, Marijan Risticevic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic, MPs of the Dveri group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13603	My fellow farmer went to cut off the winter vineyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13604	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13605	Let's just get one thing out of the way. I never mentioned airports or trucks or planes at all. Please don't put me in the same basket. Take care. I'm very precise. Since the amendments to the first article and amendments to the second article have their logical link, I only draw your attention that in Article 1 you deleted the text - when the target company does not have a board of directors in accordance with the law governing companies, the provisions of this law on rights, the obligations of the board of directors shall be applied accordingly to the relevant bodies of the company prescribed by the law governing the company. That's completely clear. If there is no board of directors, if there is a supervisory board, if there are any other alternative authorities, it shall be applied to them and there shall be no need to change them. Please, you don't have to twist my words. I speak very precisely, and as far as joint action is concerned, so these faces that you have now inserted into article two, they are already covered by that law. There's no change in that. These are merely literary compositions to multiply the number of these members, so that something happens that we don't talk about very important laws. This is an important law, but for citizens, more important excise laws, VAT, tax administration, public property. I have not yet received an answer to the question - how much time until the end of the debate in particular at all points of the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13606	He'll get it. You know that MP Radulovic sent the employees away. Told them they only worked 12 hours. What do we do? I'm sure you've got a record. Come on in. I'm just missing time for MPs. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri, together a parliamentary group of DS. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri, and DS. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, together with the Dveri parliamentary group, and DS. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, submitted the 5th amendment together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13607	Thank you. We intervened with two amendments to this law, not by proposing to delete all members, but by wanting this one important law to make some proposals and this intervention here should, in our opinion, ensure a better position of small shareholders. The government has rejected this amendment, giving one longer explanation, most likely to reject all amendments in this law, but considering that the solution it offers better protects small shareholders, which we believe is not true. I think the fact that this law in principle has not been said, I think, not a single word, that here I have read and tried to understand the urgency of this law, a law that has not otherwise been changed since 2011, and now here it says - why we are bringing about an emergency procedure - in order to comply with changes and additions to the Capital Market Act in order to prevent harmful consequences on the capital market, and all of this is aimed at developing a culture of corporate takeover and improving stability and the development of the financial market. So, very serious reasons, but none of them are for an emergency procedure, especially not to, to lead after all day before 11 a.m. this debate, and with the awareness that we are facing very important laws that Serbian citizens will certainly understand better. We believe that our solution is better, which we have proposed, that no practical position should be found in this amendment and the addition that the Government has proposed, and that this amendment would provide greater protection for small shareholders who have been left at the mercy and unmerciful, as it says here, may have been the only protection against the courts so far, and by adopting these changes and the additions more, and that protection will not be possible for them. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damnjanovic, a joint member of the Dveri parliamentary group, DS. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13608	Ladies and gentlemen, just so the sweaty waters don't get drunk somewhere. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I applied for the amendment. ) Ambassador Marijan Risticevic has the same rights as you. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13609	Our idea with the proposal for this amendment was not to tell jokes and jokes, but to seriously intervene and think that this article 7 is harmful and that a better formulation of how it exists today in the law, and that these changes will not be reduced, but rather, the door will be opened with additional malversions and abuses. What I think is wrong, first of all, is that we get one thing to refuse the amendment, as someone said here, "breathing the pace" of the argument. For almost all amendments to this law, it is a reason not to accept that it is not accepted for the reasons set out for not accepting Article 1. The bill submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic repeats it for each of these submitted amendments, which say that a certain member is deleted. I don't think it's an easy way and that the bill promoter had to explain why the changes to the original law are better, more meaningful, more celebular, whatever you want, than what the government is proposing right now. It didn't happen, and it further mulls this debate. So now we need to run over these amendments here, to adopt this important law that hasn't been changed for six years, and that without any explanation of what the motionor's intention is, what the changes are, and how it's going to affect the lives of the citizens, we move on and move on. We think it's bad, and we're sorry that we got into this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13610	The services to tell me, and you sit back, which amendment did Marko Djurisic answer, which member? To article 6, where are the applicants Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic and these parliamentary groups? Yes, and Marijan Risticevic on the amendment behind. That's right. So MP Djurisic asked for a word before I even read it. No problem. So, two amendments, especially Risticevic, especially Djurisic. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri, and DS. The Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13611	We have also submitted an amendment to this article, as we have to all members before and after this because the position of the SRS parliamentary group that the Act on the takeover of stock companies should not have changed. This law has already been changed. The point is also when this law was passed that we thought that such a law should not exist at all in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that this law should not be passed, because there has been a lot of malfeasance, a lot of crime and changes that you are proposing today will not be moved in a positive way. So this is an absolute waste of time and the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of these laws, we've already talked about, are changing multiple times and show that you're passing laws that you know in advance are inapplicable, that you're going to have to change, that you're extending the deadlines. This is all about one unserious relationship with the obligations you have towards the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Your laws and all of these today, and this Article 7 that we are talking about, are merely meeting the requirements that you are required by the European Commission. Half of this, believe me, is that you don't understand why you're bringing it, or why you're changing it, or when you're going to change it again, but it's really interesting what was written in the explanation that all our amendments... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13612	Time. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, together by MPs of the Dveri group, and DS. Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13613	This law, when adopted at all, is not legal in an adequate way, the corresponding capital market in our country and the current economic situation, has made normation and this member is also spoken of in the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which is a voluntary takeover offer, is now amended and it relates to the obligation, i.e. the optional publication of the offer of capital. The law when it was passed, and the beginning of this whole process in 2006, as much as my memory serves, aimed to drive out incompetent administrations from our companies in such a way and what happened was that small shareholders in Serbia were completely destroyed. Since I do not have a lot of time, I will say that such a case with the company "Autosports" in Kragujevac, because it was targeted that because of the inability that the state, which took over some of the capital by the conversion and the city and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this company with a decades-old tradition of saving from destruction is now in bankruptcy, without the possibility that more than 1,000 workers, or several thousand people of my fellow citizens and members of their families, will be charged with damages due to lost actions and due to such indifference from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the whole law is a simple farce, because many lawyers in this country and the professors of Law School have given a very critical reference to both this member and the entire text of this existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13614	The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and together DS. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13615	Article 9 amends the deadline laid down in Article 12 of the basic text of the law and will no longer be one day, but two working days. There, that's the whole change. Then the question arises – how did you finally find out that it takes two working days? It took you so many years to realize that for one day it couldn't, but that it took two days, and the whole process that lasted two months before that was absolutely transparent. People know everything. It's a very good opportunity, just to draw your attention, this member starts like this, he says - the bidder is obliged to do it in time. And what if she's an offerer, why didn't you include the offerer? In every law, I propose to you what I have learned from Minister Zorana Mihajlović, and that is all the terms used in this law in the male grammar family include the male and female gender of the person to whom they apply. And you didn't want to adopt it, and seven days ago Zorana Mihajlovic fainted, she said -- it has to be in every law, and if it's not in every law, there's nothing from the EU. Now I see here that you have a hard fight in the government and you've split into bidders and bidders.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13616	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13617	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13618	Thank you. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, together by MPs of Dveri and DS. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13619	Article 10 you are changing refers to Article 13 which speaks of the submission of applications for the authorisation of the publication of bids for takeover and its amendments. Now the question is, you're here changing 15 days in 15 working days, seven days in 10 days, one working day in two working days, and you're really asking what these changes mean to you? What happened when you noticed that a 15-day deadline was to be turned into 15-day workdays? What was so important for so many years as there is a law, that now you've just come up with such cruel changes in the law to introduce, to add a working day, instead of just a working day, or 15 days? Indeed, and if we hadn't been to erase all these members, this article 10 would have been, at the very least, a ridiculous, completely unnecessary change. So, if we just wanted to sort of sort of sort of edit this proposal of yours, we would have intervened here in the same way. I just started, and now I'm done. How is it possible for you to answer each amendment with the same explanation that you do not accept it for reasons why the amendment of Zoran Zivkovic was not accepted? They are all the same amendments, but at least you had to send out our amendments, the Zivkovic amendments, and I don't know which amendments he's been putting up with, so that you can see that it's not the same intention or the same goal or the same reason. You can't judge and identify us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13620	Time, thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13621	I think we have dynamics, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13622	The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, it's not the state's secret information about how much time we have left in this united debate? You're the government, we ask you, if it's not a problem, if we don't ask too much, to give us that information, to adjust our exposure, that's just the reason. With the amendment submitted, we propose to delete Article 12, because there is no legitimate market reason for any amendment to this law. If we bear in mind that the law was passed in 2006, that the amendments to this law were in 2009 and 2011 and that the amendments to this law always made to new affairs, the position of the SRS is that the National Assembly as a legislative body should first deal with the regulation of social life, from which the wider layers of citizenship will have direct and rapid benefits, not to re-enact the harmonisation of our legislation with EU laws, which will not do citizens any good. The regulation of this matter on action societies should certainly come into order, but legal consistent institutions and people with integrity are needed, which will respect legal provisions, where there will be no takeover by tycoon companies, because then everything loses its meaning. It is interesting that the Government, in its reasons for not accepting this amendment, calls for no reasons to be stated in our explanation of the amendment, which points to the fundamentality and justification of the solution set out in the amendment, which is clearly not true, because it is precisely in the explanation of the proposed amendment that we call for legal and technical harmonisation of the norm, the lack of the need to change the applicable Act on the takeover of stock companies, because whenever it has been changed, it has been changed for the need for a tycoon, called an economic operator, to come into possession of a company. We cite further fear, in the text of the amendment's clarification, that no new affairs may come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13624	Thank you, MP. Your task force has wasted both the time and the rest. When we're in crisis with the time of the amendment, I'll draw attention. We've got time, don't worry about anything. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and together DS. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vesna Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and together DS. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13625	Thank you. I'll wait for these athletes of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13626	Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13628	Thank you. I think the government is right. Member of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović and jointly Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and the DS parliamentary group. Member of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and Saša Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and together by Parliament group Dveri and DS. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and together a parliamentary group of Dveri and DS. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13630	Thank you. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović and the Dveri and DS Parliamentary Group together submitted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13631	Thank you. And here I think the government is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13632	The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Belačić and together by Parliament group Dveri and together DS. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13633	I might be leading the controversy, but he's my professor. Pavlovic left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13634	The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and a joint parliamentary group of DS. The 23rd amendment, with correction, was filed by Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13635	I'd say something, but the professor went to a concert, as far as I can tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13636	On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and the DS parliamentary group. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Delic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and the DS parliamentary group. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri and the DS parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13637	This law, as I said in my previous report, has many shortcomings and it has been made in line with EU directives, which is not good because your trip to the EU is a Sunflower for Serbia, because our businesses and capital markets, and above all our economy, cannot meet such strict requirements that come from EU member states. This commission, which we asked in Article 26 to delete, is a commission that can determine the way in which a stockholder's society, or part of capital, was taken over, however, will remain unresolved issues of many difficult, systemic unresolved issues. Now that we look at it from this perspective, and there are MPs who have since passed the first laws on companies and company law, recalls counterpart Krasic, from 1996, this law has better regulated this area than when you set out to comply with EU rules. After all, we also remember that famous moment, so who wants to remind themselves, let them see when the finance minister at that time, Dossier Minister Bozidar Djelic, jumped ahead of Oliver Kovacevic, with those three kisses, that you were granted candidate status, and in fact, the Serbian economy and the state of Serbia began in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13638	You didn't talk about the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13639	It's a business thing. I wanted to advertise Article 283. Rules of Procedure. The MP is required to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Why is that? Because some MPs from the DS and Enough MPs are always laughing at Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, who often declares that he is working 12 hours and more. We've only been working for nine hours, they've already left the Assembly. If they can't last eight hours and more to work as MPs, I wonder how they'd just run the country. I'm not asking the Assembly to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13640	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. We've been working 13 hours. We started voting this morning. Yeah, yeah. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic and together by MPs of the Dveri group and together by the DS parliamentary group. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Public Property. You've received reports from the competent committees, the government's opinion of the amendments. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the bill in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, together MPs of the Dveri Group, together MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic and together MPs of the DS group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13641	We have the same situation again. You're looking again for an extension of the deadline. We still think that this law should not have been passed, that this is unserious, that even after the adoption of this proposal you will also put this as one of the adopted laws, as you did when you brought what you are now changing. You say you do not accept our amendment for the reason that the bill extends the deadline for applying for the registration of public property of the Autonomous province, the units of local self-government and the property of public enterprises and companies, capital and their subsidiaries. You have not convinced us that this deadline will not be extended again because we have no reason why this deadline from the existing law is not respected. Also a question for the government, why, since you already know, if you know, you're going to have to amend some law, why don't you follow it, why don't you order the services, because you're changing all the laws, you're extending the deadlines everywhere, why don't you order the services to follow it properly so you don't come into the vacuum like we are now with this law, where the deadlines expired on October 6, 2016, today is December 26th, December 27th. At least keep an eye on, as soon as you bring it in, as soon as the Assembly adopts the law on your proposal, give it to the services immediately and tell us, because we know this is a law of order, because we know this is not going to apply, take care of it, alarm us in time so that those MPs don't call us there not to take care of it, and we don't do our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13642	Time. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13643	Of course, this is another one in a series of same laws, an extension of deadlines that have expired or should expire, without any explanation of why it happened and who is responsible. In particular, in this law of three members, there is a discussion of the extension of the time limit within which the Autonomous Province, units of local self-government, i.e. public undertakings and capital companies, have the right to submit a new deadline by the end of next year in which they apply for registration of public property rights. We repeat the question we don't have an answer to -- how many units of local self-government have done this job? What number of units that didn't do it? In the light of the law, there is no single analysis of how many cases this is going to take place, how many municipalities, or the local self-government unit, this is doing this, how many public enterprises haven't completely or at all done this, and how much work the AP Vojvodina has done. Without that, of course, you can't get our support to extend this deadline. Because what is the guarantee that in a year's time, God forbid this same government is ruling Serbia, come and seek a new extension? What's the guarantee that in the next year this job will end? Nothing in this law talks about urgency. The sentence you're looking for - the adoption of this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of organs and organizations. What's that? What harmful consequences? The property of the Republic of Serbia, will local self-government sign on and exercise its right? At the end of the line, it does no harm but to these units of local self-government, or public enterprises. That's why I think it was better that this law never came to the Assembly's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13644	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13645	I wanted to discuss this with Mr. Radulovic, but he's a hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13646	On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenković, joint MPs of the Dveri Group, together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stankovic and Nenad Konstantinović, together with the Parliamentary Group Democratic Party, Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we propose, by amendment, to delete Article 2, because the position of the SRS is that there is no reasonable reason for any amendment to this law. If you have in mind that the law was passed in 2011, that the amendments were made in 2013, then in 2014, to propose its amendments now, don't you think that there was too much time to comply with the law of the prescribed provision? Now you will probably refer to the reasons for the law being passed, which is that many of those entities did not apply for the registration of property rights in the public record of immovableities and rights on them and thus did not exercise the right to enter the property, and you need to extend the deadlines because they expired on 6 October 2016. Now I'm asking you, if these entities are AP and local self-government units, which are mostly under your jurisdiction, why didn't you force them to apply for property registration so far? Who's responsible? Probably no one. If the pensioner doesn't pay the bill for a profession that crosses 200 dinars, an amount of 10,000 dinars, you will go to cut off his electricity, and here because of the obvious failures of municipal officials, no one is guilty by the system, you will release the guilty. It is interesting that the Government, in an explanation for not accepting this amendment, is invited to ensure that local self-governments are able to apply for enrolment within a later period. You might understand that you're proposing an extension in two, three months and that this job you were obliged to do is done. Like this, you're further inciting their irresponsibility, reluctant. It seems that those who run the province and local self-government in Serbia have all kinds of rights, while Serbian citizens pay both on the bridge and on the chalice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13648	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13649	We believe that a five-year period for the admission of public property rights by the AP, i.e. local self-government, is quite sufficient and quite appropriate, and that there is no need to extend that deadline further. That is why we believe that this article should be deleted, that this law was not even necessary. We ask one question – is it possible to, for example, One unit of local self-government with all the resources it has, means both the budget and everything at its disposal, is unable to enter property rights for five years? It's a very interesting question, especially what in most local self-government is identical power by verticals. As in the Republic, both now and in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and also for the vast majority of local self-government of the SNS exercise power. I ask the question, how long will citizens be victims of incompetent personnel who manage local self-government, who manage the province administration? Even so, you've been managing the circuit administration for only a few months, so I can understand that you're not carrying that responsibility, because some of the previous ones that were there, but for local self-government units, you're absolutely responsible. How is it possible for five years that public property rights cannot be entered? Why do you keep extending your deadlines? What do these people do then in local self-government units? I'm glad some government ministers agree with me and nod their heads, but we simply have to point out who doesn't do his job responsibly. Let's replace, it's not a dispute, here, extend that deadline to them, but everyone who hasn't made a commitment within the scheduled time limit let's replace, let's make someone fit. Let's say -- well, they've been replaced and they've been cleared, you, you, and you, because they've done their job badly, and because of them, we've had to pass one of these laws. We had to bring it, because someone in the state system, or local self-government and the circuit administration, wasn't doing a job, and he's going to answer, and we had to pass the law because of his unhappiness. When you call these people because of their unhappiness, you absolutely deserve a round of applause and then I understand a law like this. Like this, absolutely as long as this agony of incompetent faces lasts? Of course, you can't answer for everything, but we have to admit that you now have all the responsibility for power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13650	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13651	Of course, the government didn't accept the amendment we asked for to delete Article 2 of this law, but it's an interesting explanation. It says – the entities did not carry out the process of recording the assets they use due to a large number of immovableities, as well as the outstanding property-legal issues on those issues, and it is celery to allow these entities to submit applications for enrolment in the subsequent period until 31 December 2017. Does this mean that it will speed up solving property-legal issues? In what way and in what particular measures will this acceleration happen, except for the good wishes and nods of ministers who are now noding their heads how is that going to happen? We don't have a law here that follows, which should guarantee that solving property-legal problems, which exists and has slowed down and made it impossible to meet this five-year deadline, will now speed it up. What are these measures of the government? We didn't hear it here in principle debate, and we didn't hear it now in the debate on amendments, because the government's representatives decided to defend themselves with silence. You're silent about all those remarks we're making and we've been saying as little time as we've had in the principle debate, and so on, according to the amendments. So, five years of something hasn't been done, and it's due October 6th this year, I think. Why is a new deadline of one year now, in a minute to 12? What are the guarantees that this deadline will be respected? What conditions have changed to honor that deadline? We don't have any of that, but we just have maybe a good desire for the government to finish this job, but as it goes, it's certainly not going to be done in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13652	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13653	I'd like to say that those questions you've mentioned here have been answered three times, but it doesn't matter, maybe all three times you haven't been to the O.R., so here's the fourth. In 2016, therefore, the Republic Property Directorate established an automatic data processing programme for the keeping of a single immobility record in public property as a web application under the Information System of this Directorate and since then has accelerated the registration of property registrations. Besides, I've said it several times, which I think is particularly important, that we've had an even worse situation with parent books, seven years of deadline. The good news that I can now share with the Assembly is that we will end this by 1 January 2017 in all, except for about ten units of local self-government, where we will finally end up after seven years of parenting. So it's a parallel between the laws that couldn't be done for seven years, and it was constantly extending. We said, "Here, that no longer will extend the deadline and we're done." So this will happen with this Law, and we will certainly have full support and permanent conferences of cities and municipalities within the framework of the EU Five Projects. So it should be over, but it's been a lot of work in 2016, and they've finally finished something that's been waiting a lot longer, so we're going to end this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13654	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can see that many colleagues are surprised, as if this is yesterday's problem. Someone says five years, and they can't add up, or take away 16 less 12 is four. But it doesn't matter. In the end, I'm surprised that even a colleague who's a lawyer says we should violate the independence and independence of the local self-government guaranteed by the Constitution. What are these problems regarding enrolment of immovableity, meaning enrolment in public property? As we've heard from the minister, the first thing is that this job hasn't been done in decades, and someone expects one unwork that's been going on for decades to solve in a few months. If at least one object, someone who criticises this, took it to work, to examine, here it cannot work, has no capacity, could learn about all the problems that have arisen since 1944 or 1945, when the first was the takeover of property, and then the sharing of local self-government, and later social enterprises, so social enterprises gave it to their unions, so unions to workers, and workers sold to municipalities, etc. What's the weirdest thing about this whole story is that no one was registered, there was no landowner, and he had neat contracts and decisions that he owned. Now it takes all one local self-government to reset 40 years back, so she can finish this job. So critics, I take those seriously, of course, but inconclusive criticisms, as one colleague now said, which, otherwise, I cannot accept, are probably the product of his ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13656	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13657	I'm glad the minister got involved, but you repeated the story that you did, did say when it was a principle debate, you were talking about parent books, which are not a topic at all. I don't know why you're making that parallel. Because I guess you'd like to brag that this job is over after seven years. Here, I'll commend you for being finished after seven years. Of those seven, four and a half years you are in power, your political options, not you personally, but your political option. Well, now if we want to share responsibility, let's see whose responsibility it is, why this job isn't finished before and how many times the deadline has been extended. So I repeat here you're saying that due to unresolved property-law issues, this job has not been done. How are you gonna speed that up? I completely agree with what counterpart Arsic said was one of the galamatics, that it was very complicated to solve. I'm not sure if even within a year these things can be solved. I think this amendment of the law should have come more seriously, seen what else should be done, through some other laws, to speed up this process. You're saying, now there's a web app, then you could tell us how much property is in that web app that the municipalities now need, to say, to apply to exercise their right to enter property. But you're not telling us any of that. It's just that you go to your home books, and I can best see, you know, the situation in Triestenik municipality. I don't know how you of all the municipalities found that very community and why you love so much to deal with it, but good. I repeat, you cannot expect support like this without concrete data, what is expected, why this period of one year, what will be done to honor this. This way, only with your goodwill, it's not enough and it won't be accomplished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13658	The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13659	Thank you, just once again, since I certainly assume that you have seen it already in earlier appearances, that I certainly like to be in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and before you, honourable Members of Parliament, whenever I can commend the excellent local self-government. The Trieste is one of those examples that has personally shown me in my vault what responsible local self-government can do. In early November, they had 1.5% of their parent books transferred into electronic form. The president of the municipality has advocated that this will be over and today they have 70%. So, that's how responsible local self-government is run. We also have the local government of Srlig, which I was talking about which job ended in 2012. The reason I'm talking about books of origin when we're talking about public property is precisely to show that the government of the Republic of Serbia is finishing jobs that haven't been completed in years. That's one argument that's going to say that we're going to do this logic and we're going to do other jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13660	Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13661	Thank you. I can't sit on an empty chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13662	Thank you. Gordana Komic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The 3rd Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, a joint parliamentary group of Dveri, together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic and together a parliamentary group of DS. The word is Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13663	I am taking the opportunity to welcome all representatives of local self-government, autonomous provinces, public enterprises that did not finish this job and if God did not finish in 2017. Why? We have submitted three amendments to bring this law down for the sixth time. This is bad law. I just remind you, we're leaving in 2017, there are stories that Serbia could sell some of its dear assets to some of us haters who bombed us. Thank you to these local authorities for not registering anything, and as long as they're not registered, it can't be available. The law is bad. Now, let me remind you, that an EU exception called Mladjan Dinkic has appeared, and he has one year registered the immovableities and raised allegedly the property of the Republic of Serbia to show off the surplus and to be the most successful finance minister in Europe that year. The next year, a great deficit hit us and yesterday he was released from responsibility and now he's as clean as a baby, no one can say anything to him. So, once again, I welcome the representatives of the autonomous province, the local self-government, the public enterprises that did not sign up for anything, because if they had written it down, that some of them are insolent, they would have long broken down what our chucoon, the chucounds have done in various ways and come into state property. We need a list of all state property. Now, that's when you say you'll do it, you'll have my support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13664	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13665	Of course, we have proposed eradicating and the last member in this law that provides for the entry into force of this law because we consider this to be a bad law that will not bring about those planned effects. It extends the deadline completely arbitrary in a year, without any serious analysis guaranteeing that this process will be possible within a year. I repeat, all of those reasons that are mentioned in the rejection of previous amendments, which talk about how many local self-governments have been inactive in this matter, and that we still don't know what the number is, and that there are a number of unresolved property-legal issues that prevent the transfer of property from being carried out, only by extending this deadline, which has otherwise expired, to repeat if someone has not paid attention to it, in October of this year, and here, the government has come here at the very end of the year to discuss, together with more than 20 other points of the agenda, there are no mechanisms in this law, nor are there any changes, additions or some new laws that will allow this process to end in the next year. I'm afraid, no matter what the results are in the next year, what part of the work is going to end, we can only guess now because we don't even know what number of jobs we're dealing with, what part of the job is ahead of us, if there are problems of property-law issues or similar things, that we're either going to extend this deadline again, or we're definitely going to give up the transfer of property to local self-government, public enterprises and AP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13666	Bosko Obradovic has a word, so minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13667	Indeed, there is only one thing that has been bothering me for a long time on this law, which is why elections are being debated every year, why every year we have a new government and ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13668	MP, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13669	Just about the amendment, why we're against the entry into force of this law, I'm trying to explain it in a picturesque way. So why does the Serbian Progressive Party run away from responsibility that something she has promised has not done in five years of her authority, as is the case with the list of assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13670	MP, why should the law not take effect on the eighth day of the day of publication, that member shall be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13671	Here's why. Let me explain. You can't know what I'm saying. Because every minister, like in this case Ana Brnabic, can say that this government is moving from it and she has no idea why that minister was responsible before he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13672	We need to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13673	So you had a very simple opportunity - to do something in five years. You didn't do it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13674	Ambassador, just about the amendment, please. We've been practicing since 10 in the morning until now. In this rest of the session, only the amendments. No, no problem, we'll make a cut around 5:00 in the morning. By the way, MP, about the amendment. We don't sum anything up. We've got until the end. All right, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13675	So, if we are erasing the entry into force of this law, am I talking about the amendment if I say that the reason for eradicating the entry into force of this law is because this is a bad law? Why is this bad law? Because it escapes responsibility for those who have been in power for five years. Why haven't you been writing down property for five years? Because unwritten property is the best space for corruption on a level and autonomous province and units of local self-government. Each unwritten property is a corruption space – apartments, different business premises owned by units of local self-government and everything else that is public property and you did not list, of course, is automatically available for various corrupt actions by local owners. So, is your protection of corruption at the local level hiding in the delaying of the inventory of assets? That's the question. Since we suspect that this is the case, we believe that we should not go to an extension of this deadline and give you a chance to actually delay the list of assets and allow it to continue the corrupt activities. I don't know what's not clear about that. Because if you wanted to prevent corrupt acts, you would have listed that property. You haven't listed that property in five years, which I can only conclude is how you protect corruption. The Serbian Progressive Party organises new elections every year, chooses a new government and new... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13676	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13677	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, on this amendment, which tries not to put such an act into effect in the legal system, I think there are a few things to be said. It is very important that all forms given the right under the Public Property Act should be clearly entered in the public property system to have, above all, the state, the autonomous province and local self-government. But what's this really about? Much has been pushed through the debate in principle and according to the amendments which are the reasons why this deadline is extended. I think a deeper analysis deserves this law at all, and I think it's very important to talk about this, for a simple reason, question whether local self-government has full capacity to write down all the property. I'll remind you that there were a few words about what kind of property there are, so you have a whole, not to mention -- a rasomoniadu legal, not to say -- a cabbage, a galimatias, or whatever you want to say, where everything and everything is recorded in different forms of co-optimation, building on land in public property of objects that are not in public property and vice versa, building objects that are in public property on land that is of some other origin. I think we're actually going to need a new law on public property in the future, and by then we have to let this solution go, so that local self-governments that haven't been able to do it can handle this job. And not only local self-government, much bigger business is waiting for us about public enterprises. It's a serious job, but we're going to need a lot more regulations to change this system at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13678	Thank you. Ambassador Zvonimir Djokic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13679	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, here, you see, in this case, when a typical representative of the new wave of political charlatanism wants to talk about everything and everything, he just gets up, picks up and starts defending such an amendment, which he says - is deleted. So, no arguments, no facts, etc. Why? Because the policy it represents is just based on demagogy and phraseology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13680	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13681	That's why I just called, and otherwise I'm not answering. I like to hear your opinions, too, but when you go over every step of the way and you change the guy -- you get wiped out, and then we really need to sit here all night and listen to things like this, then somebody really gets sick of hearing it. It is normal that I am against the adoption of this amendment and I fully support what the minister has just said. There's nothing further to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13682	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13683	The National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostić, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović, joint MPs Marko Djurić, Miroslav Čomić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stanković and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozinović, Maja Videnović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13684	Yeah. We have suggested that Article 1 of this law be deleted. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. This law was passed in 2001, and it should not be any significant information, but it is a significant fact that from then on, this is 20 amendments to this law. This again speaks of how all these authorities have had their relationship with this law since 2000. Of course, everyone’s goal was to fill the excise budget, and they just watched how and how through this law they came up with some means to praise themselves with a smaller deficit, a possible surplus, etc. It's interesting, and we wrote it in an explanation. Every time the Law on Excises was discussed, and amendments and additions to the law, every time the resolution ministers boasted that the law was made to the National Assembly, or the proposal they proposed to the National Assembly by the highest European standards, so it is not clear to us now - that again you have been set up by European standards, whether the problem is in European standards or on your way to Europe. It seems to us both. So we think this is a bad law, we think that this is the law that you're bringing to order again, and in a few months, we're going to have amendments and additions to this law because you're working unseriously, because you're irresponsible to the government and because you're wasting time on MPs and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13685	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13686	There are several reasons why this Article 1 should not be changed. The first reason is that the government seems to have used that time machine used by the assembly board here, so it put the title of this law somewhere that it was changed in 2055. So this is where it all changes this law, so it says 2014, 2015, and it says, "Official Messenger" No. 103/55. It means it's been changed for 55 years, so I'd like to know what kind of changes are made in the future. This says that this law is bad, and now Article 1 and this change is completely illogical, because it changes Article 1a which has a title that says – the meaning of individual terms. Now this Article 1 defines certain terms, but does not speak anywhere about a particular type of action product. Only this change introduces that the manufacturer of excise products and the person performing the processing, frying, packaging, as well as the other related activities being carried out for the purpose of the production of coffee. So, nowhere is there, in other respects of this member, there are no other excise products, no tobacco, no alcohol, no electricity. That's all general terms. This change, as the government has suggested, is not a place in this member and I don't know what the result is. This law could have passed without Article 1. So here you have one fundamental, incorrect fact. It says that the law has been amended for 55 years, some 39 years in the future, and the second one is a concrete indication of the production of coffee. It's not a place to cite general terms. Look what Article 1a looks like. These are all general terms and there is no mention of any excise product.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13687	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13688	Thank you, Chairman. In order to be absolutely accurate, I will read you an explanation that actually erases Article 1 of the Amendment and supplement of the Excise Act. Amendment holder i.e. Dveri's parliamentary group considers that persons who perform processing, frying, packaging, as well as others related to them, operations carried out for the purpose of the production of coffee should not be treated as excise products producers. The bill promoter wants to equalise, the government wants to equalise the situation of coffee importers with domestic producers and thus create equal conditions for market participants. We're against it. We believe that they should not have the same conditions on the market as the coffee importer and domestic coffee maker. Why? Since 5 October 2000, according to the amendments, we have very negative experience with equating conditions between domestic producers and importers, which in most cases resulted in market acquisitions by importers. In the above-mentioned actions, the domestic labour force of domestic producers and their subcontractors and suppliers, on the basis of which there is a major inflow into the budget on the basis of the profit tax, is engaged, as is the case with the importer of finished coffee products. By equating the situation of the importer, by introducing excise duties to the domestic coffee processor, part of the mentioned inflow into the profit tax-based budget is poured out to the budgets of the countries from which imports of finished coffee products are imported. So, what's the government doing here? Who knows which time since 5 October 2000, the Government has been standing in the protection of a foreign importer, i.e. an importer, i.e. a foreign company, or a foreign producer, and at the expense of the domestic producer and processor. It's just amazing that whenever you can and in any case, the government will rather stand behind a stranger than any domestic businessman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13689	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's short again, and there's still no need for it to be different. I call for not to be adopted, among other things, because this excise matter has to do with both the market situation and the consequence should be to reduce the illegal market in this area. It's not hard to conclude. In addition, it certainly is about those excise revenues, but you know what, it's not hard to conclude, but it does involve a certain bonding of matter, and I really don't expect it from the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13691	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13692	Dear President, honourable MPs, I think it is very important to say on this subject a few words, first of all, because the goal is that, although there are some parts of the coffee that are located in the gray zone, they can be established through the excise system. The second thing, I think it's quite a place here in this part of the law to talk about the excise duties on coffee traffic, first of all, because this is about the introductory provisions where the subject of excise duty is determined. It is also very important to say that all those involved in the traffic, not only in the import of coffee, are placed here under the influence of excise duties. This substance will be applied from 1 January 2018. We have some international obligations that we need to determine, but that's not it. I know what you're going to get caught for, but it's very important for us to have a complete coffee-exist system as a product covered and that all market participants have a completely equal status.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13693	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13694	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm prepared for a sharp controversy, but my professor got tired of something very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13695	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13696	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. As MP of the opposition, I must say that I felt that my dignity was injured, because my colleague Risticevic disqualified opposition MPs. We're in the O.R. Does that mean we're not inspiring enough for him to engage in dialogue and discussion with us? Freely, colleague Risticevic, we are in opposition, do not, that some do not have, that it prevents you from participating in the dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13697	My colleague Nogo, I can do a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't see what I've done to hurt the Rules of Procedure. counterpart Marijan Risticevic has the legitimate right to submit an amendment and a legitimate right to defend the amendment he has submitted in his own way. It's his legitimate right. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: We hold you to your word. This went into the stenogram. He was talking about the amendment he submitted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13698	We have proposed erasing and Article 2 because we know that, or we don't think this law should change, especially not in this way, and we know that what you're saying will be the consequence of the adoption of this law under this proposal will not actually happen when it comes to the traffic of coffee, not even when it comes to the traffic of other excise goods. You have provided for a change in Article 6 in this Article 2 and where you have written – the excise duty is the producer, i.e. the importer of action products, and among other things any person who puts into circulation the Republic of Serbia excise products contrary to the provisions of this law. Now let me tell you something that I think you know and what the authorities know. The most recent sale on the street of currently excise products is the sale of tobacco. And of course we never, we Serbian radicals, ever thought that the source of the gray economy and the black market were those people who sell on the street. That's what people sell to survive, and we've always had an understanding for them. But there's always a question -- how does that tobacco get to those people, and instead of having municipal inspectors walk down the street and take that tobacco away, then give it there to that guy around the other corner, to sell it to him, I don't know if you know it's done, and believe me, when are you going to find the real smugglers and when are you really going to take this job seriously? I noticed something interesting about a tobacco smuggler. The only ones who don't touch the municipal inspectors are I personally recognized the three who knocked on my door, please, at the time of the election campaign and asked for a safe voice, free sale.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13699	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13700	Dear President, honourable Members, I think it is very important here to point out to the public what is specifically involved in the proposal for amending the law, above all regarding the debtor who is obliged to pay the excise. We've introduced a new category. It is a category of persons who are trafficked by any product that is subject to excise payments most often doing so in an illegal manner and not only will it be sanctioned through criminal or criminal sanctions, but another thing, will be charged to him and the excise duty on that goods he tried to put on the market. In this way we correct one flaw that existed in previous provisions and plus all these sanctions that go on, he will be charged with excise duties. I think it is also very good for sanctions, and on the other hand it is good for the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13701	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 2. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, an amendment was adopted, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the applicant for the amendment, i.e. the representative of Proposer Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13702	I thank the chairman. In accordance with the statement of the Minister following the previous amendment and in accordance with Article 2. The Committee wanted to make a full contribution to the development of all the options of practically confiscation of goods in cases where certain persons possess goods without adequate documentation, or so on. Excise goods. On the Committee too, Mrs Ana Brnabic accepted this proposal, so we think that this is essentially a very good solution to cover and legal obligations under the Law on Administration and, in general, to the state bodies that need to implement this kind of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13703	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13704	Thank you. So there's no confusion, to be exact, it's a controversy that I wanted to have with a group that once cursed me, spit, turned her back, and now she ran away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13705	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13706	Exceptionally, if it is products which are in whole or in part made up of substances other than tobacco, Gjorge, but which, with regard to other criteria, correspond to these products, it is not tobacco, and it corresponds to tobacco, smoke. It's so specific what tobacco processing is, but it's just amazing to me. Is it possible that in 2016 and before the end we find out about the fried coffee, we learn that the excise duty can also be not only the manufacturer and the one who puts it on the market, but also the one who illegally traffics on the third criteria and we find out, remember, in 2001, twice the law was changed twice, in 2002 twice, in 2003 twice, twice, in 2004 three times, in 2005, only twice, in 2007, twice, in 2009, twice, in 2010, twice, in 2011, twice, in 2012, twice, in 2013, once, in 2014, twice, in 2015, sorry Marko – this 55 is 2015, we are not yet in 2055 and at the end of 2016, we are now concluding and making some changes. Is that possible? What happened? There's a substance and a smoke that's not a cigarette, and it's supposed to be excisely taxed. That would have to be explained by someone, as Mr. Nedimovic could explain where these local coffee plantations are made by us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13707	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13708	Thank you. I wanted to discuss this with the largest economic gromad, Mr. Radulovic, the biggest after my fellow farmer Zivkovic, but as you can see, he escaped.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13709	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13710	Article 4 refers to Article 14 of the basic law which otherwise explains what coffee is considered to be within the meaning of this law, very interesting and you add the view that under the production of coffee within the meaning of this law, it is considered as processing, frying, packaging and other related activities to be carried out for the purpose of the production of coffee. So nothing spectacular, nothing new, but we still don't have what's really interesting about coffee and we're talking about smuggling again, of course. Since this law came into force, that is, when it was first brought in, as some have just started yelling, uh, who without any problems selling smuggled tobacco on the street, so I also have to remind myself of coffee smuggling, some who are still known in their area today under the name Santos, Bata Santos, you know who it is, who bought and TV from Santos Coffee. Who doesn't know it's about former Minister Gasic? Yeah, I'm talking about him, of course. So, you're saying that you won't accept the amendment for the reason that the proposed amendments are arranged to regulate the taxation of coffee excise duty in terms of this law from 1 January 2018. Where in article 4, do you see this basis that, Mr. Nedimovic, did you ask Vujovic when you came here, where is the basis for your article 4 of what you wrote in the explanation? It's not there. So you've written a reply to the MPs, as is the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13711	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojićic and Mr. Ivan Kostic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13712	Thank you, Chairman. Most of all, I have to admit, I love the arguments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why the amendment of the opposition is being rejected, because it is very nice to read under whose orders and directives you are doing and why laws like this are being passed, which are against the interests of domestic producers, and, of course, in the interests of foreign companies and the import lobby. Of course, the basic nonsense of this law is to be passed by emergency procedure, and it starts to apply only in a year, from 1 January 2018, but it is already something that is common when it comes to you. You, by the way, are passing laws that never apply and whose application is constantly delayed. But it's interesting what you're saying here why you're doing all this. You say that you are extending the scope of the excise duty on coffee in a way that taxation of coffee excise duty is carried out, except for imports, and when processing, frying, packing, as well as other related activities are carried out in the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of making coffee. The current way of taxing, e, this is that hit, coffee excise duty only on imports was placed as an observation by the European Commission as part of a bilateral screening for PG-16 taxation. The proposed legal solution will equate the situation of the coffee importer with the domestic coffee producer and create the same conditions on the market. Why don't you say so now, Mr. Nedimovic, right away? So, the EU directive must be protected by its import lobby, which is their foreign company, cannot be protected by our domestic processor and coffee maker to have any advantage on the market. So, let's destroy everything that's domestic, let's bloom everything that's foreign economic interest. Anything that's of domestic economic interest to be simply crushed. In order for your EU mentors to be satisfied with your work, you must work for their companies. That's the point of the whole economy. Foreign economic interest forward, domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13713	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13714	Thank you very much. And, again briefly, because there's still no reason to be different. I call on him not to adopt. As for the observation that something contained in the reasoning that we received from the government does not match the content of the legal proposal, in fact, yes, what is said to be done in a different way by taxation by excise. It's in this particular term here, because what's proposed as a definition just means everything that didn't mean so far, and it's nice to see when you look at it in big letters, that it can't be missed, what's new about the original solution. That's one thing. Another thing, any major topic, such as the EU story, I suggest that we leave for another time when the amendment's proposing is more relaxed. He's not doing it anyway, you can imagine how that just sounds tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13715	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13716	The Honorable chairman, honourable MPs, has just heard some claims that this is being done on someone's orders, that someone is asking for it. One is the basic reason why we're changing the law on coffee excise. This is primarily the fight against the gray economy, it is the basic and first reason, we are doing it for the Serbian state, we are doing it for the citizens of Serbia, we are doing it for the sake of the quality of the Serbian budget. The fact is also that we have our legal obligations and that the SAA was signed in 2008 and that Serbia started through European integration, and should not run away from it. We are also interested in harmonising our behaviours in line with what exists in Europe as normal behaviour in this area. But I repeat, the first and primary reason is to fight the gray economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13717	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll handle it with Mr. Radulovic at the TV duel, of course, if he's allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13719	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13720	When the budget of the Republic of Serbia was passed, we had one intervention that envisioned the budget to find revenue from excise duties for sweetened drinks, i.e. drinks and fruit juices that were sweetened. At that time, we were pleased with the statement by the minister that he personally agrees with the idea that sweetened drinks are being further taxed, i.e. to introduce excise duties, since the World Health Organization has declared the world’s epidemic of obesity and has proposed to governments to tax sweetened drinks as one of the ways to stand in the way of this epidemic. When we received this bill, we were disappointed that there were no new excises and we tried, as far as the Rules of Procedure allows, through the amendment to this Article 4. That, let me say, I can even agree that it was not legally possible, since this Article 14, which is amended by Article 4 of this Act, speaks of coffee and coffee-containing products. I think it's a missed opportunity to introduce that kind of taxation of sweetened drinks right now and try to do something to help reduce obesity in Serbia. The obesity data in Serbia are dramatic, 21% of Serbian citizens suffer from obesity, and 31% are in pre-eat condition. We know that in a number of cases obesity leads to the occurrence of diabetes and various other diseases and their treatment, if we start to look at everything through the money, then also the treatment of Serbian citizens who are suffering from diabetes and other diseases caused by obesity costs much more than we could reduce by investing in prevention. Sixteen countries have introduced this excise duty so far. Our closest neighbour, Hungary has introduced this excise duty since 2013 and their results are encouraging. By 20%, the use was reduced, because it was run not only because of this excise, but rather because of one campaign of steam that was poured into the budget by introducing this excise, promoting the use of healthy natural fruit juices instead of these sweetened and having a 20% reduction in the use of these sweetened juices and sodas, and 20% increase in natural fruit juices. Also, good results and positive trends also appear in the fight against obesity. Of course, none of this is important for the Serbian government, and unfortunately, the Serbian government has no intention of leading any policy other than budget care policy. What we're hearing from the minister who's here with us tonight, to defend this law, or debate in particular, he's saying that it's important for us to have a stable budget, that it fills up, that I don't know what. But unfortunately, it's not politics, and it can't be a policy to keep the budget in check, but to implement through the budget the policies that the government draws and implements through the programmes that are in the budget and which are then allocated to certain funding for these programmes. There is no programme to fight obesity in Serbia. And he's necessary. And I spend this all the time at this point knowing that a small number of citizens are watching, but this is the last chance probably in this session, quite certainly by the end of the year when we're going to have a chance to say something on this subject. We think that this topic is important and that the only reason why the government has now avoided going with this excise is the obvious reason why it convinced the government not to do so just over a year ago, when it was announced, and that's the addition to large capital. It is an advocacy to companies that have the production of these drinks in Serbia and have a certain profit and, of course, it is their interest not to introduce this excise. But I think it's the interest of Serbian citizens to have healthier citizens, to spend less money on the treatment of those sick and I think that a much greater benefit would be to accept this amendment, and to find a solution by the government that could intervene. We have our bill, if she did not know how the bill could have been included in this proposal, to change, to introduce a fight against obesity, and to take one concrete step towards solving the problem that is plagued by everything, potentially 700,000 citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13721	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13722	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, I have no doubt there was a good intention here, but that you want to impose an excise on sweetened drinks is not precisely defined. Sweet drinks can also be sweetened by artificial sweeteners. I agree with you that liquid calories are very important when it comes to obesity, but I'm worried about something else. I'm worried that you've impoverished the citizens of Serbia, so they've got to bring in calorie-rich intentions, and they're internally empty. A very large intake of white flour and oil, it's a problem, not liquid calories. On the other hand, fruit juices also have sugar in them that affects obesity, and children should be recommended not juices but fruit. Therefore, make yourself clear and define clearly what you want. So when you say, if you're precise, then you'll come across a good government response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13723	MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13724	I said in the beginning that it was clear that this amendment was difficult to be accepted, because the simple procedure of the MP did not give us the opportunity to intervene in other members, where it is the place of proper intervention to introduce this excise. And, of course, that we're going to fight as much as we can, we've been doing it since the last two or three regular sessions at the beginning, we're proposing amendments and amendments to the law, the parliamentary majority has no understanding so far, we were hoping it would be with this law proposed by the government. And who is to blame for impoverishing citizens, so I think it's quite clear that the greatest poverty of the citizens has occurred in the last four years. It was then that the poverty rate rose from 8% to 12% and the poverty rates from 12% to 25%, which is why we are the first in Europe to be reported by the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13725	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13726	I thank the chairman. I'll do it for the public. So, the bill promoter, or the government, wants to introduce excise duties and domestic coffee processors, as the importers have so far. What's practically happening to you on our market? In addition to having a VAT which must pay whether or not he has collected his claims, the domestic producer will wait for him to have mercy on that 60-day payment currency that comes up to 100 days, to pay all possible taxes, if, from personal experience, I know, he has a family in his factory, in his plant, he has to pay all taxes for it, so that he waits for the state to refund it when he has the funds, literally so it is said. So now he has to pay the excise. On the other hand, the importer who certainly pays excise duty is now stimulated to go to "dumping" price, to close all these small domestic producers in a year that are not worth anything that the government is pretending to stimulate small businesses, family businesses, etc. They're shutting down. So even the income tax that also fills our country's budget goes to the countries from which these large importers come. On the other hand, I ask very seriously everyone who dares to say this reduces the grey economy, whether you can stand in front of Serbian citizens and claim that large companies like Croatia, which here sells coffee, do not sell on the black market, do not sell without paying VAT. I'm not going to accuse, I don't have any physical evidence, but when you claim to me that you've controlled quite responsibly that they don't, I can believe that this measure has even that grey economy in mind. As for everything else we can hear tonight, we can't stop the MPs from being humiliated here, if that's what they want. But don't think that citizens don't watch the transmission at this time. There's life out of this room, and you're going to meet the citizens, so don't fight so hard for something you don't believe in yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13727	Thank you. The Devere parliamentary group no longer has any time left for the parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13728	From the time of the parliamentary group. I can tell you, I don't have an adjective to describe this exposure when one of these amendments is being defended. So economically illiterate. They neither understand what the law says, nor have they read the arguments and explanations of the details of the law and the provisions that change or supplement them. Some might find that funny, but it's important to go out with a story about how domestic producers are protected, how they protect, and we favor importers, etc. So far it's been tax policy and excise, that when it comes to coffee, coffee excise is paid when it's put on the market, if it's done by domestic coffee processors. We don't have domestic coffee manufacturers. So we have processors. The amendment promoter should know that. On the other hand, one who imports fried coffee pays excise duty immediately at the border, or at customs. The amendments to this law are supposed to pay for raw coffee too, so what do you want? What are you telling me, coffee production is a major processing activity? Is that what you're trying to convince me? Or should we talk about who makes all the coffee, so who are you defending? Is that what you want? That's funny to you. Now, an economic illiterate doesn't know that you only pay for raw coffee. At each stage of processing, excise duty is paid. Something like VAT. In this way, all market participants are protected, to be equal, which may be a secondary consequence. The primary consequence is that if someone performs some work, they have to pay taxes. Everyone doesn't care if they fry coffee, whether they have meat industry, whether they have any kind of processing. You can't look at just one processing, so these imports can't smuggle, and those who fry coffee can. No, everyone has to, and those who don't do coffee, and they do some work, they have to pay taxes and excise tax. Only an economically illiterate man can write such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13729	Thank you. (Maria Janjušević, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication, your colleague spoke according to the amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13730	This is an interesting member, and if he existed in the bill and had not existed in the bill, nothing significant would have happened. And if you don't adopt the amendment, and if you don't adopt the amendment, nothing will happen. Here's the only change in the code of how it's run in the customs tariff. But here's another thing that's interesting. We learned a month ago from one of the legislators that there's something that's said analoguely and it exists digitally. Now I'm just surprised why you're not in line with that terminology you're using. You wanted to bleed a month ago. In this article of yours, this article would read like this – excises on the digital cigarette charge liquid are four dinars per milliliter. I expected you to make a change there, because these are what they are. electronic cigarettes, and these paper ones, they're analogous. That's what you're supposed to do. Don't convince me once, once a month has passed, a turkey pick doesn't apply, as if it were only for that session. I hold you by the word, what you said, EU standards, must be applied. That's the first thing. Another thing, haven't you forgotten some things? Accizes are introduced for goods and products. There's no domestic producer, foreign producer, no. The product and the goods are loaded and not all goods are suitable to be loaded with excise duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13731	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13732	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd take a short break, but they've never had enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13733	Thank you. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13734	The first part of this article that you've proposed, I do understand, is that it's some sort of determination of the first position in Article 18, but this intervention in the last position of Article 18, I really can't figure out what this is about. I get the impression that everything you do with this coffee, my dear coffee, this fried coffee, it's like something's going on behind it. It's just amazing to me that only in 2016 did you realize that raw coffee when it comes from abroad has to be fried with us, because we still don't have, thank God, these coffee plantations. Now you're inserting something about excise stamps and I think you're gonna make a mistake. At the National Bank, they made a mistake, there in that coin store, you know, in that print shop, and they printed out some of our passports and gave some of our terrorists about 200, 300. Do you remember that? It's a big affair. I'm waiting for something to start with the house on the subject. Keep in mind that someone didn't cheat on you when he told you about these excise coffee stamps and these packages, since you're doing that epic change in your last attitude. Make sure you don't make a mistake. That affair with the smuggled and falsified passports isn't over yet, and the Americans don't forgive anyone for that, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13735	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13736	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Krasic, I absolutely appreciate your involvement in this area. You've been doing this job, as far as I can remember, and I think I remember it well, especially in the trade sector, so you're familiar with the problem of these excise stamps. What's behind the hill is here, I think it's very important to figure out here, as you say, the epochal thing, which is that behind the hill is a fight against the gray economy, because excise stamps are actually a means of tracking coffee flows, as well as other products. Our goal is to get in the way of trying to go through gray, black zones, or something like that, so I think you've understood us very well in this part and you're quite clear that there's going to be zero tolerance here on any attempts to avoid paying excise duty. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica! He bit my heart. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13737	You have no basis, Mr. Krassic. You know you don't have a basis. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: he called me. The minister commended you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a representative of the promoter, National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13738	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, the Committee wanted to help identify practically those who are obliged to mark excise goods and the part that refers to the fact that there is no signification of the part relating to low-alcohol drinks below 5% alcohol, and of course certain packages of individual coffees are directly marked, and this is in line with the fact that the minister said the essence of the fight against the gray economy. So, this time we thank Minister Ana Brnabic for accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13739	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13740	Ladies and gentlemen, my political opponents that I thought I was having a debate with obviously went away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13741	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13742	Now the question is which member of our amendment is concerned, given that the Committee intervened, made some changes, and then the question is whether our amendment even makes sense. Maybe I'd give up if I could send out everything the Committee did, because in preparation for the Committee's amendment, I couldn't make it. But why was it our essence to delete Article 2's position? A bill of law? It is simply that we believe that this provision that the Government will determine the type of individual packaging of coffee for final consumption, which will be marked by a control excise stamp, simply cannot be found in this article. So this member is talking about the control stamp, about which general products are placed, what it looks like, like the press, the National Bank, but it doesn't tell which bottle to find, whether it's on a pack or not, a pack of cigarettes. So, no other excise products, they don't mention themselves in this article, except coffee. So it's as if the government has restricted itself by intervening those members of the law where this provision was meant to be found. So, the government had completely free hands to change every member of the law or to supplement it, to propose a new member, and we as MPs don't. Our objection is that this attitude that needs to be found should not be found in this article, because this member does not define what the final consumption packages are to be placed on, but just what that stamp control should look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13743	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. First of all, MP Zoran Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13744	It's on Article 20, practically, the basic text of this thing that's really built up by attitude 3, that's something that exists. One of the MPs before me explained how it goes with coffee. First he picks up some coffee, then he comes to the border like raw, and then he moves on. Accounting in this whole process, that's understood, and there's nothing problematic about it. In that sense, this upgrade, I don't know why you upgraded this when it works. But you really insist on this coffee. Let me just explain one thing to you. Nedimovic, you're right, I have great experience. Excise stamps can't beat the gray market. Milan Beko, two years in a customs warehouse, glued smuggled excise stamps. He complained about how his fingers fell off the stick. There are those who are beautiful now. Don't let me tell you cigarettes like everything's beautiful, how beautiful. But it won't stop the Excise Act, the VAT Act, or the Tax Administration Act. Take the order first at the police station, because you in the police department, you have a place at my place in Rakovica, Borska Street, there's a gendarme and you arrest a special police officer. Both in uniform. They're dealing drugs with each other. Now, close the lines. You gave up customs, the border of hollows like Swiss cheese. Take care of who owns the customs warehouses. Look what happened to the amendments to the Internal Navigation and Port Act. Anyone can pour fuel wherever they want. And don't let me tell you any more things. These are measures against the gray economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13745	Thank you, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13746	And I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13747	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13748	Again to me, for a completely unclear reason, coffee and coffee products are thoroughly discussed in members who talk about general excise products. Therefore, Article 20 states that it has the right to reduce the invoices of the excise duty paid on products obtained from the producer, or the importer of excise products, or only to produce them, or imports, which are used as reproductive materials in the production of the product to which the excise duty is paid. So this could have been applied to coffee. I don't understand why the same thing had to be written, he adds a new attitude that says he has the right to coffee, to vomit, or to reduce the excise duty when it comes to coffee. I see, I mean, this promoter has made a lot of effort to clearly define coffee, but I think it's in a completely wrong way. Instead of applying the general standards that exist and relating to all excise products, it is potentially working to be applied to the production and transport of coffee, it now introduces coffee for some reason as an excise product and defines what is done with it. For this reason, we have proposed to delete this member, because we believe it is completely unnecessary, that it can be applied to a valid member of the 20th and to coffee products that talk about the possibility of reducing the billing of that excise. So, of course, that's where the question is then how is it going to work? Who's going to do the bidding, since we're constantly listening to the tax administration overload and can't do some part of the work he's supposed to do, and now, here, we're adding a new completely unnecessary one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13749	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13750	We were supposed to come up with a 20th basic text to finally clear up what we're doing with coffee excises. We all agree here now. So, by introducing a coffee excise, or by clarifying its functioning, we do not build a burden and do not share domestic and foreign producers. You've had your earlier members clearly defined that you have an 80-dollar excise on unroasted coffee and another 100 dinars. We do not tax manufacturers, i.e. with excise stamps, define the difference between domestic and foreign producers. We define the product, it's a kilo of coffee. It is clearly stated here, this Article 20, that we will generally return, as well as the VAT system, the excise duty you paid, or specifically at raw coffee, to the processors, and for that amount, the price of the product will be reduced. It's just that the same thing as VAT, we're going to do is we're going to have vomiting, or excise action. I'm glad we finally realize that when we got somewhere in the middle of the law, that this wasn't a new tax burden, actually just to specify the mechanism of functioning the excise coffee policy. That's why this member actually can't be deleted, and it might be possible that we've outsmarted this member, but that certainly means that it's clear to everyone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13751	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13752	I will admit that the government is right and that unfair competition should be contained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13753	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13754	Thank you, Chairman. Here, of course, in the government's explanation, the real background is rediscovered and this law of yours, which, of course, the minister is trying to avoid, but I'm here to always remind him of what it says here. It says – the current way of taxing excise duty, only when imported, has been put as an observation by the European Commission in the framework of bilateral screening for PG 16 taxation. So, if it wasn't put in as an observation, would you be putting these excise stamps on all of this? Yes, you would. I suspect something, Mr. Minister, because you had five years of SNS power, so you don't put it in. And, of course, you can ask the question and what's going on in the tobacco sphere and all the other elements of gray, black, and I don't know what kind of economy you can't trace, because the question of who's dealing with it is. If that's what people close to the SNS do, you won't touch it, will you, Mr. Minister? If this is the case with other people, ordinary Serbian producers, processors, then let's give them extra taxation, because foreign banks are protected and foreign firms, like white bears. Those who deal with the gray and black markets, and the SNS are close, and they are protected as white bears. And let's do some poor girl or as we say in our neighborhood of boranium, to further tax that we live on them and play a fight against the gray market. Well, why don't you fight the gray market where you're close to the actors who rob the gray economy and everything else that blooms and thrives on our markets? What counterpart Krasic said, I absolutely support. You will not use these excise stamps any of what you said here that the change in excise coffee policy would lead to a reduction in the illegal turnover of this product. There, more should be given by certain inspection, police and various other activities, which are of course not worked out properly, because it is obvious that someone should be allowed to continue to be rich in an illegal manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13755	The right to a replica, authorised SNS representative Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13756	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you hear him. Does he say you're arresting those smugglers who are close to the SNS? Well, I can't help but say, the real Ilija Cvorovic, a real Balkan spy. He sees the conspiracy in everything. He's the only one who's honest. Only the eagle fell, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13757	Well, there isn't, because you're the one who caused the replica. If you had spoken specifically about the amendment, you would not have allowed Mr. Arsic to report and replicate. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13758	By amendment? Yeah, all right, then. Well, here, you see, we've now learned that those from the EU said -- you can't pay excise tax only on import and then you're in Article 21a. deleted item 2. It's said like this -- counting on coffee excises is done on imports. They wiped it out, those from the government. But you don't know how to negotiate with this from the EU. You should have said - this provision exists because coffee is not working in Serbia and they did not respect it. They still think coffee is growing in Serbia, you see. What's the EU? Anticu, the EU is about like this - our criteria for entering the EU is to take out your tonsils and you can be there. And you say, "Well, hello to my extremities." He says -- it doesn't matter if they take a break to get us into the EU. We're lucky there's no Boza Djelic, or that Dinkic. They'd say - and the third tonsil, just as soon as we left. That's the difference between you two. Accessive policy should be based on our interests. What do we care about the EU? I'll explain to you there at the cigarettes, where lucky for all of us from the EU to come to our house and smoke here. Em's cheaper. We can sell them more. We have cheaper alcohol, we can get them drunk better, get some money for them, get the damage out of that bombing. It's a real economic policy, that they adapt to us, not us to adapt to them. You want to go to our market? Our rules, here you go, pal, so come along, and we didn't sell everything just to get them to give us a pat. It's found in health, run-in, zero, what's your name, Nedimovic. You welcome, you, the NGO, you welcome the government for having passed the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13759	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13760	What you wrote as a literary composition makes real sense, but as a norm, it's impossible to apply. Now I'm going to tell you why it's impossible to apply. If you have found that someone has placed in illegal traffic, so is not authorized, has placed an excise product, then falls under the impact of appropriate standards that provide for some sanctions, confiscation of goods, confiscation of profits, confiscation of benefits, etc. It's been applied so far. And when the goods are taken away, it's sold through someone else, that third one pays the excise or someone buys, and yet he has to pay the excise, and here they invented a third one, to charge the excise from someone who's completely irregular. When someone is completely irregular, they're in something that's a crime, it falls under the fact that all tax regulations and criminal rules, and you're legalizing it this way. After that he can wave with that paper, here, I paid for it, I paid for the excise, it was forced, but I paid for the excise. It's just amazing that you're introducing this third form after 15 years since the law was passed. Is it possible that in 15 years you didn't have a situation like this? You've had and dealt with these situations. Not to tell everyone how you handled it. A completely unnecessary change, but I still didn't find out what the coffee principle was? All our coffees do have their own principles from abroad. Is that that Greek again? I drove one away in 2000. Is he back?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13761	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 9. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13762	Thank you. This amendment of the Committee essentially gives details of how excise duties are calculated at the time of the control procedure, when it is established that certain goods are placed outside the necessary documentation which has been placed on the market, and thus it has been defined that the control procedure has been established that excise products which are contrary to the provisions should be subject to a certain accounting of those excise duties, regardless of whether they would have been withdrawn at that time or if they do not have the necessary documentation to be completed, but that excise duties in a certain degree must be paid. On the other hand, we thank the Minister who accepted such an amendment on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13763	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13764	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame my fellow farmer isn't here because he's successfully smuggled pumpkins and wine and coffee. He'd know best what's controversial about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13765	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13766	Thank you. This is the last amendment of the Committee to this law adopted by the Government's representative. It speaks practically of the precision of the deadline within which it is necessary for the obligor to settle his obligations to excise duties and is brought in accordance with the law. So, the procedure for which the tax administration is also in charge is also being arranged on the basis of which it will make this payment within that specified time limit. I thank the government once again who had the understanding that we were together to specify all these details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13767	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13768	I'll cut it short after we've caught the chase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13769	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic submitted together to the 11th amendment. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13770	We are again seeking to delete this Article 2 item because, as in the entire Excise Act, we oppose the introduction of excise stamps for the coffee manufacturer. Once again, we repeat the exact same explanation. This is the EU's interest and the EU is simpler that some "Nestle"... for raw coffee grinds, makes a mixture, packs and then places it on the Serbian market, so that's great. But I guess we have an interest in some people working, getting paid, making money, some entrepreneurs or some company making some profit and doing business in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's the interest of Serbia. The European Union is fighting for its interests, but here the problem is that we are not fighting for our own interests. I would not agree that the reason for the introduction of fiscal order, i.e. preventing the gray economy in the transport of coffee, is because, as previous MPs have said, excise stamps do not fight the gray economy, but rather some other measures and some other means. It's just that we have one serious problem in these answers that you're making to these amendments. That doesn't stand, because you say one thing in the bill, the other you say in your oral explanation and the third you write here in writing. We have to point out, the interest of the European Union is clear, you define it in the reasoning of the law, you define it in the explanation of the amendments, just like this, orally, in the conversation, you cannot admit that the European Union has an interest, it has made us do it, we have no interest at all. Personally, I wish all producers of domestic coffee owned by Serbian companies. Unfortunately, the biggest producers were estranged during a previous period, but when we mention that we would not allow it, the ruling majority, or counterpart Djukanovic, are attacking us and saying that this is impossible and that this is not something the Serbian Progressive Party is dealing with. We have one serious conflict between two policy perceptions and two political philosophys – you are listening to the interests of foreigners in everything, and we are fighting for Serbia's economic interest in everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13771	According to the amendment, the word is authorised by SNS authorised representative Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13772	From the time of the parliamentary group. You see, I, as ignorant and rude, know that coffee excise is paid without this law. They don't know. They're talking to talk. It's not a coffee excise that's being introduced here, but it regulates the way in which you calculate the excise on coffee. And it's not that the European Union wants a market in Serbia, you're wrong. That's what the ignorant doesn't know, and she can't even read what it says, which is the scariest thing. So, once the administrative barriers to coffee products are lifted, our coffee can be smuggled into the territory of the European Union because of the poor way of calculating excise duty. Would you allow that? No, you wouldn't. (Srdian Nogo, from the place: The EU will fail. ) You see with Milo Djukanovic, he will explain it best. So these domestic coffee producers, because of the regulated excise policy and the method of reckoning, can also participate in their market, otherwise they couldn't. That's what the law says. Nothing more. At least read the law properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13773	National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13774	Thank you, Chairman. Luckily, it's still about coffee, so I can get over it. I may not have such knowledge as the individual MPs who sat here for 10, 11 years, while I was in the private sector and I can tell you, and the director of the company. But if I, fortunately or unhappily, am here for 10 or 11 years, I'll be far better than they are now. I thank you for that: eagles. That's a compliment to us. I don't know if the eagle has fallen, but I tell you, from the eagles you will never have an eagle. And now a little bit about this European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13775	If we can, just about the amendment. We can, just like the other MPs who try to talk to you about wasting their time, so I'm wasting my time and I don't see any reason to interrupt me. So, so much schizophrenic situation, that we have temporary measures such as a tax on RTS and pensions that temporarily, and permanently, decreases, we have laws that we adopt by emergency procedure and we apply them for a year or two, which is why – due to our obligations towards the European Union. You all know very well that the ultimate condition that we're going to have to fulfill is the denunciation of 15% of our territory. And this is now such a crime as to be committed, in doing so, another practical thing out of reasoning. So, we are in line with the rights of the European Union. In that... My colleague Janjušević...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13777	Let me finish. In doing so, these legal forms are not... - The microphone's off.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13778	My colleague Janjušević, I have tried three times to direct you to discuss the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13779	I'm talking about the amendment. You are not talking about an amendment to Article 11. The amendment reads: "Article 11. The proposal for Article 2 shall be deleted. “ And the text of the bill, Article 11: “In Article 30, paragraph 1, following the words, ‘bithicity’ is added to the word ‘caf. ’ By amendment? Please, sign in. "Delete" is the only right word for what is offered here as a legal regulation. I'm very sorry we don't have the opportunity to erase these 16 years, not these members of the law you're offering us here. But believe me, the consequences will not only be borne by citizens. Those of you who think you're gonna get away with it, are you gonna pick up your money and go outside or are you gonna get back into some new... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13781	You definitely have no intention of talking about the amendment. Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party's authorised representative, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm illiterate, but I started working at the age of 20. And it's in the economy, not politics, in the private business. But you don't know that. If you knew, if you were really working, you'd know you were reading the law. So I learned this from real life, from what's in the economy. I also studied while volunteering here for three years as a National MP. (Maria Janjušević throws.) I've been studying. Yes, it is. So it's time for you to start learning. When I wasn't sure about something, I wasn't talking nonsense, I was keeping my mouth shut. I would like to ask the amendment that, apart from writing – it is deleted, which is completely legitimate, it wants to speak for two minutes, at least two minutes that has the right use, not to bring out false, fiction and show how ignorant it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13783	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13784	In order to work more efficiently, I will give up further explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13785	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the city: The amendment has been skipped. Just a minute. You're right. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. Natasha Spa. Jovanovic: We will not cheat, colleague, in small hours. We've come to rejuvenation of the excise. And that we were right, we Serbian radicals, when we suggested that this article be 12. Deletes and lists how many times since the basic text of the law has so far changed the law, says one scandalous case. I believe that my colleague Arsic did not even hear and believe me, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, that I did not, at the moment we submitted this amendment, fully learnt about the case that took place between 2013 and 2015, and everything surfaced in April this year. In fact, although a law was passed which was last amended in 2015, as you are now changing it, at the end of 2016, and a new regulation was adopted, so that the companies, in Serbia that used them, which had a return of excise duty, fuel for industrial production, had to return it to the god of what the finance ministry had ordered them to do, because the error in the law was enormous. By special regulation, you can imagine, people find out about this after two years, such as the Katolin company Valjevo, which deals with the production of water treatment products. In April of this year, in the course of the election campaign, there is no government, there is nothing, you are scattered everywhere, talking will be better and now you tell people – return 90 million. Now their employees can't accept it because they pay, because a catastrophic mistake has been made. That's how you improve the economy and steal Serbian businesses. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13787	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think this time the government is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13788	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, together with the MPs of the DS group, submitted to the 13th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13789	It's a member that refers to the reflection of the excise, and everything already exists. There was no need to build this member with a new attitude at all. The right to reflect the excise duty, the excise duties paid have faces – the importer of the product that exported the product. Of course, kerosene and fuel, it's another story, etc. With excise products, you can't put it in the same basket as when it comes to other goods. We have a situation to import something that's raw materials, semi-factory etc., it fertilizes here so it's exported, and then there's some possibilities around customs, VAT if it's excise and excise, etc. I don't know why you installed this exactly like this – paid as an importer, and it reflects if it exports the same. I don't see any economic justification for the job. He had to infuse something in the meantime. He had to raise the value of the product. He had to charge his hands, to bring down what everyone could understand. This is how this formula is given just like it doesn't belong, just like it doesn't belong here. I fully understand the economic interest that someone wants to put something together here, makes it here to conquer some new markets, etc. It's all normal, but in excise products, they're not like that kind of business, except for banned jobs. Now a little bit of stacking of dice – Danube...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13790	I thank my colleague Krasic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13791	For the sake of more efficient work, I will give up the interpretation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13792	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13793	Article 14 refers to Article 40 of this Act and speaks of the reflection, i.e. the return of excise duties to persons from the previous member, and you have added here the part which says that – the invoice of the importer of the excise product with the excise duty shown on imports, i.e. a single customs document proving that the excise duty is paid on imports, as well as proof that the products are exported. You do not accept our amendment to delete it because you say that persons of Article 39 of the basic law are having a reflection of excise duties based on written request with evidence that they paid the invoices of the excise product manufacturer etc. We now have a situation that you are excises, that the state of excise duty has returned 35 companies and that you are now asking these companies to return those excises. Based on what? How did you figure that out? How did you let the excises come back, into something they're invested in, something happened, say in production, into new jobs where you swear, and now these people -- what? If you make them return those funds, what will they do, fire the people they have hired in the name of the means they have received? So this is simply amazing, not just this member, but the whole law that speaks of the unseriousness and irresponsibility of those who unfortunately manage the state, and that is the same way from 2000 to today. That's how it says exactly the fact that you change this excise law 20 times, every time it gets worse and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13794	National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13795	Because of the dynamics we've achieved, I'm going to give up further explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13796	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13797	We're moving on. Article 15 refers to Article 40a point 1 and you are changing certain periods and amounts, and you are neither in the light of the law nor in the explanation of the ministers when they spoke, in fact, not an authorised minister, we know that the Government can delegate whoever it wants, but essentially that minister who might be able to explain and answer any question has not even shown up, so you did not convince us that calculating and paying excise duties on cigarettes will really contribute to the extent to which the budget is charged, but in this way you have increased the price of cigarettes. We know that cigarettes, as well as alcoholic beverages and other luxury goods, are the most suitable for increasing excise duties and we generally don't mind that when you have to, when you need to increase excise duties to be exactly on these goods, but you do this a little often. A few months ago, you raised the price of cigarettes and it's not good to do it again. You know, you can't fight smoking by increasing the price of cigarettes, at least not in the state of Serbia where more than half a million people work for a minimumer, and unfortunately many of these people are smokers, aware of all the negativeities of cigarettes and smoking, but the state can't fight tobacco smoke in this way, as it's popularly said, by these people who work for such small money and who are every day...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13798	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13799	We'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13800	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13801	For the same reason as the last time, for the sake of dynamics, I will give up the interpretation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13802	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13803	I'm glad he's still holding on to Mr. Arsic, and I hope he's just temporarily out of the O.R. I can't wait to continue the dialogue. As regards this amendment, you explain why you do not accept the amendment – the amendment is not accepted because, in view of the amendment of that member of the bill, there is a gradual alignment with EU standards in achieving a minimum level of taxation when it comes to taxation of cigarette excise duties. You see, we're just explaining why we're proposing our amendment to express one fear. It is not disputed, it is a previous speaker, a colleague said that if excise duties are already to be taken best to be products such as tobacco and health damage, but what about the situation which Serbian incomes are far below EU income? And what if it does, and we've had one discussion about the budget on the subject, what if it leads to a rise in the gray economy? Because, simply, there will be more and more avoidance and distortion of laws, and people will go into the gray economy because because of the burden and the level of excise duty, and this means that from 2017 to 2020 to 2020 to achieve this minimum level of taxation from the EU, they will not be able to pay tobacco at EU prices because wages are not like EU wages. We can come up with a paradoxical situation that makes our budget less full than we've ever been before. Is that what this was all about? We have the same hypothetical situation around those excise stamps. Perhaps counterpart Krasic knows something that I do not know, and then in the previous case he asked – what if we get a situation to be threatened by the EU? As Arsic said, because he's worried about the EU, what if we're going to smuggle coffee into the EU, what if someone stamps excise stamps in a coin, so they're distributed to tobacco producers, e.g. from Kosovo, so it is illegally transferred to the EU or anywhere. It can also be traded with excise stamps it's very, very embarrassing, but maybe Krasic knows more than I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13804	Thank you. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13805	Chairman, I'll just agree that coffee is no longer so much a profit, and I agree that we still need those excises through tobacco products, and that coffee is no longer the biggest coffeemaker, the progressive, has moved on to local television to buy them and create media darkness here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13806	That has something to do with the amendment. Let's move on. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13807	Thank you. I expected to hear first of all how much of the excise excise duties are based on certain types of excise goods, which would be the basis for any quality debate. Otherwise, in all countries with a market economy, the problem of excise goods is always current and the point is that as much of the excise revenue is provided in the budget, and it is provided not only on the basis of the level of excise duties but also on the scope of the excise goods. Therefore, when determining the level of excise duty, it should be taken into account whether the coverage will be reduced by a higher excise duty, so that the inflow in the excise budget will be less than it would be with smaller excise duties per product unit and with far greater coverage. Our country has a particular problem, because there is practically no border controlled by KIM, there is a very weakly controlled border with Montenegro and there comes a lot of excise goods that are subject to the gray economy. Furthermore, this Article 15 covers the period from 2017 to 2020, and it is said in Article 20 that on 1 January 2018, there will be a level of excise duty per pack of cigarettes if prices rise by 2%. Therefore, since this level of excise duty per pack of cigarettes will certainly be revised during this period from 2017 to 2020, the question of the purpose of such a qualified member is raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13808	Thank you. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13809	This is a member who has quite a change in Article 40v of the basic text of the law and he is related to the previous member, there is no history in this Article 40a, but it exists long ago, and it is the result of EU pressure. It's similar with this 40v. I just have to draw attention to you, here it is already evident that the draft law is in doubt, and it is in a kind of divide between the cigarette manufacturer in Serbia, these are foreigners who have bought in some way one exclusive law and the state has a commitment to them, and something that is the way to the EU, and the EU has not yet completed its vengeful activities towards cigarette manufacturers, because for many years it is a big dispute, weighing over ten billion dollars, in front of a court in New York, which has declared competent to resolve at the EU's request that it sues all producers for illegal trade and major losses on the European common market. And that's what's going on with us. Now, this Article 40v still provides some assurance that the nominal amount of excise duty from the previous member should be aligned with the growth of so-called. consumer prices, it's sometimes in the golden age of rising prices to a little bit, and here we count that inflation is controlled, just to finish one sentence, that controlled inflation will be in one long time, so it's projected to 2%, and we pray to God if it is, and 4% will be okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13810	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. He's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13811	I can't do this without my colleagues, Radulovic, as I call him Rodney-Del Boy, I can't understand this coordination in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13812	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 17th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13813	This is actually the arrangement of Article 40d, which speaks of paying excise duty on smoking tobacco and other tobacco processing from 31 December 2012 to 1 January 2016, when excise duties increased from 35% in 2013 to 43% this year, which is 8% higher. Here you add one member that talks about the exceptions to item 2 which is actually the basis for calculating the excises of those that I just read. Now in an explanation why you do not accept our amendment to delete this, you have overwritten this article, that is, this addition to Article 40b, which you have, as a newspaper in this law on amendments and amendments to the law, proposed for adoption. So, you haven't told us anything new, nothing that could possibly convince us that maybe we didn't think that we could have done what we suggested erasing each of these members. But the more we go to explain one of these amendments, the more we're convinced that this is really the only way to show you what our relationship to this law is, and we're convinced that it's really one general opinion and a general mood. Because you can't just pull your hand deeper and deeper into the pocket of Serbian citizens to stabilize the state of the budget, which as long as you try to represent it as wonderful and wonderful, is actually far from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13814	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13815	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in explaining and voting on these amendments, I would like MPs who are not at the quorum when their amendments are discussed, or at least not during the vote, to amend such amendments in the future Rules of Procedure, so as not to vote on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13816	Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Tatjana Macura, Dr. Ana Stevanović and Mr. Jasmine Nikolic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivković, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their MPs. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13817	Here, we have reached transitional and final provisions, and transitional and final provisions are actually the only new members in these amendments of the law. In particular, Article 18 speaks about the average weighted retail price of cigarettes, tobacco for smoking, and other tobacco processing for 2017, which suggests that we will have very soon re-changes and additions to this law. What counterpart Krasic was just saying about the planned inflation, still you, in fact, deny this law what you are saying in public. You didn't, of course, accept this amendment, we didn't expect you to accept it, but yet the government has shown that it actually cares about what the MPs are writing, because it's back in the argument that the amendment is not accepted, just copied in fact in a slightly shorter version of Article 18. We really expect a more serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. If the MPs try to submit certain amendments and explain these amendments, then the least we expect is for the government to explain to us by reason, it shows that at least she has read what the MPs have written, and not just to go over it by calculating we have a majority, someone will already vote for it. But that's not good, it's not good messages you send to Serbian citizens, and believe me, they're not happy that you're increasing their price of cigarettes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13818	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13819	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry that my fellow farmer isn't here to explain the average weighted price, since during Sablje he sold an entire cigarette factory to the tobacco industry Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13820	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Tatjana Macura, Dr. Ana Stevanović and Mr. Jasmine Nikolic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 18th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13821	Article 19 is also a new member in these changes, and here you have predicted when you will determine the first weighted average retail price of cigarettes and minimum excise duty on cigarettes, smoking tobacco and other tobacco processing. In this article, you say you'll be doing this job by February 15, 2018, you say, based on data on the total value of all cigarettes, etc. We ask you why this deadline, was it possible to do so before? Of course, we do not accept your argument which is why you do not accept our amendment. We repeat what we have been saying since the beginning of the debate on this law. What's the point? The bottom line is you take another dinar to that people who can barely put an end to the end. Certainly no smoker will accept if you say so, so if it puts an end to it, why smoke cigarettes. Well, I guess that's one way to deal with the pain the citizens of Serbia have been pressured. I repeat, those 600,000 who work for a minimumer and who do not fit the average price you speak of at conferences and in public at all. So, both this law and this article warn that life in Serbia is much different and more difficult and much more expensive than what we see at the public service that we talked about at the beginning of the day and about its objectivity and reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13822	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13823	Since it's a matter of minimum excise duties, and my fellow farmer is not here, I have no one to consult with, so I'm not going to explain this amendment any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13824	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their message. The People's MP Jovo Ostojić has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13825	Thank you very much, Chairman. MPs, this is about amendment 20. Proposal for a law to delete Article 20. The proposed solution is the amendment of that member and the explanation of the proposed solution is the following – the amendment is submitted because there is no reasonable market reason for any amendment to this law. I suppose you have in mind that the law was passed in 2001, amended in 2001, 2002 and 2003, twice. In 2004, three times, in 2005, twice, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, twice, 2012, twice, 2013, 2014, twice and in 2015. It is always in line with the EU's highest standards, and it would be a wonder if something had missed beyond the EU's mandate. I don't know if anything in this country can happen that the EU hasn't gotten its fingers involved? What can happen? Are we already in the EU, or are you now seeking to go to the EU? How many amendments have been submitted here? How much did you accept? Is it possible that all these amendments that we endure, that none of them are worth anything, and everyone who endures the ruling, to say the coalition best, since the coalition is accepted, the horror is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13826	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13827	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13828	Finish one more sentence. Do you think that no one else but the ruling coalition understands these facts about excises and similar laws that are here but only the ruling coalition? A radical party will come to power and you will see that it will be better. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13830	Ladies and gentlemen, just to be clear, I've been denied 70 to 72 amendments. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13831	Thank you. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 21st amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their message. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13832	You know what all these bill proposals you've put in one spot, 27 different billings and decisions are like? It's like you're practicing to see what could be done, or you've been practicing before, because in each of these laws, you're actually just extending some deadlines. I've said it more than once, and I'm going to say it again, it's actually about the insecureness of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's impossible and you can't talk about someone else's fault anymore. It is specifically for this Excise Act, because 20 amendments to this law from 2001 to today were. But how can we trust you now to believe that this deadline that you have predicted by 2017, too, will be a deadline that will be respected? On your face? Don't, Minister, please, not on your cheek. We can't even trust you to sign it, let alone the cheek. We have bad experience with both ministers and the government. So a few now go ahead with the members of this bill, and so it was with all the laws before this and with the ones that are still waiting for us in particular, you actually, what to conclude, you haven't done anything. If you'd done anything, I guess at least some of this would have been over and you wouldn't have to extend the deadlines. Are you even ready to do something with these new deadlines you're predicting in these bill proposals? Your laws are bad, and the consequences of the government's poor work. Here, no minister will say whether these deadlines set out in these draft laws will be respected or in a few months, perhaps in some other composition and assembly, we will discuss amendments to both this and the other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13833	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13834	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret once again that the economic gromada, my fellow farmer is not there, because he is best understood in cigarettes or smoking, because during "Sablje" in 2003 he managed to sell two cigarettes factories for three times less prices. He knows best how the excises were coordinated, because he promised in the next five years a predetermined excise, and by the way he sold the monopoly, all the smokers for a few years that no one else had the right to produce cigarettes except for the customers and the two factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13835	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13836	Indeed, a few members have, I must say, since 1993 I've been in this building, probably for the past four years, but for the first time I've seen that something that no longer belongs to the law, but when you look at the law, it's those independent provisions that don't go into the text of the law, which are usually transitional and complete provisions of the law on amendments and amendments to certain laws, they're historical provisions because time has passed and every subsequent amendment, but that they change as historical ones, which are outside the law, I tell you, this is the first time I see it. And I see in this Act on Excises that this has happened before, and I also see this Law amending the Law on Courts, that the last few of these amendments have been in part of those independent provisions that you do not even have in the consolidated text, or the editorially purified text, and here is the "Official Messenger" when it publishes this website of Paragraph, he throws those provisions out of the last provision and says – independent ones who have no longer entered. It doesn't change, it's the history of one regulation. It's the end of time, you don't have to change it. In that sense, I don't understand these members at all from 21st to 26. What you want to show that way is not clear to me at all. They don't exist, so they don't exist in the text of a law that's in force. Why would you change something that's history or something that's past? The past doesn't change. The past can't change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13837	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13838	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that my colleague Radulovic is not here because it is a tax application to explain all possible shortcomings, since he has managed to avoid paying taxes to the United States five times more successful than Alko Pone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13839	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesić, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13840	Again as before, the applicant of the amendment, i.e. The Dveri Group considers that persons who perform processing, frying, packaging and related other operations, in order to produce coffee, should not be treated as excise goods producers. The bill promoter wants to equalise these persons with importers, a domestic producer with importers, and to create equal market conditions. It is an EU interest, but it is not the interest of Serbia, Serbia's economic interest and Serbian firms. And that's all the point we want to point to. So, no more preventing smuggling, either in Serbia, no more saving the EU from possibly smuggling from Serbia to the EU, as someone wanted to present. Let's go back to what you've given in the light of this law and what's the real reason, aligning with EU directives and EU findings. That's the only truth. You can't make excuses, I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues in Arsic to try to explain it one more time, to see what the new one might invent, but simply, the facts are very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13841	Thank you. There is no colleague Arsic, there is colleague Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13842	Thank you very much. I'm calling for her not to be accepted, of course. One measure, one of the goals that we've been trying to achieve, we've said it many times, but unfortunately when someone doesn't want to hear and won't understand, there doesn't seem to be any help. So one of the goals is just to put the illegal market out of play. And as for the story of Europe, when I hear any comment on this subject from someone who is able to find at least Europe on the map, I will talk more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13843	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 24 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13844	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret that the two great economic giants, Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Radulovic, were not here to explain to us all the charms of the traps this law carries, and since they are not there, I will give up the interpretation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13845	Thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stanković and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesić, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13846	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, this amendment, which has been tabled by a large number of MPs, requires the removal of Article 25. I think it's better than any explanation of what's written in article 25 and what we've cited as a reason for erasing, is this moment where we're having this debate. Now it's twenty to two, we're here as in a MacKi novel -- and horses kill, right, we're fighting here who's going to stay longer, whether we who have proposed amendments or representatives of the government that change, flying along with helpers who come in and out, to see who's more durable. And the only reason for all of this to happen is that the Prime Minister changed his decision by yesterday was that last Thursday in the month would come to answer the questions, but it seems that he changed his mind and we now have to get off the hill, from the bottom, forcefully to finish this session before Thursday so that the questions to the government wouldn't be. I think this is a humiliation to parliament that the way we conduct this debate at this time of night, about issues that are allegedly important to the citizens of Serbia, because here, we hear that this whole law should root out illegal coffee trade, to allow for better budgeting, surpluses and I don't know, similar things, but not better citizens' lives, and that the only reason why we're sitting here right now, that the Prime Minister wouldn't have to come Thursday from four o'clock in the afternoon, to answer the question of MPs. I think that you, the chairman, should interrupt this session, because this is not a endurance contest, but this is a parliament that needs to negotiate and discuss the laws and end this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13847	Thank you. As far as I can tell, none of us here are tired, we can work another 24 hours. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13848	From the time of the parliamentary group. Well, I see that some colleagues need to learn more about the economy. I'm here. I'm available 24 hours a day. Maybe some people are sleeping. We are not laying down these regulations because of the EU directive, but to regulate our fiscal system. It is, because instead of throwing away, you don't tell us where the salaries are paid to teachers and teachers. Why don't you tell me where you pay off the doctor's funds? Why don't you tell us where we're from? Why don't you tell us where the schools came from? Don't get it, just answer it. Where do you think it's being maintained? Where do you think your employees get their salaries from rather than taxes? These laws are also passed by this Excise Act of Article 25, which regulates how to charge excise tax for us. And if someone thinks that because we're going to introduce stricter regulations, not regulations, but a stricter way of controlling law enforcement, coffee to collect, the obvious is in big trouble. Because the difference that is made in the gray market does not affect the price level, but those that are processors to earn more. Now, if you prefer processors to make more money than our doctors, professors, teachers, our paths, our schools, our preschool institutions, you attack this law. I hope you learned something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13849	I thank my colleague Arsic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13850	Well, first of all, I want to point out that ministers don't change here by flying changes. A colleague of Nedimovic is here all day, and my colleague Brnabic and I were, I say, on shift here with him, too, as a whole, which for MPs especially from these left parts of the hall could not be said. Indeed, I want to point out that we are not competing here in endurance. We came here to complete the discussion in particular, and if there is a reason why we are in this room at this time of night is the consequence of the fact that 1470 amendments have been filed on all laws, of which 90% - are deleted. That's what the public of Serbia and Serbian citizens should know. And when colleagues say in the opposition order, why don't we accept those amendments? Well, of course we don't accept them because none of them offers any creative solution but only – it is deleted and everyone is in office – two minutes buddy and the citizens of Serbia need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13851	I thank the ministers. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is my last amendment to this law, and I think this law contributes to the regulation of the state, to the regulation of our market. That the state can live off the incomes it collects, not spend much more. One of the reasons why I submitted these amendments is that I insist on defending my amendments by wanting the opposition to wait for Thursday, to see them all together running away like Mr. Radulovic and Professor Pavlovic, escaped from me, but I am doing my best for nothing. Representatives of opposition parties who have submitted amendments do not want their amendments to defend, but are now enjoying some cafes, and I am trying to drag them to that Thursday with a desire to see them run away again before the Prime Minister and members of the government's answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13853	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic together submitted the 25th amendment. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13854	One little lesson. How to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia to the highest extent full of citizens and we now have, tonight, excise and VAT, and the amount of 60 and over 60% of the budget, these are consumption taxes. It's not the government of the Republic of Serbia, it's not full of these budgets, it's full of citizens, citizens who buy all these products, so they're the ones who finance the budget. So please don't speak demagogy here. As far as the budget situation is concerned, it's important to say that by equating coffee importers and domestic coffee processors and domestic coffee processors... (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: What month? Mr. Orlic, I know you don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13855	Please, just don't throw it away. Go on, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13856	Well, you, Mr. Chairman, then warn the People's Messengers not to earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13857	Thank you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13858	Equalising the position of importers with domestic processors, part of the money that would be in the budget from the income tax that domestic processors would have... Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Who? Mr. Arsic, so how? Because you're destroying a domestic processor. Because it's easier to build somewhere abroad Nescafa and to import it here into Serbia, because then it's going to destroy everything economically, because it can't be equal. I would also prefer that the gentleman from your party continues to make coffee and that he is in charge of Serbia. So I would support him. And I criticise the MPs of my party for taking him as an example, because that is not something to call you for at all. Better that man, and I'd be the first to stand in his protection than strangers. It's not my fault Darko Bajcetic took 300m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13859	Comrade Nogo, please talk about the amendment. Please talk about the amendment. It doesn't make sense. Look for tolerance, two minutes, don't talk about the amendment. Thank you, let's move on. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13860	Replica, Mr. Chairman. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: Based on what? ) Based on the name of SNS. Let me try to explain to my colleague. So, there's no change in the rate of excise duty on coffee, it doesn't change, it stays the same. It is the same excise for importers of fried coffee, it is the same excise for those who process coffee in Serbia. Today, that's how it is. We regulate this law on how to calculate already existing excise duties in a way that abuses and the grey economy will be reduced to a lesser extent. Now, so a colleague agrees that we should let everything in Serbia get smuggled, he's head-on. Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. So it hasn't changed its rate, it's still paying for the same excise, just a different way of calculating the excise. I don't understand what this has to do with the EU. He got caught up in it. Oh, man. So we want to charge the excise on coffee, not to end up with those who fry, process and distribute coffee. It's a gray economy. It's tax evasion. That's what you're up for, tax evasion. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: It's not true. How is it not true? That's exactly what you keep saying. You also caught yourself on the pretext that compliance with EU rules favours EU importers. That's not true. It's not favoring it. There's a excise, so she's already paid, people. So we're not making up anything new, we're just counting and showing off in a different way. In translation, it would be like some kind of excise on added value. He has the right to refaction, as well as value added tax. Now, don't make it literally because of politics, you're not telling the truth. So if so, then, what you're saying, say the consequences. Consequences - we allow it to continue to be smuggled. That's the consequence. It's the result of your discussions. I'm telling the truth or you don't know what you're saying. I know very well. So, until now there's been excise payments, now there's a excise on the coffee that's first imported, so it's fried, so it's packed, and when it's put on the market, the excise is paid. Right? Is it possible that one part of the coffee disappears between the range of the oven, or the packaging? And it's how it's possible and it's done. Don't pretend like you're not working. And you protect them who do it. Now, excise duty is paid at the border and in the entire production process until the final placing on the market is particularly calculated by the excise, with the fact that whoever has already paid the excise duty on the bought coffee recalculating and seeking a refaction to the previously paid excise duty. What's so controversial about that? Should I draw on the board? Looks like I need it. Or algorithms, what? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13861	Thank you. Comrade Vladimir Orlic, on what basis? (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replication to the mention of the party? (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13862	I wouldn't use this, Mr. Chairman, but I'm sorry not to devote for at least a few seconds, when a gift in the form of a replica fell, to comment on what we just heard through the story of whoever caused the replica, and through what we heard from people on the same side of the hall, I mean the complete new DOS. So, if someone here doesn't understand anything, it's more than clear, and there's a colleague, Arsic, absolutely right. I'm afraid here or drawing on a big board, no coloring would do any good. So it's just to talk about what, the budget, whether or not someone missed notice, it was a long time ago. But all of this is absolutely at the same level, same level as what we can hear from that side of the other side, whose peak is to suggest some things on the subject of Santa Claus. You're all the same, don't you think?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13863	Thank you. Before I give my word to Minister Branislav Nedimovic, you have no right to a replica. A colleague, Arsic, stuck to the amendment. He didn't mention his name for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13864	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104 states when we have the right to replication. I didn't mention Mr. Orlic in any negative context, I just mentioned his last name. As far as I know, the opposition MPs are never allowed to be mentioned on the basis of what they are mentioned, because there is always an explanation – you are not mentioned in a negative context. Mr. Orlic, I didn't mention your name at all in a negative context, so by giving him the replica you misused the right to deny the MPs of the opposition. My colleague Arsic, speaking directly to me, reporting after me, speaks directly to me, without mentioning the name, but clearly – to the previous speaker, looking at me, saying about my presentation, claims that I was false, that I was deceived, that I didn't know what either. I think that on that basis I have the right to reply to my colleague Arsic not to tell the truth and that everything I'm saying is in the law, and I don't know where he makes up all that stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13865	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'll explain. There was also a mention of the party, and the misread discussion of Mr. Orlic. And for Mr. Arsic, I'm telling you, I listened very carefully. Mr. Arsic spoke very professionally for three minutes, focusing exclusively on the amendment. So there's no reason to be angry. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: Yes. All right. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 25th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13866	Thank you. I hope I finally got it right now. We're actually additionally protecting the importers now, because they're going to be part of the excise they paid to make up for when they charge that small producer their product. But it doesn't matter. I've already caught Arsic twice in a lie. The first time he said we were violent, because I know very well that that's not true. He said all of Serbia saw it. That's not true, he lied about it, so why don't we do other things. Second, he said I was talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13867	Col. Janjušević, please, do we need to talk about fellow Members of the People's Parliament at two o'clock in the morning and go beyond the subject and beyond the amendment? I beg you, continue, just please talk about the amendment, nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13868	Thank you, Chairman, but it's not my fault that it's two hours now, that we have 27 points of the agenda and a thousand and some amendments. You always expect, the right answer from our side, to expect resistance. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13869	Thank you, but we will not allow any insult to any of the MPs, any political option to belong. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13870	Please, two minutes, right on the line, for mentioning the name and everything. The discussion comes down to my colleagues across the street and my colleagues. Do not trust your eyes, but trust me, so the whole of Serbia saw what was going on in RIK, the whole of Serbia. So I'm supposed to take your word for it, I don't believe what your head of the presidential club was doing? Don't say that. Now, here again, let me say, it kind of dissuades what I'm saying. It is, it will have the right to refaction or return excise duties, because it will charge it again, that small charge it again. He will have the right to the previous and will always have the right to sell, not to the last, the final consumer, but to the series, whether the processor, whether the ovens have the right to recover more excise fees. That's what you do now with the extra value tax. It's nothing new. (Maria Janjušević, from the place: Pays the consumer. ) Well, now the consumer pays, and now the consumer pays. You obviously won't get it. So now the consumer pays, with one part of the coffee not going to disappear between the border and the end consumer, not going away. You claim that this missing piece is developing a small business, and I'm telling you it's a crime against those who pay taxes. Crime to those who pay taxes on a regular basis. You protect those who don't pay taxes. I can't understand that. It's for you, so under the pretext of social policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13871	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13872	I'm done. ... how she was led in the 1990s. You allow smuggling, and that's how you ruin that healthy part of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13873	Thank you. I have a colleague named Mark Milenkovic in my system. Did you happen to sign up or something? You don't have time. (Marko Milenkovic, from the place: No. All right, thank you. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13874	Thank you. I couldn't agree, under the same conditions, domestic coffee processors and raw coffee processors in other countries of Europe, because as far as I know, no country in Europe is making coffee, but imports raw coffee from each other and processing. That's why I think it was founded to delete this Article 25 or at least amend it. Second of all, the conditions of adjudication are not the same. For example, how much does our coffee importer pay interest on loans? How much does a coffee maker pay on the loans he took to get the equipment? How much of this same funding, these same loans, what is the interest rate in EU countries? Are those differences or aren't they? Furthermore, where do taxes and contributions remain for workers in processing facilities, coffee shops in Serbia? Here. Where do taxes and contributions remain and to whom do they remain in EU countries? I don't know. I'll point to another fact now. So, I don't have any data for 2016 because it hasn't expired yet, but in 2015, 32 thousand 686 tonnes of coffee, tariffs 0901 were imported into Serbia. It was exported, or reexperted 1,121 tonnes, meaning that the net imports were 31,565 tonnes. It's registered at the entrance. Nothing can be smuggled out of it, because the traceability of paperwork can be monitored. There's an entry customs declaration, you know how many oranges raw coffees are compared to fried coffee, etc. But there's another problem nobody here cares about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13875	Professor, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13876	Let me just have one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13877	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13878	I think it's important to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13879	Just talk. Thank you. However, according to all the analyses in Serbia 38,200 tonnes of coffee were spent in 2015. Where's the six thousand... [[Disabled microphone.]] The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13881	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are now asking some questions, and now I'm asking one question -- when it comes to illegal coffee shops, who gets paid taxes and contributions for employees, and they work? No one. Now let me explain to you what it looks like in real life. You know five tons of coffee can be imported. Let's just say he loses 30% when he frys. That's three and a half tons, selling five tons again. You don't know. The wheat or the barley will be inserted. That's what they do. That's why we're passing this law so they can no longer damage the state or the consumer and make extra profits. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: wheat? Yes, yes. It's on. And now those who represent the claim that this law should not be passed in fact defending smugglers and thieves. What's their interest? Maybe they're good with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13882	Thank you, colleague Arsic. (Miladin Ševarlic, from the place: Replica. There's no replica. He didn't insult you. He was just commenting on the amendment. You really don't, Professor. Miladin Shevarlic throws. You really don't have a right. Let's move on. Thank you. Members of the 26th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MPs Saša Radulović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Mr Ivan Kostic, joint MPs Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Constantović and Zdravko Stanković, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and joint MPs Aleksandar Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13883	We also suggested that this member be deleted. I'm surprised, Mr. Chairman, that you didn't react just now when Minister Antic resented us for proposing amendments where we propose to delete the proposed members. Of course, the consequence of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing to us, among other things, are these amendments, because if anyone is living watching this session, we should remind ourselves that we have discussed 27 points of the agenda within one point and that the only way to repay the Government was to make sure that we know what we think about these laws just by submitting such an amendment. It is not appropriate for Minister Antic who leaves, comes, walks to us sitting here this morning telling us to use time per amendment, as he says, "two minutes, mate". Maybe he was somewhere tonight listening to "two dinars mate" or now he's gone to listen to "two dinars", so he'll join us again, but don't please. Protect, we're colleagues. We respect ministers, especially, here, the Nedimovic who sits here. It's not exactly what we're talking about, but it doesn't matter, it's there. Don't let them disrespect us this way. It's not fair, it's about, since we're going to end this bill quickly, what's trying to, I don't know, have to have fried coffee, because I don't know how to add barley, wheat, etc. in coffee sold to citizens. It used to be when it was sold this unroasted coffee, so when some, fellow Arsic, got rich, then made churches, etc. Of course, I mean Bata Gasic, Bata Santos, so don't now, it's not fair that you don't let others get rich when that's exactly where the man got rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13884	Please don't throw it away. We're moving on. Thank you for this suggestion. Otherwise, I respect your contribution and what you're doing through these discussions. I don't think you interpreted the Minister correctly. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, answered the words. You don't have time anymore. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic reported. Here you go. Natasha Spa. Jovanovic: Dear colleague Mr. Chairman, this is not the first time and we have really long years, to say the decades of experience in parliament, and we happen to have very often these situations – to work until late hours. I advertise Article 27. And now we're still working. Someone said, in fact, Radeta's colleague, she wasn't kidding, she said seriously – well, when she boasts the prime minister that she can work all night, which would be better than her. He never stayed up all night in parliament, but Arsic knows that, as well as others, but I ask you to behave for a little bit of this atmosphere. This is where it really became a fairing atmosphere. We don't mind, we can talk in microphones, citizens who watch, follow us and hear us. Mr. Nedimovic, indeed, with respect to you, follow, and as far as you are involved in the topic, I really cannot know. (Branislav Nedimovic, from the place: I want to know everything. He does, he wants to know everything. But this situation, you see for yourself, on your right. Or ask your colleagues to come out for fresh air, drink some juice or water, of course, it's not meant to be late hours, and that's what many people who work asked me to do, I don't want to name them, harass these people who are left behind, who are employees, who do other jobs, there's coffee, there's breakfast in small hours, etc. Please, if we MPs are to work, and we'll do it all the time, if it's difficult for someone, just let them think of men and women, there's not a minister of Antic, often mentions Resavico and Rudnik, there are people in spears working around the clock, and their shifts last for 12 hours, and with equipment from who knows what year. Therefore, either grant this people here, the MPs, to behave with dignity, as is the case with the National Assembly, or take a break for them and allow us to work politely. Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure solely because, of course, it is too late, but Parliament is and it's not bad for it to be a little more alive at this time, because they're more lively and debates. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) The Republic has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13886	It is obvious that in Serbia only one thing is not forgiven – even if the success that guarantees man is not rich, but an independent life. And it's able to be resented. Watch out, not rich, not fairies and planes, but that a man has one family house, one car, so he can train his children so he can go on vacation. It's an independent life that we all strive for. And whoever does it before we do, we're gonna hate him. In this case, Batu Gasic. I'm not one of those people. And I never say anything against a man I'm not sure he did something wrong or did something wrong, not just because he has a certain success in accusing him of being a criminal and a smuggler. I've never done that. I would also ask my colleagues to refrain from all of this, especially since Mr Gasic was a member of the Serbian Progressive Party when she was in opposition. You think someone could have really broken the law, been a member of the Serbian Progressive Party before she came to power? No way. They would've locked him up right away. Don't do that kind of thing. Another thing – you can transfer a lot, but Mr. Gasic, if he did something, our dedicated industry has returned to its feet. He's secured thousands of jobs. He provided export arrangements for the country. He started reforming the army and modernizing the army. And no defence minister was better than him. If it's the same sin, then I don't know what a man should do, do he fail, do he go and sleep under bridges, that someone would love him? I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13887	Time. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13888	Thank you, Your Honor. This Article 26 speaks of the application of certain members of the law to be adopted and said that these members will apply from 1 January 2018. This, in fact, shows the senselessness of this legislative proposal, i.e. urgency, the need to urgently pass this law for provisions that should not start to apply for a year. Especially when it is put together with other laws that are passed, where the entry into force of the move, even those required under the Constitution is abolished for eight days, rather than said – must be immediately, the next day. So citizens and those interested in changing the law, as a rule, by this government, have one day to prepare for legal solutions. The government says in this case – a year. That would be good, but the problem is that this kind of policy is not implemented in other laws. We have already discussed several laws that will take effect the next day after publication. And the next few laws that are on the agenda have that provision. I would only beg ministers, when they adopt laws in the government, to be consistent and to adopt one principle. That principle should be the one for the benefit of citizens, businesses and others. And as they said here, for the benefit of the economy, first of all, it is to get to know the provisions of law and preparation for a year, to behave in other cases, not to bring us laws that come into force tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13889	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13890	It is interesting to listen to the presentation of an MP who has long been an MP, showing incredible ignorance and simply, due to such ignorance, must be served with falseness. I wouldn't mention it, but it's very common for words. You see, he said this man an amazing thing. First he wondered where the European Union was. Here, in response to the Government's amendments, you are constantly calling on the European Union. The government keeps talking – the European Union, the European Union, because of the European Union, we must, because of the SAA. It's a fake. So, the man didn't read the law or read the answers to the amendments. But he likes to take his word for it. And for a long time, he has been a Messenger of the people. We heard one interesting thing – that excise goods can enter Serbia without paying for excise and VAT. I ask the question – how? So, even if that stuff comes in, burns, excise and VAT will be charged. People, paper trails remain, the importer, so there are traces left. If it enters Serbia now without paying taxes and VAT, who knows what channels they are and you can't stand in the way of it. And what you are introducing is a one-time tax that you would like to charge twice. That you now have a vomiting of excises. Such a thing can only endure the strongest, only those who have tens of millions of euros in traffic. I'm asking the state - how much is it due at this point to get the VAT back to the companies? You already owe huge money now, billions of dinars to the companies, because you can't make VAT returns. And how much will you owe tomorrow for the excise refund? As far as smuggling is concerned, it is another thing whether there is a fictitious deleveraging at the border with Kosovo, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Macedonia. It's an empty tow truck, it's just paperwork, and then VAT returns are done. But you have other regulations to handle. This way, you consciously support various phantom Asamakums that they can rob the budget. But this is not what you're dealing with. You're solving this exactly the opposite, because of the European Union and this is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13891	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13892	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, some people have a fat face like a sole, and some people have no cheek at all. They bring lies here, even though they know, they can't say they don't know what they're saying, they know what they're saying, they're lying. There is a saying in the people, a lie, not a blink. Now that I've seen, now I've seen it for the first time. So, he mentions "Asumakum", we all know that it's settled, we know and we know who's responsible, they're arrested, it has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's brother, but no, it's important to mention. Now, look at this, this game can handle the most powerful, it pays multiple excises, so how do they handle the VAT, how do they pay for it? Another great lie, the state owes no one anything on the refaction of value added tax, but the easiest thing to say is – it owes, it's the easiest thing to charge without any arguments. What's protecting him? A constitutional provision that the MP cannot be held to account for his or her opinion or vote in the National Assembly. Let him go out with me to the conference and let him say that, see if he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13893	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please report.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13894	Thank you. Article 107, here's an inaccuracy that because someone who imports 1,000 tons, works for example, so instead of frying that coffee by 30%, it gets smaller...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13895	This is a replica. I can't really let you, Professor. This is a replica, you abuse. I'm sorry. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: According to the amendment, I have two minutes as authorized. We've moved on to the second amendment, I apologize. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: I am answering, Mr Marinkovic. I'm sorry, we're moving on. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You weren't in the system. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: How did I not? Here you go, colleague Rističević. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13896	Because of this neo-monetically modified coffee, I'm going to give up the discussion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13897	Thank you. Please don't throw away, please. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: am I in the system now? You're not in the system. Please don't throw it away, I'll give you a warning. The 27th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13898	Can excise goods enter Serbia without entering the customs procedure? You just didn't answer that, that's the key thing. You are not telling the truth and I accuse you of not telling the truth and of lying and misleading Serbian citizens with this law and with the argument you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13899	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Code on Taxation on Supplements You have received amendments and received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13900	Reading the reasons for this law, which we have now begun to discuss, somehow I feel sorry for you from the Government for what you actually have to endure here to pass on to the congregation majority. The basic reasons, you say, for the adoption of this law, the problems that the law should address, i.e. the objectives achieved by law, are to further comply with EU rules, which regulate the area, etc. So everything you do, you do on an EU order. Is it possible that they at least tell you to do some law that will last until the spring days? It's amazing. You're changing the laws at any moment. The ones with the eye, you with the jump. Give something small in the interest of Serbian citizens, let the EU go. Neither will Serbia enter the EU nor will the EU be soon. Look at what the people live on and what they live on. What did you predict in this article that we were looking for? This is about taxpayers, foreigners who are based in the Republic of Serbia. Now, among other things, why are you changing the law? It says – the obligor is believed to be doing business and when it is carried out within a business unit, it was written, and you say within a permanent business unit. Since it didn't say temporary before, it was meant to be permanent. Now what does this change mean to you? Just to write something, that's all we have to do here. The permanent business unit in these previous positions is considered an organisational part of the legal person...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13901	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13902	Time? Okay, there's time, it's a long night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13903	Thank you very much. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13904	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in order to work more efficiently, I am giving up the discussion under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13905	I thank my colleague Rističević. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, MP Marijan Risticevic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjšević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13906	Mr. Milicevic, good morning, welcome. Are you early? This law was passed in 2005 and has been changed several times, not to mention how many times it has been changed. It's just amazing that the business unit, a permanent business unit, a foreigner who works here and who is a taxpayer of value added tax is now opening up. It's just amazing that the business unit, a permanent business unit, a foreigner who works here and who is a taxpayer of value added tax is now opening up. Is it possible that only in 2016 has it concluded that this is the way to regulate, you have seven, eight members where you change something, and it already exists. Everything already exists. And just to draw your attention to the fact that in the adoption procedure there is also the law of Rasim Ljajic on the business seat of housing and services, something like that, about services. And it's said that it's roof law, there are certain conditions, but about the system is every company in Austria and the Serbian firm we're brothers. We can work there, you can do, we can do what you say, and you can do whatever you want here. Literally speaking. And I don't understand what you're trying to accomplish? Of course, later on, we'll cut off some provisions, you'll never get into the first provision with something, you drag it somewhere in the seventh, eighth term. But we learned one big thing today. For some goods, excise tax is paid at the border, and for some to be paid excisely later as the level of processing increases. And for those situations when excise is only paid at the border, there's a VAT.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13907	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. And together the MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13908	Well, speaking of this member, you're promoting a tax attorney here, but just to distract you. We also have a customs code, amendments and additions on the agenda. There you kill a tax collector, there you throw him out of the law. Are these bill proposals written under one roof? Is it possible that on the same day in two different laws you define that term, you insert it, and it exists long ago in the VAT Act, and there you delete it in Customs Law. There, look what's done. All that's fast is short. You can't see the system here, that's the biggest problem. And finish that story just now. So the excise rules know the possibility of excise duty being paid only at the border and that all those later on in traffic only pay VAT on what they have installed in the final product. There's something else here, there's no fight against battle here, there's no way to tax a giant in addition to coffee. There's something else going on here. Much more dangerous. Just so you know, in Serbia, it's an experience when something like this is done in this way with 126 votes, and believe me, I've had experience, I've warned about before and about the Law on Court Order and not telling you what I've warned you about and it's just as I warned you, remember here are going to do guns. You'll be guilty when the guns work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13909	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13910	Mr. Milicevic, member of 27th and Article 158th position 4 since you have returned and you have this rotating function, as in the Security Council, this one is being replaced by a generation at the chairman's post, I expect that you will soon invite Mrs. Radeta to take over the presidency, she knows this Rules of Procedure best, I think she has the longest experience. You were under obligation, and that's where you personally violated the Rules of Procedure, two hours ago, before you went to tell me, because you told the chairman that you and Mr. Smiljanic would have nodded, how much time left to discuss in the details of the entire time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13911	I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. We'll do it at a certain point, so you'll get the information, that part for the technical service. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day? Yeah. I thank you. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13912	The proposed amendment thinks that a better definition of the foreign person's obligation is required to introduce a tax attorney. We think it's a far better solution. What concerns the government's response is that you are calling for significant costs to the tax administration. Why don't we improve the tax administration when a foreign person is a taxpayer, but only when domestic legal persons are taxpayers. There we can sharpen the tax administration, there we can increase the number and capacity and all the resources, but when it comes to and with respect to them, the tax administration should not go beyond its capacity. I think that's questionable in this explanation. We believe that there is no difference in making this amendment a little bit stronger, because we have predicted that a foreign person who carries out taxed goods and services in the republic is obliged to appoint a tax attorney and to register for the obligation to pay VAT, regardless of the amount of that traffic in the previous 12 months. A little bit here to sharpen tax policy towards foreign companies because they have too many benefits and conveniences compared to domestic legal persons and entrepreneurs. It's just that Serbia's economic interest has to come first once. Obviously, Djelic, Dinkic and others in the previous period were in the last place, but I am personally sad and disappointed as well as with the various people who are now sitting in the government or with various people who are now sitting in the ruling majority of identical policies and practices.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13913	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13914	And according to this amendment, in order to work more efficiently, I will give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13915	Thank you. The 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Noško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13916	Mr. Milicevic, seven hours ago, I asked you how long until the debate is over, since we have 15 laws. You promised me you'd tell me very quickly, then the president of the National Assembly came, she didn't hear it and she didn't want to say it. I remind you that last week we also held a session of the National Assembly, where there were two times fewer laws in the united debate and in the debate in particular, and then two hours of reading were submitted to amendments that could not come to order, because a total of 10 hours had elapsed. Is this provision that was applied last time valid today or not? If it doesn't work, tell them we're going to make it till 9:00 in the morning. If so, tell us how many minutes we have left, because here's 12 hours we're working, no interruptions. As for the amendments, Mr Milicevic, now, if you read Article 12 and read this Article 4 which is completely amended by Article 12, you can hardly find any principleal difference in these texts. There are some minor differences to determine the place. What would be an important place when the Tax Administration is unique to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? Why would that be so important? Totally unnecessary. And so far you've been applying Article 12, and you haven't had any major problems with that. They were all bonds to pay VAT under those conditions if those conditions were met, it's no matter which place, he's a liability, so he's a liability. It is now going to be some kind of philosophizing to prove to the EU that we know it by the Brussels methods to complicate it so that no one can be made clear alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13917	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP of the people Saša Radulović, MP Marijan Rističević, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr. Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and the MPs of the DS Group together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13918	This is something that was a problem even in 2005 when the law was passed, and Mladjan Dinkic took a turn and refused to accept it. And here, it's not really this, but the principle is the same -- the transfer of the right to electricity, natural gas and energy. When we talked about some similar things that were subject to VAT, then we're told it must be, it's according to European standards. Now come again, slightly changed, but again there is Nedimovic, since he was also there when he was with Kostunica and Dinkic, now this sentence is changing and saying – reading, or other way of determining the situation in accordance with the law of electricity, natural gas and energy. Now it's not a transmission, now electricity is not a commodity, so property, now this turns out to be a favor. Well, it is, but we couldn't convince Dinkic either, and we can hardly convince you. There is one need here - I am in power, enough just to say the EU, it doesn't matter what I say. That's what happened with Dinkic, and that's what happened with his spiritual father, called Dusan Vujovic, after he made Dinkic. He even brought him a guitar from America, remember? That's how Dinkic started playing. Dusan Vujovic is a fantastic jazz guitarist, so you know. You don't know that? Who am I dealing with?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13919	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13920	It is certainly necessary to adopt this amendment, i.e. to delete this member of the law. It is normal that Dusan Vujovic continued to play where Mladjan Dinkic stopped because they were all in G17plus together. They were all in the G17plus together. It is difficult for me, and I agree with the apostle Arsic who says you are the first time in the Parliament, and you are new. It's very hard to figure out who was in which party more, who from which party moved into which party and who was here in the coalition. It's very complicated for me, and I can imagine how complicated it is for the citizens of Serbia. So you can say that you're all in the same... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13921	Mr. Nogo, do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 5? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: Yes. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13922	You interrupted me in half a sentence. Of course I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13923	You didn't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13924	I'm giving you one explanation. So it's not one-party anymore, it's the same interesting system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13925	The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Mr. Marko Milenković, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, mr. Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Sevrlic and the MPs of the DS Group together. The word has been given by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13926	In Article 23, which actually changes this Article 6, of the 21st point as far as this second position is concerned, you have only one change, and that's actually the essence of the change in this member. It's about a general VAT rate of 20% and a special one of 10%, taxing goods and services or importing goods, and then counting what. This is where the wood was written, and you have now added – including wooden briquettes and pellets. You didn't accept, of course, our amendment. We did not propose to delete this member because it does not need to reduce VAT on these products, but simply because it is our relationship to this law, so it applies to everything. But it's interesting why you won't accept this amendment. It is estimated, you say, that reducing the tax rate from 20 to 10% could lead to an increased interest in new investments in the production of wood briquettes and pellets, given that the Republic of Serbia has the necessary capacities to carry out this work. Is it up to the Republic of Serbia to have these capacities or to have our citizens, our businessmen who want to develop and expand this production, which, of course, would be good, would be good for consumers of these products, and would be good for those who would expand their production and who would eventually hire some new people who would work here?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13927	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13928	In fact, there is a perfectly good formulation in the explanation, and indeed the Republic of Serbia has great potential when it comes to the area. (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: Capacity. ) Capacity or potential. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: "Capacity or potential"? It's not the same. I'm really gonna be jealous, you've been criticizing me all day, and when I talk, you're talking to Minister Nedimovic. So our overall potential of the Republic of Serbia, or capacity, when renewable energy sources, are about 5.3 million equivalent oil. From what? So 1.6, or almost 30% was just biomass. We really stand at the point that this potential of biomass should be exploited far better and thus, to say, reduce the use of both gas and other import energy. We did have a serious debate in the government about this amendment and we did a serious analysis in three ministries, finance, agriculture and energy. We have decided to propose this to the National Assembly, believing that we really need to send a kind of call and economics to both our citizens and to invest more in the production of briquettes and pellets and use them more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13929	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Oleg Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Goran Cabradi. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13930	In this amendment, we have proposed what we propose for more than a year as a special amendment to the VAT Act, which is that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate than 10%. In this year and a half, for which, of course, the government and the ruling majority did not accept this initiative, we heard various arguments, by the government first of all. The first was that it took a lot of administration for such a change so the tax administration would now have to register what baby food is and could be abuses. The next argument was that even if it were adopted, it would not give effect and would not reduce the cost of baby food. The last in this explanation of the amendments that are not accepted, of course, is explained how to make food for babies, from which and how taxed it is, so how much milk is taxed 10%, how fruit, meat, vegetables are taxed with a sacred lower rate, and that, in fact, when you make food out of all these natural ingredients yourself, you paid only 10% to the state, not 20%. You only pay twenty percent when you buy that spoon. Instead of the government talking about the essence of this, that's what the Minister here said about this law in principle debate, that little time we had to talk about, that this law does not solve social issues, and this member, who has proposed further, explains that social issues are being resolved, because he says that the reduction in this rate to the briquettes will lead to new employment, and, of course, this leads to some social policy, in contrast.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13931	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13932	You know what, ladies and gentlemen, this government has not found that baby food is taxed at a general rate. It's been since 2005. Why are you attacking us so much now? Why didn't you do it while you were in power back then? We're socially irresponsible now, and you're socially responsible and if you didn't do it when you had the chance. It's a very strange way of thinking. But, okay. Now, let me also explain this contradiction over this tax reduction that will increase employment. Well, they will, because the goal is to move from mineral fuels to renewable energy sources. You know? I come from Pogorjevac it is one of the cities that has almost the cheapest heating in Serbia, if not the cheapest. But even today, when the low air pressure is low, you can't get out without coughing with the smoke resulting from the exploitation of lignite in individual boiler rooms, which you are Mr. Minister's fuel taxing with 10%, which pollutes the human environment. How is employment going to increase? Well, there'll be more peletarians, it'll be more interesting, more interesting fuel and cheaper for citizens, cleaner in the first place. It's a pure economic account. There's nothing more about math and space technology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13933	National MP Vesna Rakonjac, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13934	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, well, here, I will return to the value added tax on baby food. First, the baby category is very complicated, so there is a newborn, a child and a small child. If we were to do such a classification and what it takes for normal growth and children to develop, then we would be in trouble, because a child, a small child 12 months to 36 months of age, means up to three years of age, can completely from the nutritional point of view that it consumes food that is also for children of five, six, seven and eight years of age. So, we're going to get the kids in an unequal position, that's one thing. Secondly, if memory doesn't deceive me, this was the draft law of Bozidar Djelic, so it was withdrawn from the procedure, so Mladjan Dinkic adopted it, or this Assembly on his proposal, in 2005. And where were you in 2001 when you denied a child's allowance to mothers who gave birth to children regardless of the amount of income in the family? Then the mothers who gave birth to a third child in the worst years of 1990 to 2000 lost their permanent right because you remembered to introduce one-time assistance for the first, second and third children. So, you were nowhere at that time, and you didn't think about birth, and those women who were mothers of courage and who had children at that age. So that's what we need to remind you about. And as for the law itself on various products, meaning, such as baby equipment, they will be fully regulated by the social policy domain law, which is the Law on financial support for families with children. And what is very important for the citizens of the moment when the new law enters ceases to apply is this law that is now in force, which is the return of VAT. Therefore, our citizens do not need to worry, everything will be in order, and you will consider the actions that you have handled in the previous period and what mistakes have you made? That's when you were supposed to think about birth, VAT, and food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13935	Pursuant to Article 6 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, MP Marijan Rističević, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjšević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13936	I just want to, just for the sake of the citizens to say, since it's not too late anymore, but early, that I will refrain from a longer explanation of this amendment. I think this government is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13937	Thank you. On the 8th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13938	Well, this member regulates that a taxpayer or a bond does not have the right to deduct the previous tax based on the purchase of goods and imports of passenger cars, motorcycles, and now European thinking, they say there is a motorcycle with a side seat, a three-cycle, a four-cycle. And I think it's all a motorcycle. But here's why you found a reason to build this. However, I must again call on Zorana Mihajlovic and the Commissioner for Gender Equality. You had to translate these men into women's expressions and say that's understood. Last time, we wanted to die here at Zorana's, he said, it's standard, it's a must, without it you can't go to Brussels, and you're ignoring it now. Just one nice suggestion, in article 23, when you were upgrading this heating tree, you said, including wooden briquettes and pellets. But you have no word in that article, including when it comes to other goods. And as for the heating tree, which you say pays for VAT 10%, if you exclude several warehouses in Belgrade, no one else has paid you VAT. Cuts whoever gets where. Sells who gets where. You go, you order, you want a split, 20 centimeters. Well, you shake your head, take the ibaric highway, and ask after it costs a meter of wood. Well, ask the man if he counted the VAT. You know, when you're gonna catch him. Well, never. What do you write these things like this that have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13939	I thank my colleague Krasic. On the 9th amendment in the same text, the MPs Marijan Rističević, MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjšić, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenada Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) First of all, the People's MP Marijan Rističević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13940	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for the good morning, I will shorten my exposure to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13941	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13942	With this Article 9, you have actually suggested that VAT refund be abolished for the purchase of baby food and equipment. This is bad on the one hand, and the other is the problem. You announced, of course, that instead of this refund, which was very complicated, many parents didn't even take the funds because it took so much paper and so much time to spend and it's good that you realized that it was, I'm sorry, but total nonsense. But we don't understand anything else. Why don't you be bold, ever since the VAT law was passed, we Serbian radicals have been talking about it, and we're pushing for it, why don't you be bolder and say that baby food and equipment is getting rid of value added tax? Why don't you write it in the law once? And I guess that's the only right, only normal, story of forming some kind of advice, a population policy, etc., and something to start with, you're not going to do. You're still saying that our amendment that we've proposed erasing this article that you've abolished the right to this VAT refund, you're saying that accepting the amendment would make it impossible to improve the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask you, gentlemen ministers, does this mean that during this period, while we had this member that we wanted to delete, which is still part of the law, does this mean that you, in this way, have actually compromised the concept of, as you say, improving the legal system of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13943	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13944	Of course, this shows the absence of any clear plan to help and support families with children. Instead of thinking and coming to the Assembly with a proposal for a law on financial support with children and with other laws that will change the dramatic situation in Serbia, the government announces, fortunately, to say only to announce, its measure, the VAT return measure for baby food and baby equipment, which it introduced to big bells, with a big pomp in 2012. And then she didn't pay attention to the comments that it's complicated, that people won't be able to make it, that there's too much administration, all these arguments that are now repeating why it's being abolished. We could accept the suspension if we knew clearly what other measures were coming. But unfortunately, we only have one sentence in this law that repeats that this will take effect when a new law on financial support is passed with children, and the fate of this law is sad, because the government has been writing the bill for two years. The proposal still does not exist as a draft which is referred to a public debate, it is far from parliament, and we are closer to the elections and I fear we will not be waiting anytime soon, if we, of course, only listen to this government, this bill. The proposal for a law on financial support with children has not been amended since 2009, and the situation has deteriorated dramatically during that time. It wasn't good before, but it's dramaticly bad now. And instead of having some particular policy, we only have an announcement of this. Instead of having an upgrade, having new measures, more to do, we're just announcing -- we're going to cancel this, and we're going to give something, and what, how and how much, nobody knows today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13945	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13946	We believe that this amendment is scandalous and we believe that this amendment should be adopted, i.e. it should be deleted by this member of the law. Now I'll explain why. This is amazing that SNS ignores demographic problems in Serbia. Thirty-eight thousand of us are smaller, earlier it was 35, and now we've got this extra negative trend that 38,000 of us are less every year. It's the biggest problem this society has. I think there must be a consensus of all 250 MPs in this House if we care about what we care about, and I think we have a consensus together, that there is no more significant and greater problem that goes beyond both these MPs and these political parties and this current government and probably the next few governments. We must have a consensus that the demographic challenge and demographic winter that Serbia faces is the biggest problem we have. Look, the VAT refaction was so defined, it was complicated and we criticized it. But you're not offering an alternative. And what's the problem? In the same way as the current legal solution, you treat this problem and say it will be regulated by social policy measures. Tax policy should be differentiated from social policy. That's not, firstly, right. We need to improve the tax administration and introduce tax entities. But I don't want to get into that part. Social policy, gentlemen dear, is not something to improve demographic winter, but a population policy. We have to improve the position of all families through population policy measures, regardless of the social background. When these are measures of population policy, the state creates a responsible framework to start solving the problem of Serbia's demographic disaster. As a result, it's amazing that SNS has no alternative to come up with a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13947	Thank you. Replica, authorised SNS representative Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13948	Population policy is something else, but populist politics, that's what we've now had a chance to see. So it's always said how to eliminate tax refaction on added value for baby food, equipment, etc. But no one says when it's lifted. When a new law is passed. One more thing. Under the new law, all families with children will be helped by the state, regardless of their social and economic status. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: how do you know that? Well, I don't understand you. You tell the citizens - you no longer have the right to refaction, drop the bills. They're right. They're right as long as we don't pass the new law. That is what Article 14 paragraph 2 reads. So nothing's being lifted. The suspension was scheduled, but it was conditioned by a new law. And when the new law is in place, that's when this circumstance comes. But you need to read the whole law. It's the easiest thing to say – there's nothing wrong with the government, no politics, etc. Here says one MP – in 2009 the law was passed, now the situation is much more dramatic. In 2009, it was about the same as it is now, and the law was bad, and in 2012. It's the only thing we could offer the citizens of Serbia at that time. Let's go back to 2014, what happened to us. We can't act like we're gonna stick our heads in the sand and pretend like nothing's going on around us, so we can tell our story. I can't just take political points to accept that someone is trying to do harm to their people. It's populism, when you say - they've erased your law, it's no longer valid...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13949	Thank you. The word is Vesna Rakonjac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13950	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, let's start over. I didn't mean to interfere with my profession and explain to you step by step what children's food means and what category of groceries it belongs to. It falls into baby supplies. Take the rule on the health order of baby foods, and you will see under the category of baby food everything is classified. There's a possible abuse. This is why VAT cannot be abolished on these types of foods. On the other hand, if you care so much about population policy and children's health, why not promote breast-feeding as one of the best ways to feed children? In each of our offices, even though it's forbidden, you have ads from various foreign producers replacing human milk. Isn't that a violation? Why don't you think about it? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: Who is in power? Allow me, I did not enter your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13951	Please, talk about the amendment, don't have a dialogue. ) On the other hand, baby spoons and various other foods that are intended, I said, first to the newborn, the child and the young children... What are we gonna do with a kid who's 36 months old and one day? Can you explain it to me? It will not have the right to return VAT, or its parents. It's an unequal position. It's discrimination. You want an import pasta to deprive VAT just because it is categorized into child food. Think about it. Study some literature, then talk about something that's very complex. The third thing where abuse can come about is a different price for baby equipment. You've got baby equipment with decent prices, moderately decent and very rude prices. The VAT differs from the basic price of the product. Therefore, someone will raise, I don't know, buy a 1,500-euro cart and raise the VAT difference in that value. Someone more modest will buy a wheelchair than, say, 150 euros and raise a much smaller VAT. That's not what we want to happen. In 2012, when this law was changed, and it was the only possibility that as long as we went out to meet our parents, this belonged to the domain of social policy and child care and birth. If that were so important, the Nordic countries would have a huge natural growth rate, not a negative rate. Therefore, it is not only the cause of reduced birth. We can get high by morning, when this is a question. You have no argument, no argument. Read the rule of child food, and you'll see where children's food is being classified, what all falls into it, and what abuses can... Srjan Nogo throws. The law doesn't say, you expand your perspectives a little bit, so we can talk. Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stanković, joint MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13953	Article 10 creates preconditions to stop VAT refunding for the purchase of food and equipment for babies. Since we don't see a clear alternative in this bill of law and what policy other government thinks it's leading, we've suggested eradicating this member as well. I have to refer to the discussion that referred us to professional literature, that we now need to study some child products and things like that. It's nice, but I think it's just enough for this debate to look at the law and discuss what it says in the law and what the government wants to erase. The government wants to wipe out that one measure that spoke about the right to vomit VAT for a baby up to two years old. So, for a baby up to two years old, and that's what he says – in the first year of age to 40,000 dinars, in the second year of age for 30,000 dinars. Now, how are we going to do, you were talking here, the MP was talking about what we're going to do, how are we going to discriminate on a baby, that is, a child from the age of three and a day? Here's the law, it discriminates. She had to withdraw the border somewhere, and this law pulled that line. We don't know what we're changing. We have an announcement to delete this, and we have no announcement of what's to be done. We have a law-making announcement, an announcement that has been going on for two years, and there is no solution. I invite you, if you don't know how, take our proposal of the Financial Support Act to families with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13954	I thank my colleague Đurisic. According to the amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13955	Again, as with the previous amendment, this member of the law creates a precondition for abolishing VAT vomiting. Look, I was a little encouraged by Mr. Arsic's exposure because I read in the reasoning of this law that the legislator foresees to replace this measure with social policy measures, but Mr. Arsic, probably knowing something that I don't know, perhaps he saw this law that no one exists, honestly I am encouraged because I believe in this possibility, given that an important member of the ruling majority said it would be the measures of population policy, not social policy. I can agree with that and I can justify it. However, after him, from the same parliamentary group, the MP returns us to the social policy measures when he sets an example of a family's paying power. Look, we need to understand that there's no more important problem than Natalie. I agree. On Friday, Mr. Martinovic showed an enviable knowledge of the website of the Serbian Movement of the Dvera and our activities when he used our website and our campaign against the textbooks on the promotion of sexual education, so I suggest you see about the national policy of our movement site and our overall engagement on this issue, because simple family is a very important thing with us. So that's where you can come to look, to inform yourself how we propose and how in the world, to the whole world, to which you call very often, to fight for family values. You cannot put this as a measure of social policy, but as a measure of population policy. No matter what Sweden and Norway have these problems, we have to say that families are hard to live here and we have to make it easier for people who want to have children and who have children, but that can't be the only measure and we can't ignore that measure. There's no cost for the most intelligent politics, given the problems he's having. Let's see how we all do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13956	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13957	Okay, a few amendments already exist where one topic is spread. I have to distract you. The value added tax is something not human. It's a system that has no humanity. You have to know that, because you're taxing consumption. The value added tax is not paid for air and for certain locations where you walk. Industrial products, agricultural food products, all in the VAT system. I think it's a good solution that in these changes there are still some benefits, the possibility of vomiting, which is not typical of the VAT system. That's what you have to say. If this transitional situation ends by going back to the classic VAT system, then there must be an alternative, whether in this social policy or, most correctly, social care about children, where this cost is being replaced and it gives a lot more, much more. I think in that sense we should move when we talk about VAT. The value added tax is an inhumane system. Everyone's in the chain of consumption tax bonds. And a dot. There are two feet. Dot. I repeat, you can breathe freely and not pay VAT and some meadows to walk that aren't covered. The second is all covered by the VAT system. The VAT is paid on everything. It's a good thing you're not breaking some system where you gave the right to vomit...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13958	The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13959	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, with associates, respected colleagues, to return to the presentation of my esteemed colleague, is a popular policy which is a priority of our government. Let's take it one step at a time, I mean in the right direction. The law, which follows, on the financial support of the family with children, belongs both to the population and to the social policy of a state. You have to understand that. So that's first and foremost. Secondly, I don't know how else for you to explain that everything stays the same until the new law is passed. Your representatives are sitting on the Committee I run, it's the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. This law will certainly come into order and will first go to the Committee. So let them read it well, put their remarks on, and then we'll talk about something that's coming to us. Now, this I think was the best solution in 2012 when we went out to meet families that plan children, and this is the second step that I think is even better. So you're giving us time to do something good for our families together. But when it comes to population policy, what about those young people who don't realize marriages, so the birth limit shifted from 22 to 30 to 40 in women and men. What happens to those lost generations and where are their children now supposed to be in first, second, third or fourth grade primary school? This is unfortunately the result of a devastating policy that has been conducted since 1985. In 1986 until 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13960	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13961	For more effective work, ladies and gentlemen, I will give up the interpretation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13962	Thank you. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic and together the National Assembly Club DS. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13963	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's another reason why we think that the announcement of a VAT refund to buy food and equipment for babies is as bad as it's supposed to be, and why we're against it. Article 12 states that the right to refund VAT obtained until the date of application of the Financial Support Act with children, which regulates the one-time payment of money in the name of the purchase of baby equipment, can be achieved etc. But you are announcing the Financial Support Act with children, which provides for a one-time payment in the name of buying only baby equipment, and this refund now in force in the law is a VAT refund for purchased food and baby equipment. So, you're already removing this whole part of the cost that could be paid for baby food VAT and leaving only baby equipment and then you'll probably make some calculation and suffer, but only for baby equipment, and not for baby food and instead of accepting the amendment to reduce the rate of baby food tax, so let's make the tax administration's effort and define what it is by what rule it is, no, the tax administration won't be burdened with anything. We'll see later in the Tax Administration Act how the IRS thinks it's working. You're here to announce the abolition of VAT vomit for baby food and that's what this law says. Read it carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13964	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has an amendment bearer, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13965	Well, the same debate we're having about the last three amendments. Again, I'd like to commend, I think we've brought our views closer to the oral presentation of the representative of the SNS who last spoke. However, you must understand that we react on the basis of what it says and when we read the reasoning of the law, when we read your intentions, we have reason to worry. The previous speaker quoted what you were planning. You're planning a one-time payment of money under that law. Please, I'm telling you what the law says and in reason, and that's why we're worried, and at this point we don't have the proposal for a bill, but we just have to call for social policy measures, and we think it's bad, but if you're ready for one dialogue and for one constructive debate, because I think that this issue goes beyond the question of our political differences and the difference that a party belongs to, I can welcome it, but it's on you that initiative because you're government and you're the ruling majority. It's not up to us. On our side, you have your hand out, but based on what we can read, we have cause for concern. You have opened some topics that must also be the future law on supporting the family, I think we need it first, to open up and why the birth is delayed and why the insufficient number of women are breast-feeding and why we have a large number of divorces, i.e. why marriage lasts only 13.5 years on average in Serbia and the enormous statistical problems affecting our families. I will provide you with the quality index of family life done by Luke Volante, the man who gave the greeting speech when the SNS received observer status in the European People's Party a few years ago. That man made a quality index of family life in 44 countries. We're here at the beginning. These are serious problems and you're carrying them. For five years you have ruled Serbia, you are responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13966	According to the amendment, the People's Parliament has Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13967	I don't really know how to explain to you that parents won't be damaged. Just before I told you – read it all the way, that means – to buy baby equipment, buy, not just throw up VAT, but to buy baby equipment, set. It's a lot more than puking VAT. That's one thing. First that. Secondly, the Law on financial support for the family with children plans certain funds that families with children will receive in continuity. Therefore, there is also compensation for children’s food and all that is needed for growth, the development of normal children of school, preschool, and continues to grow to their adulthood. You have to understand that. We'll see what kind of law it'll be. When we get the law, then suggest amendments to what you don't like, and then we'll talk about it. This is how we can talk until tomorrow. It is important that parents at this point will not be damaged as in 2001 all mothers with a born third, fourth and fifth children were damaged because their child's allowance was permanently abolished for single aid. That's when you didn't think to complain. That's when you didn't think to complain and worry so much. It's been so smooth. Why the hypocrisy now? I was just listening to you very carefully. What's most important is that this is better than what it was when it wasn't puking VAT. This is going to be better than this with this complicated administration. We should promote breastfeeding as one of the best ways to feed children, not promote various substitutes and milk formulas. We need to teach our mothers to make homemade spoons at home. That's how babies feed themselves most properly, not instantly, so we can worry about whether they have pesticides or no pesticides. And speaking of that, there are some standards for the amount of pesticides in raw materials, and the second is a much stricter norm in children's food, and there were gaps that we had in the previous period. And we can't accuse anyone. They've all done things by the book. So, one is criteria for the amount of pesticides in fruit and vegetables for human consumption, and the other, much stricter, are in children's food. That man couldn't dream of having to take supplies with much lower value. Thus, these are dangers that young parents and young mothers are lurking in. We need to promote a healthy, proper diet, not give kids instant food. We need to be mothers and prepare it in our household, to be ennobled with love and all that is necessary for a child. That's how we'll develop positive eating habits. That's how we avoid obesity. This will teach children to consume fruit, not fruit juices, vegetables, not instant spoons. But they need to accept the mothers of the welders and prepare that child's food. Now, that's what we need to promote at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13968	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo. You have a minute and 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13969	In 2001, I was in the first year of law school. I don't know where you were when it happened and when the maternity leave ended? It's a question first of all for you, not for me. Next, everything you said doesn't say anything. So it doesn't say anything in this proposal. How do I know what's in your head? I'm really not psychic. I only speak based on what it says, based on what you've analoguely delivered to us. If there's a digital in your heads somewhere, I don't know. But I'm speaking on the basis of documentation, based on the law, and based on your reasons. Please understand that. I agree with what you're saying, but the first step is that people in Serbia don't have to survive. They don't have to survive, and we have to significantly help all the families in Serbia, especially those who have small children and who want to have small children. It's very hard to live here. And many mothers would devote much more time to their children, and they should devote, they are good women and they fight for children, but you know what conditions they work on, if they have a job at all – in slave conditions. Don't pretend to be naive. This is the women who work in the Assembly, imagine how they work, 20 hours straight, when they're going home? What don't you think about that? How can we trust this government when it promotes a gay parade and not promote family values?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13970	According to the amendment, the word has been sent by the People's Parliament of Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13971	In my opinion, the least you can do is honor me. In 2001, I had a third child and I am one of those mothers who lost her third child allowance. So in the '90s, which were crazy years, I was born first, second and 2001. In all that time, I finished college, specialization and tight specialization. So, mother, if she wants to, she can. So the least you can do for me is honor it. What's in our heads is what we present. That's why we tell you, trust. And what it says, read it all the way. It's always been hard living in Serbia. In Serbia, families have always lived hard. Therefore, it writes loud and clear – no compensation will be abolished or VAT refund will be recovered until the new law enters into force. Take it already. So, it's been hard living in Serbia, living hard today, but it'll live better with the Serbian Progressive Party and this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13972	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm looking at a miraculous alchemy, part of the opposition, not this part that's loud, and it's about to reduce the budget, but to increase payments, to issue rights, but without obligation. That miraculous alchemy in these early morning hours prompted me to say that this part of the opposition, every honor of this creative work, but this created part, the outside part of the opposition, was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13974	Thank you. Article 12 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 13. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MP Marijan Risticevic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13975	In Article 13, you are talking about Article 38, where you replace 2017. So, it's a deadline extension again. But it's interesting here for what reason. I said that too many hours that you act like you're playing the bill or the way little Perica imagines government. You are talking here about a pattern which, based on a sublegal act, is a special form of VAT calculation examination, a PO VAT form and what it contains, is not important, mainly, to seek an extension of a year of this provision, because you want, as you say, to postpone the start of the examination, i.e. to extend the period for the preparation of VAT bounds and to review the content of the form within that period. So you brought a sublaw form, and now you're putting that pattern in the mood to practice a little bit, to see, we don't really understand what? What's to be reconsidered? I guess you made sure that the sublaw act was in accordance with the law first, and then from that sublegal act to come a form that's in line again, and what do you have to check for another year, to question the content of the form? Did you bring that form or bring it to you, and now you question it? If you brought that form, I guess you know, and you should have known before you put it into circulation, is that good or not good?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13976	Thank you. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13977	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will insist until the last amendment, at least in the short version, try to explain it, unlike these, Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Zivkovic, my fellow farmer, who seems to have a lot of work to do and does not defend his amendments, George Soros must have some fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13978	Thank you. To Article 13. The amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13979	In Article 14, you are talking about the application of this law, i.e. certain provisions of this law. I should immediately move to this second position where you said that the provisions of Article 9 of this Act, which is VAT on baby equipment and food, will apply from the date of the application of the law on financial support to the family with children who are being arranged for one-off payment, etc. This is truly amazing that you write in law that some provision will apply to the application of a law that has not yet been seen by the National Assembly. We don't know if it's the government. My people, what are you doing? What do you do to write that will apply until when? Nor do you know whether this law will be called this, what it will contain, whether it will ever be brought. I can't believe you're still saying that you don't accept our amendment because this law sets optimal deadlines. What's optimal and what's even a deadline if you say this is going to apply to something that doesn't exist at all. You're still asking us to trust you. To believe the word that you're going to pass some law. Whenever someone from the Government of Alexander Vukic says – you should trust us, I remember Vucic's statements that no one will reduce pensioners. He was telling the whole campaign how he got his hands on the first job he had was taking part of his pension. Such a government that we believe will eventually pass the law, but legally...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13980	Time. The word has been submitted to the amendment by MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13981	You see, that's how much trust you mentioned. You should trust the ruling majority. We have heard this from the mouth of the ruling majority MPs, and apparently from this proposal by a member of the law that this member will apply until we pass a new law. See, that's exactly what doesn't give you confidence. The law will be applied until some law is passed that knows when to pass, because it hasn't passed the government yet and we don't know the contents of that law, but we have to believe it'll be a good law. It's really amazing. How can we trust each other? Based on facts or on what you said in the congregation, we cannot take you seriously, let alone trust. Second, we can only stick to what's written here, and here none of what you say is written. It says one-time payout, that's the only thing. I have to stick to what's written in the very explanation of this law. I wish I had something black on paper, because you understand, the written thing is what's relevant. You haven't adopted it in government yet, nor have we seen what it looks like in public, nor has it entered the Assembly. How can we talk about the law then? You call yourself believe the SNS, how can we believe it? I would like and repeat this goes beyond the Deverie and this assembly of Parliament and myself personally and all of us here personally and in this government itself, it is above politics and beyond our mutual conflicts. But everything you do is worrying. You know, the measures to help the family are far and wide covered. Martinovic follows our website, he can talk about it. Here, we have real estate estimates, so banks throw people out, families out of homes. We're passing the law to ease the banks and there's family and family policy, you know. You have no idea what family means.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13982	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13983	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I think it is very important to point out one thing. That the financial support law was sent to the government in the previous assembly and was returned because of the elections. It's simply such a procedure that every time elections are held, all the laws that are in the procedure come back. Just to finish, it's very important, a few dozen times during the debate it was said that the law was missing. The law should be back in procedure in the first half of 2017. He's not here today, but he was said to be gone. He's not in the process right now, but he was in the process. Another important thing. If the instruments relating to one-time support do not continue to be in that law, it should fully implement this existing formulation until the moment it is adopted. If there is no one-time assistance, the same situation as it has been in the past few years continues and there is absolutely no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13984	I thank the ministers. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13985	One sentence only. Whether you believe us or not, that's your business. Serbian citizens trust the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. They showed that in the election, ten percent more than you. Therefore, we trust the people, the people, and we get along fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13986	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13987	We've been asking for the erasure of attitude 2 which has been most talked about so far exactly what is completely unnecessary in our opinion, because it says the same thing as Article 12. And that's, we've heard more than once here, how the refunding of the right to return VAT on food and baby equipment will be possible until the new law is passed. Then we even listen to the comments that here we don't know what it says in that law, it says there one way or another. We don't know because that law wasn't in the Assembly here of Minister Nedimovic. I don't know where you got the information, because you weren't in the Minister's last meeting, you weren't even an MP, that law didn't come here. Maybe the government sent him on the third, sixth, and I don't know which March before the assembly was disbanded. Maybe at that moment, no one could see for sure. But if the law was written, I think you owe us an explanation of the 11th of August when this government was formed, by this time on December 28th at four o'clock in the morning, what prevented you from having the same law that the government has already passed, and all of this means four and a half months, what prevented you from sending it to parliament? Along with this law here, so we can conduct some competent discussion, maybe vote for that law. We've been asking here for four months to pass the law and the government says she didn't say what you said. She said -- now we're going to form a new working group, and we're going to do a new law again. I have an answer from the Ministry, from Minister Vulin. I have an answer and it's true, and what you're saying is not true. What was your problem if there was a law, in that form, to suggest it again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13988	Time. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13989	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, families with children deserve the protection of the state to protect them as citizens protect their country and should protect it. These tax laws, the Excise Act, serve to ensure that even our oldest ones most often mentioned here have the right to a dignified age. They deserve this. They deserve bigger pensions, but to be achieved by greater production and generation solidarity in this larger production. Pensions are made. Bigger pensions we all have to make together. Our oldest did not deserve to receive pensions according to the recipe of little Pernar from Cačka, with a stamped money that would send into the ranks for oil, flour, milk and which would reduce pensions to two euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13990	Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Milan Ševarlić, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13991	Well, yes, this is a member who says the law enters into force on 1 January 2017. Given all these amendments that we have submitted to the previous members, this is completely logical. Why? Because we don't think there was any reason to change this law, especially in the way you suggested. Let me just draw your attention to one detail. You are obviously doing this all by order from the EU, because some chapters are being opened there, so you are being warned by these chapters what needs to be done. Then you go uncritically into these changes, and here when there comes some serious argument as to why something is done or not to be done, we have around that answer - the EU directive, the integration process and something that looks like it. I just have to draw your attention, you wrote a sentence in the light of this bill where there is, you say, a danger of double taxation. The danger of double taxation or avoidance of double taxation exists only when it comes to corporate income tax and possibly with property tax. There is no such category for VAT. So that term doesn't exist. Because if it were to happen that for the same service in two places, VAT is paid, then there is vomiting in the dominant territory. But you took advantage of that flossula, counting that people don't know what it's all about, to get through this...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13992	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Time. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to the 15th amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and not voted on, Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. By written amendments to Article 26, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, and Mr Marko Milenkovic were withdrawn. You've received reports from the board. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić, together with the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševlić, together with the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13993	This introductory article is very important, because it shows architecture why this changes. This is changing again because of something, and I have to distract you, and when these rules were passed, I was then warning the legislator at that time what kind of problems would be if double tax authorities were created and all the consequences could be. And then they wouldn't listen to me, and I know that today you don't listen to me, but let me just draw your attention to you from the Ministry who knows something. This category you use in law, which is the original public income of the local self-government unit, does not exist. Why isn't there? Because you don't know there's a law on funding local self-government. He says so - the original income. Remember, all you're doing is contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The original income is something belonging to the local self-government unit. She's free and to determine, she's free to charge. It can't be a second-degree body of some commission at the Ministry of Finance. Enter what is local self-government and what is guaranteed. That's what I was saying to that Dinkic guy, he didn't get it, he didn't want to hear it. With this change, where the second-degree procedure from the district units you're returning allegedly to the finance ministry, you'll do even more damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13994	Thank you, colleague Krasic. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, joint MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, joint MPs of the DS Parliament Group and MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic, together. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13995	In fact, it is a Article 3 that is amended by Article 2 which we wanted to delete, and Article 3 says that, if this law is not otherwise prescribed, the tax procedure is carried out in accordance with the principles and in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure, or in accordance with the provisions of the law governing inspection supervision. We, and if we hadn't thought that it was necessary to propose to delete all the proposed members, we would certainly suggest that this article be deleted, because there is no need and I once debated here already on the subtle application of the General Administrative Procedure Act and it is simply unnecessary to say in another law that these provisions will be applied which, of course, are binding. You do not accept our amendment, because you say that the above-mentioned amendment is in line with the Inspectorate Control Act, which began to apply on 30 April 2016. If this is really why you're looking for these changes, then the question we've already asked when some other bill proposals were at stake – what have you been doing since 30 April 2016? Was there a legal vacuum in that period? Could the competent state authority have done anything during that period? So if this isn't what I'm asking if it is, then this is unnecessary. If you insist on this, then it means that the state was in trouble that half a year couldn't function certain services, because it wasn't like this Article 3 you're doing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13996	Thank you, colleague Radeta. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, joint MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group, joint MPs of the DS Parliament Group, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and MP Marijan Rističevic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13997	I barely found it, looking at this Article 11 that is changing to Article 3, what has been changed, when in the first row -- the tax administration in the context of the state administration's affairs is leading first degree, and then you crossed out - and the second-degree tax procedure. That's the essence of this member's change. We thought and talked and in principle debate about not having to, even if we hadn't thought, I repeat again, we don't need this law. You're saying that our amendment could not be accepted because, instead of the second-degree tax authority so far educated in the tax administration, that second-degree jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the second-degree body is prescribed by the Ministry of Finance as an independent resolution body in the second-degree tax procedure. I'm sorry, who guarantees and whom the Ministry of Finance is independent of, and whom the IRS was addicted to. And again, the question is whether you suffered from doing something illegal, because what you're explaining right now shows that you didn't actually work in accordance with the law, that you didn't have an independent organ that worked as a second-degree organ. Then we have to wonder how it is possible that Vujovic is today a minister, if you are now discovering that something that is not in accordance with the law has been done under the Ministry and the Tax Administration. If I'm wrong about what I said, then the amendment of this law and this member is absolutely unnecessary and excessive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13998	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u13999	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since it's too late, you'd better say it's early, I'll make my contribution and shorten this explanation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14000	Thank you. The word has been submitted to the amendment by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14001	Indeed, the question is raised throughout the law. So, as a second-degree body, it's not the tax administration anymore, it's the Ministry of Finance. I say, it's very interesting, says the Ministry of Finance as an independent organ, a second-degree organ. As far as possible, when the tax administration is a management body within the Ministry of Finance. It's very debateable and interesting. So what's the legal change for? I don't see that in any way anyone's additionally protected right, because the second-degree body of the Ministry of Finance is. It could've stayed the way it's been so far, but in the worst case scenario, why wouldn't all the government's administrative acts be in the hands of the court. But I think the tax administration here as a previous solution was better. But, well, that's your choice. Perhaps the EU is really so competent for the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14002	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when someone says it's the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, everyone thinks it's a tax-regulating law. No, this is a simple administrative law that regulates tax collection. Nothing more. Do you... (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: To whom do you explain it? Yes. I'm explaining because I've heard some things that I don't really understand, so I want to get something straight. Is the tax administration supposed to settle in a second degree against the solutions of its organisational units? I don't think so. Because the organisational units are working based on the position and opinion of the Republic tax administration. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: Since when do you think so? Why wouldn't the Ministry do that? And in many others, in many other administrative procedures, many other ministries do so. This isn't hot water. Intruding into the independence and independence of local self-government, a very debateable issue. There are original incomes. I agree. The level and manner of taxation by units of local self-government are laid down by the Law on the financing of local self-government, but in order for local self-government to achieve this, it must apply the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Now imagine, let's say, a local self-government is a different interpretation of the tax procedure and the tax administration than the neighboring local self-government. Yes, it is the unity of legal regulations and legal acts in the Republic of Serbia. It is not under the law of enforcement, and the same law applies to republican authorities, i.e. to the collection of republican taxes and local taxes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Only local self-governments have the freedom to set tax rates within the framework of the laws laid down by the Republic, or the level of tax to be charged. Well, well, so someone wants, here, I'm going to give a classic example because of the lack of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. If a legal entity had been subject to privatisation, that prior to privatisation was a law that regulated the integration of the labour force, it appeared to me, in 2002, 2003, that the company reported in time the debt it has according to the pension fund and the Health Protection Fund, that the Republic had paid out of the fund's budget, but the tax administration did not control that party in the fund's account and charged the same company as if it owed him a tax. That's what it looks like when bureaucracy catches and won't back down, and if essentially that company has settled through the budget of the Republic of Serbia its commitment to the PIO fund. These are the problems that we face and which are bureaucratic and which are why this law needs to be changed. Thank you. On the 4th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs DS and MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic, together submitted. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Mr Marinkovic, it is regrettable that at this time we are not discussing such a very important law, because these people to whom this member and the Tax Procedure and Administration Act are concerned at this point I suppose they are not awake. Since this member regulates, which I'm talking about, regulates when the tax liability ends, I'm going to talk about entrepreneurial action and to understand it, I'm going to speak from my own personal example. Namely, I am a four-year entrepreneur, as owner of a marketing and consulting agency and I am a taxpayer and a solution to the Ministry of Finance, is ultimately taxing that my activity. Believe me, since I'm familiar with the Ministry lady we've had this kind of communication with before, you can't talk, you can't talk, not just the case with me, but many of my colleagues who deal with similar activity that we haven't received a final tax solution since the moment we registered our activity. So, since 2012, we have been paying our tax obligations in advance, which you will admit is neither pleasant nor pleasant. Now I'm in a situation like many other people, some for other reasons. I do not want to be in such a conflict of interest. My activity is currently to say frozen but at this point I don't know who or who my accountant is, the remaining potential obligation that is not fully respected. That is why I cannot accuse tax inspectors who are very safe and responsible in the tax administration, or in a branch in Kragujevac, which is usually the central part of many other cities, because they are simply waiting for them from Belgrade to be given a complete account and that they can make final solutions. So that's one problem that you should take seriously because people just have a lot of problems in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14005	For the same reason because it's too early, I'm going to shorten the explanation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14006	Thank you. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14007	I thank the chairman. We actually just wanted to simplify things a little bit. Therefore, in the event of the termination of the tax liability referred to in Article 23(1), the tax administration should not make any specific solution to the termination of the tax liability. When the tax liability ceases to pay taxes, the decision to terminate the tax liability is inequitable and inefficient, too high. It is a matter of introducing unnecessary steps in the tax procedure, i.e. additional unnecessary burden on workers of the tax administration, we also spend their valuable time and create unnecessary costs for the use of materials and delivery of these solutions. As far as the law itself is concerned, since we have Vujovic in the background, I am not surprised that in the explanation of the law, as partners, so to speak, among other things, whose initiative is such a law, we can read the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, in fact Marko Cadež, the American Chamber of Commerce, the British-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the German-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce. I think she could have made this list a lot wider, and that would have made the law very good. After all, Minister Nedimovic would certainly have something more to say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14008	Thank you. On the 5th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14009	The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, alterations and additions, and it is a great shame that we are not discussing this at some normal time to be heard by some people, because people will not read the stenograms, they will only see what you bring to them at the end of the law. But why am I stressing this now? I will return only to our claim that this Article 3 should not have been changed either, because it cannot be considered that an authority in the Ministry of Finance is independent, and yet some authority within the tax administration is dependent. But what was interesting to me here is that one MP says -22. The path changes this law, the 22nd time, at least seven or eight times since the MP is part of the ruling coalition and is baffled tonight – how can you, yet speaking to lawyers, which he is not, is surprised that we do not understand what it says here and how we can think that it is normal for the tax administration to be also a second-degree tax authority. Well, is it possible that 22 times past him passed this law where this was written and only now he thought of it so dramatically, the end of the world if this doesn't change? Lutito, someone thinks the Ministry of Finance isn't independent. Of course it's not independent, as is not the second-degree body that was at the Ministry of Revenue and is not normal to be independent, it has to depend primarily on the law. One who heads the organs must also be dependent on the law, part of the government, must respect the principles and policies of the government, and the demagogue stories of some independent Martians, tie it up more to the cat on the tail, because it simply doesn't exist in life and never will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14010	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14011	For the same reason as before, I will shorten the explanation of this amendment, so that we may finish as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14012	Thank you. On the 6th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14013	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to draw your attention to page 5's argument as to this - Article 216. The General Administrative Procedure Act, "The Official Journal of the SRJ", No. 33/97 and 31/01, and "Emergency Officer of the Republic of Serbia", No. 30/10 closed brackets, has been explicitly prescribed that no authority within the authority in the administrative matter can be determined in the first degree for resolution. So, the regulation that was last amended in 2010 obliges you to in 2016, and in 2016 is the new General Administrative Procedure Act which does not even treat this issue, does not even define what a second-degree administrative body is. But you see what you have called upon, literally speaking to a regulation that no longer exists, which is not applicable. You did not make a change when that regulation was applied and when it was in force. That's why I say that some will never understand this operation, absolutely never. Well, that's the basis for this dance at 4:15 in the morning. Now, let's get to this Article 29. In Section 9, you express fear of identity theft at the APR, temporarily taken away by the FIB, and returned to the FIB. Wait, is it possible that this manipulation of the PIB has never been the subject of regulation? That's enough. I told you everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14014	Thank you. Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stanković, joint MPs of the DS, National MP Veroljub Stevanović, MP of the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Cabraja, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14015	I'm talking about a 55th member who's changing. I say it's like, because nothing really changes. In the last position of this Member, it is said that if the procedure for adopting the rulings referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article determines that the data from the tax application of business books and records do not correspond to the real situation, the tax ruling on tax determination will be made on the basis of the tax assessment, the assessment of the tax base. But, exceptionally, this is now the change, a tax-determining solution, can be made by the tax administration by direct decision when the basis for tax-determining is an insight into the data contained in the records of the competent authorities without prior declaration by the debtors of the facts that are relevant to the decision-making. Now, the prize question, since it is possible that a tax-determining solution can be made by direct decision, who is the direct decision-maker? Of course, I know it's not a good term, but I'm deliberately Caricating. Who is this force of heaven that will do this, is it from the ministry that is independent, is it from the tax administration, which is independent? A colleague here thinks she's addicted. It's just, we can't find out who's going to be responsible for at least the last five years, and it's obviously been done in a much longer way, with authorities within the tax administration that haven't been independent, and how is it possible that it hasn't been seen this many years? How is it possible at least now that the current finance minister does not resign when one of the MPs from the ruling coalition draws attention that he actually worked illegally?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14016	The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14017	This member is an outstanding member and shows the true face of this government, and how it systematically introduces legal uncertainty into Serbia's legal system, instead of working backwards. What's this about? You have one article 55, four attitudes that talk about how tax settlement is made and then it is now proposed to introduce a new attitude that starts with the word – exceptional. ‘Extremely, a tax determination solution, the tax administration may make a direct decision, where the basis for determining the tax is to take into account the data contained in the records of the competent authorities without prior notification by the obligor of the facts which are relevant for the decision’. So, the government is building a system that is infallible against citizens, taxpayers who are the only one in the interest of the state, or government in order to fill the budget. So, extremely, we don't know in what exceptional cases a tax solution can be made without the obligor stating, as the government itself says here, the facts that are relevant to the decision-making. A total of one disaster and an explanation for not accepting our amendment, which the Government explains why it is making such a solution in order to comply with this law on administrative procedure that it says - cannot, without a previous statement, make a solution unless it is regulated by law. The door opens here so that, without the taxpayer's statement, a tax settlement can be made in exceptional cases which, unfortunately, will become a rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14018	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14019	I'm joining the presentations of my colleagues from the opposition. There's really no clear and normal reason to bring this up unless there's an evil intention. This is really a very, very dangerous thing, and I really don't see that one such measure, one such attitude you add, and that you didn't prescribe any closer when and under what circumstances this possibility arises. Give some closer destinations, because this introduces a serious right of uncertainty and the possibility of arbitration. So, the serious possibility of arbitration is that, by its own free will, the tax administration makes a solution without allowing the taxpayer to make a statement about these facts. That's the opposite of Article 6. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which allows for insight into the facts. And now you're bringing this in, and I'm in the middle of the same law. I don't see any reason why there's such a provision and I'm just trying to imagine a brain that could come up with one of these provisions. Indeed, it is only to the detriment of the Serbian citizens and to the possibility that in some illegal and illegal way they should enter the citizens' pocket. I'm sure of who this won't apply to. I'm sure you'll never be able to apply this to any foreign face, you can't use it against any party tycoon. A common people remain and some unprotected businessmen remain. I really appeal to common sense, or simply bring some of the closer points that you would very restrictively limit this norm or fully withdraw this norm. You'd better pull it all the way back. It is not without reason that the whole opposition has reasoned that one such member should be deleted. Because there's no healthy excuse except for an evil intention. Indeed, an evil intention to bring a solution to someone without a statement is simply to prevent them from stating the facts. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14020	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14021	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I expect this sports group of mine to come to the morning exercise, and I'll shorten the argument a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14022	Thank you. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković, MP of the people Saša Radulović and MP Marijan Rističević. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14023	It's actually about Article 74. I asked to change again to see what you were changing, when that, uh-huh. You are referring to the decision-making procedure, i.e. the means of ensuring the collection of taxes in this previous position 1. Among other things, the guarantee of another person who owns a property that has no burden, so it stood, and you have now deleted, on which there is no burden, and then the means of the security to pay the tax is the guarantee of another person who owns the property. How could it have bothered you - on which there is no burden? Well, I guess that's the precision of how it's going to be a guaranteed immovableity that already has a burden. What can immovableity afford to provide? And then you further explain that you cannot accept the amendment for the reason why the proposed amendment is made necessary to specify the provisions of the Tax Administration Act, but in order to implement it with as little interpretation as possible and thus contribute to the faster implementation of the tax procedure. What does that mean with as little interpretation as possible? I guess lawyers use laws and interpret laws, and why is it a problem to interpret the law? Now you've made a serious problem and really, here as a lawyer, I wonder how to interpret this. What does it mean for you to say that the means of security is no longer property on which there is no burden, but any property? So somewhere you just went to some changes, I guess the more serious the law would seem to you, and then you're in some members, and this isn't the first that I've noticed something like this, it's just, let's just, let's just make it more members, make it look more serious, and the law isn't as serious as the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14024	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's early, I will also shorten the reasoning of this amendment here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14026	Thank you. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14027	Mr. Chairman, I will commend, let's say, this member. Why? Because this is the first time since 2002 that we have this formulation. It has never happened in Serbia's tax system before. It is now the first time, thanks to Dusan Vujovic and we in Article 87a of Serbia's history, from St. Sava, we get the next position – a solution to the tax administration to establish a temporary measure under Article 2 of this article at the same time is being delivered to the taxpayer and to the organisation responsible for forced payment, which is becoming executive. Here, for the first time, Serbia has learned that the temporary measure is executive. That's epic. The next position, also thanks to Dusan Vujovic – the organisation responsible for forced payment is also provided with an executive solution to the tax administration on the mandatory collection of taxes and subsequent taxes from taxpayers' money. If this hadn't been installed now, it would never have been possible to remove money from Serbia and collect taxes. There, I simply regret that we have submitted this amendment. I don't want to pull it. May it remain for history recorded that Dusan Vujovic has done something epochal. For the first time, we learned how to make this forced tax payment, through which the authorities and on what basis. When you meet Vujovic, if he has not resigned yet, tell him that this direct decision by the tax authority does not exist as a term, nor in the General Administrative Procedure Act, nor in those specificities that are specific to the tax procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14028	Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJjiljana Mihajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14029	Article 10, we said, we did. Wait a minute, it refers to Article 88, yes, it does refer to Article 88. And exactly what I was saying about that article 7 is saying -- after the delivery of the solution from Article 87, it doesn't matter, this tax payer law is not allowed to have the items of forced payment on which the deposit is established. Then what did you just, two members before this, say it didn't matter whether immovableity had a mortgage or not? A minor next to each other, they're collapsing you. Did you even take care of these things? Actually, obviously you're not. You cannot say that you accept the amendment for the reason why the proposed amendment is made necessary to specify the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in order to implement its application with as little interpretation as possible. Why don't you want the laws to be interpreted? We advocate, and I, as a lawyer above all, truly, for precise, concise legal provisions, but every law exists to be interpreted. Every legal provision exists to be interpreted. Here, I am now interpreting article 88 over that article I was just talking about, Article 74, where you said you were erasing the property that has a burden, and here you are saying there can't be an obligation if there is a mortgage, and say hello to Vujovic and tell him that the mortgage is actually a burden. Maybe he doesn't know that mortgages and loads are the same, so he wrote one in article 74, the other in article 88. Let him ask the lawyers at the ministry, there must be those who used to do it well, who really graduated from colleges, not those you brought in with bought diplomas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14030	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14031	I'll ask you another time. How to touch a diploma, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14032	On the 11th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivović and MP Saša Radulović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14033	Now, if it wasn't for these changes to this law, no one in Serbia would have known that from the day of the taxpayer's immovableity list he wasn't allowed to have the subject of forced payment. It would not yet be known that the prohibition is entered in the prescribed immobility register. So, all this stuff they've been doing so far, and they've been doing this, it's been illegal. That's what the legislator of this law says, because obviously what's being built on now didn't exist in the existing law. So you can also ask for appropriate emergency remedies in procedures that are in effect until the day of these amendments and the additions of this law are made, because this is a recognition that so far it has all been unlawfully done. Just one more thing. The subject of forced payment can be the subject of collateral, but it cannot be a mortgage, because the mortgage is established only on real estate. The mortgage is established on a voluntary basis, not violently or by a tax coercion. Obviously, I don't believe these chambers of commerce from abroad have asked for this much to be massacred by our tax law. I think their initiatives have been used and abused to end something else, to ensure effective tax collection at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14034	Thank you. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Sasa Radulović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14035	In Article 12, we actually intervened on Article 113 of the basic law and one, really clear and precise attitude, replaced by three completely vague and inaccurate attitudes. The one that is clear and precise says that tax collection based on the secondary tax obligation is carried out with the proper application of the provisions of this law governing tax collection. Then you say – it is not, but – a tax-determining solution based on the secondary tax liability laid down in Article 1, the person responsible for the secondary tax obligation to settle the tax established within the time limit set in that solution. No, they'll come from that solution. Well, of course he has to execute within the time limit that's written in the solution. He's not going to ask for a neighbor's solution to see what time limit he's on, so he's paying off. This is really unserious, irresponsible, vague, inaccurate, whatever you want. It says - the mandatory payment of tax taxes on the basis of the secondary tax obligation established by the decision of Article 1 shall be made in accordance with this law. It's completely unnecessary not to caricate. I am convinced that these two present ministers have the authority to really accept this amendment because this is total nonsense. I don't have another expression. You really tell Vujovic that in the IRS, or the Ministry of Finance hires those who have found him, who have worked for years, who have completed an orderly college, and those who have received them with purchased diplomas, let them receive their salary while you are in power, but keep them from making such a mess and such a comedy from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14036	Thank you. Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP of the people, Sasa Radulović and MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14037	In order to work effectively, I will shorten the reasoning of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14038	Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković, MP of the people, Sasa Radulović. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14039	Article 124 is, in fact, a minor change is unnecessary. It's no problem what you put in your changes, either, but it was no bother standing up to what was in the basic law. It is that you are saying that in the case referred to in Article 118, the position is not important, as is the control of the exchange operation of gambling control and traffic recording control through fiscal registers, the procedure of field control starting without delivering orders for field control. You have now written the beginnings – it is done without delivering orders for field control to the taxpayer. So, there can be one, there can be another, but it would have been easier and easier if you'd left what already existed, it wouldn't have bothered to apply the law. Of course, in order for something to be done to begin and to begin, if it had started, it would have been done anyway, you did not write the end, but did. So, linguistically, there was absolutely no need for this change. So, I think you could adopt this amendment of ours, which we would have submitted, and we didn't want to intervene on every member with a proposal to delete those members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14040	Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP of the people Saša Radulović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14041	Well, of course, everything that coat of arms is born doesn't make it right. So the main thing about these changes is the law that isn't in place. This is Article 216. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which does not apply in 2016, where it is said that the resolution in the second instance cannot determine the jurisdiction of the Authority which resolved the administrative matter in the first instance, and the new law on the general administrative procedure does not prescribe this, but rather the question of the authority's jurisdiction, the first-degree, second-degree, the general administrative procedure law leaves it to the material-legislative rules, and in the case of this area, it should not be changed when it comes to tax administration, jurisdiction, because there is no such obligation. Since you're doing this in the next few members, just to draw your attention, you've had to offer us a proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act, because in this way you entered the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, which is prescribed by the Ministry Act. You don't have the authority to do this in the Ministry Act in that member who prescribes the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. You in that article have three positions - the first position of the Ministry of Finance, the second position of the Tax Administration and the third position of the Customs Administration. You're taking this mistake you're making here and you're painting it into customs law. Let me remind you, past tense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14042	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for respecting your time. Thank you very much. The National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, joint MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, National MP Zoran Zivković and National MP Sasa Radulović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, together with the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP of the people, Sasa Radulović, submitted to the 17th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14043	Krasic explained nicely that she had to remain a formula instead of a second-degree body, a second-degree tax authority. Now there's no need to repeat what's already been said. But here we have another addition. There is a complaint which does not delay the enforcement of the tax administrative act and then an extremely second-degree body, we say the second-degree tax authority may, however, delay the enforcement of the tax administrative act which determines the tax liability, against which the appeal is made, etc. Again, a dilemma, which I have debated here with some colleagues of the lawyers, cannot stand in the law that it is possible to make an appeal only if it is a solution that determines the tax liability, because an appeal can be made even if the tax obligation is not established. It must always be said that, at the request for a solution, it leaves the possibility of a complaint being made. This is one inaccuracy that we have met several more times in the different bill proposals that we receive from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so for this reason I have reported, that we also draw what we have been suffering since the beginning, when it comes to the second-degree tax authority. I repeat, the only thing that's right is that you've figured out what it means by the emergency procedure, you said it was within five days, it could have been three, seven. We're not talking about that deadline right now, but we're saying it wasn't good that it was so casual that it was just an emergency procedure. When I read that, I immediately recall emergency procedures in the judiciary, and then one of these emergency procedures doesn't last less than five years, but it's another topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14044	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14045	Thank you. I agree in everything with a colleague who spoke before me. I just need to express my finding that all these inaccuracies go to the expense of taxpayers, never to the benefit of the taxpayer and never to the benefit of the citizens, but always somehow those rights narrow down to citizens and taxpayers. That's very indicative and interesting. Now, let me ask you, Mr. Chairman, can you finally determine and give the MPs an answer as to how much time remains in the amendments? Since we have been talking and working here for so long, I think those professional services in the congregation should be able to do the job by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14046	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, together with the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Sasa Radulović, together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Sasa Radulović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14047	Thank you. For the same reason it's early, I'll shorten the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14048	Thank you for your efficiency. On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP Saša Radulović. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14049	It's about Article 165. Now there's something very interesting here. You from the government say, according to complaints against first-degree solutions made in the tax procedure, i.e. in the proceedings of a member of the previous one, the second-degree body – the Ministry of Finance Affairs. Why is this interesting for us? Because instead, in this basic law, it was the minister or the person he authorized to solve. Through all the laws where you and those before you wrote, instead of "Ministership", "Minister", we made amendments so that not "Minister" but "Ministership". And then you convinced us that our insistence was not in line with the Ministry Act, not according to the Government Act, well, I'm asking you now – what is in line with these laws? Are we right when we keep distracting you that not the Minister but the Ministry? Did you finally figure this out, so you put it into this law or did this happen somehow? (Branislav Nedimovic, from the post: Random. By accident? (Branislav Nedimovic, from the place: I'm sorry. Well, don't apologize to me, I'm sorry, which isn't in other laws, because this is a good formulation. This is a good solution, but it's just a question of how it's possible that out of a dozen laws where you didn't write it like this, only in this bill is it right. So again what I've been saying through some of the laws and some amendments, you have a collapsing within the law itself. You have a collapsing of the laws that you propose and that are passed here. So, what's the general conclusion? You don't write laws, you get laws probably in English, you don't have good translators, or you don't have good lecturers, and we've got shit like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14050	Thank you. MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14051	I would like to discuss to the respected previous speaker why this is well written and why they put it right – the Ministry of Finance Affairs, and not as before what they have sinned. Because they originally wrote this, they managed to write something without the European Union directive and without DOS fluids. So we can absolutely commend that. So, finally something that has nothing to do with DOS and it has nothing to do with the European Union. Great.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14052	Thank you. Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulović together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulović, together submitted the 23rd amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14053	Here are the criminal provisions, the addition of a new position – the taxpayer is a legal person who carries out goods or services in Serbia in accordance with the Tax Law, and in Serbia there is no permanent establishment, etc., has a permanent business unit but the goods or services are carried out outside his permanent business unit, the fine will be fined for a fine of between 100,000 and two million dinars. Every time I see a range like this, I'm creeping myself out. Such a range of penalties only opens up the possibility of abuse, arbitration. So, in one way, you can commit this violation and who is it that's going to tell someone - you're going to pay a fine of 100,000 and you're going to pay two million there? You're gonna pay 100 grand for having blue eyes, and you're gonna pay two million for having black eyes. Now, if that were a criterion, we'd still take it, but I'm afraid it will be -- you're gonna pay 100 grand, you're not gonna pay two million, one million we're gonna split, you stay, I'm fine, and the state's gonna get the lowest amount in the budget. Don't ever go with a proposal like this. If there's a crime, then in the head, the punishment is so great, not that you're giving someone a chance. If that was at least a possibility from, I don't know, 100,000 to 300, or from one million to two million, but from 100,000 dinars to two million dinars, I'm sorry, but it can only be done with premeditation and evil intent, that this is maximum abuse and that those who apply this and how it is used.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14054	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14055	Of course, this range has been left to allow arbitration and to make decisions on an arbitrary basis, depending on how close you are to the person who decides, or how prone to corrupt actions. We already have in practice these examples of some people paying or not paying taxes, so we can ask - when will the tax be charged by large taxpayers? For you pursue men for ridiculous and small amounts, and press them, and send them the executioners, while the greatest taxpayers still owe them. We know how Zeljko Mitrovic pays taxes – he gets money from the state to pay taxes for "Pink". That's clear. This is why there are such ranges of such provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14056	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14057	Thank you. Since tax payer Sasa Radulovic is not here, that I have no opponent to conduct dialogue with, I will shorten the reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14058	Thank you. To Article 24. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs of the Serbian Movement "Duveri", joint MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14059	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried very hard to allow the opposition to extend this until Thursday, however, they themselves are not ready to do so. I'm finishing up the amendment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14060	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14061	Just to point out that the opposition is in the O.R., and I hope that Alexander Vukic will have the courage to come to the Assembly on Thursday. But I don't think so. He's still a coward.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14062	I really don't understand why you need something like this? Completely off topic, completely off topic. To Article 25. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, joint MPs of the Dveri movement, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14063	This is a member who says that on 1 July 2017, the tax administration's jurisdiction with regard to resolution powers in the second-degree tax procedure ceases. This applies not only to the tax revenues of the republic, but also to the original incomes of local self-government units, where the second-degree procedure was also with the tax administration. It's all going to the ministry now. The second view says the ministry is taking over tax administration employees engaged in this second-degree procedure. The third view says that unless the cases are completed, the second-degree cases move to the ministry by 30 June 2017, i.e. the commission to work. I see in that transition a big problem, but thank God, we also have the Law on Administrative Disputes that also allows all of this to be reviewed in another place, so maybe something changes. When it comes to the income of local self-government units, where they have independence, I now draw your attention that this is not in line with the standards of local self-government, and I remind you that Serbia is a signator of the Charter and that you will have major problems, not only in this suicidal process of yours towards the EU, but also in general. You will also have problems with the Council of Europe, and you will have problems at other locations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14064	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 25. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, joint MPs of the DS, MP Zoran Zivković and MP of the people, Saša Radulović, together. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14065	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, at five o'clock you promised us a cut, and now it's five o'clock and two minutes, so please wake up the President of Parliament, let us deliver that intersection to see how far we've arrived with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14066	I'm gonna wake her up like Alexander Wolfie is gonna be scared of you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment and rejected amendments, according to Article 4, cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Download of Obligations to the Accionary Society for the production of petrochemical products, cheeses and chemicals of ‘HIP-Petrochemicals’ Pancheva according to the company ‘Foot Industry of Serbia’ A.D. NEW NOW AND TRANSFERING THESE OBLIGATIONS TO THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC REPUBLIC OF SERVE You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulović. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, together with the MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14068	Here, we've come to this eleventh law. Just to draw your attention that this is a law governing the way and dynamics of reconciliation of the Republic of Serbia's obligations. We have no idea why there is a commitment from the Republic of Serbia. Then you say there's something you can't beat up between shareholders. Now on the one hand we have a shareholder in Petrohemia, 54.89% owner of the Republic of Serbia and has 9 million 665,000 shares. Second shareholder of the Development Fund 13.63%, 2 million and 400,000 shares. Third shareholder 13.38% "Srbigas", 2 million 355,000 shares. Next NIS shareholder 12.72%, 2 million and 240,000 shares, Elektro Vojvodina 4.87%, 857,000 shares, Panchevo city with 0.51%) 89.000 shares. So we have these shareholders who owe NIS shareholders, and there is 56.15% Gazprom Oil, 29.88% Republika Srpska, 13.97% minority shareholders. Now someone's trying to convince us that the Republic with public funds needs to solve the private problems of shareholders. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14069	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs of the DS Parliament Club, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and together the MPs Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic submitted together. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14070	We have proposed an amendment to delete this member too, because there is no logic, nor is there a reasonable reason for the Republic of Serbia to owe the Republic of Serbia, because that is how it turns out by what you have proposed here. The bottom line is that this is all the obligations of taxpayers and taxpayers are paying this debt "Petrochemicals". But we didn't hear anything else that might interest us. How did this debt come about? Who's responsible for showing up this long? You wrote here in the justification for law-making that it was the wrong bombing in 1999. Of course, bombing is wrong for many evils that happened in Serbia. Of course, NATO criminals and criminals are to blame for the many evils that have happened in Serbia, but these are your friends today. Then I don't know who it is that's responsible and guilty of why it's come to this debt since 1999. We're not saying that there weren't any of these, conditionally speaking, responsibilities. There were sanctions, we understand that, but what happened from 2000 to today? Was that debt shrinking, was it increasing? Why does this appear again as a budgetary obligation, again the obligations of Serbian citizens, I repeat, without anyone's responsibility? You just end it like that, not just Petrochemy, but all the other meals of the cat, the budget will pay for all the commitments, and that's how it goes. She was "The Iron", so Bor, then Petrochemy, whoever she wants to arch, will pay the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14071	Thank you. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the DS Parliament Club and MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, together were the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and together the MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14072	Article 3. Only says 105m euros will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I do not wish to go back to that principle debate, however, this is the debate on amendments, but I would ask you, Mr Milicevic, to inform all MPs, especially those who are not from Panchev, that before raising the hands of those from Nis, they think why the Republic of Serbia did not take over public debt for the Electronic Industry, for Nisal, for the Machine Industry, why they did not assume obligations for "The First Five-year-old" from Tristenik, why they did not assume the obligation for "The Dragon", why they did not assume obligations for the engine and tractor industry, why they were not made in the same manner of obligations for other companies, business entities, where they also work or worked people and perhaps a lot more people than they were employed in Petrohim Panchevo. Simply, the Republic of Serbia, when it singles out any money for anything, has to be a father and a mother to everyone, not just some. Given this speed and this strategic importance, I am interested in there in leadership, in time, were some of Kostunica's generals. Remember Mr. Nedimovic, when you were active from the DSS who ran Petrochemy? Well, the general's retired. Who set them up? Well, it wasn't you, it wasn't you, it wasn't you, it was like you're not wondering now. Someone set them up. Who made those debts? Who's supposed to pay for that? For what should a resident of Dimitrovgrad pay for what some general was doing in... .?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14073	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to mix grandmothers and frogs like I just did. Social capital is the social capital that is in bankruptcy and restructuring, it has just been listed and cannot be compared to state capital. Now, for the electronics industry in Nis, blame those who are truly responsible, who thus led both privatisation and bankruptcy and everything else. Everything applies to both IMT and IMR and everything else. Next, let's think about it. When spoken of in the 105m euros, are we giving it to a company that doesn't work or that you're losing? Or are we giving him the air to start a cycle of investments by settling these obligations? So, there won't be any problem, in less than a month, we'll have the exact petrochemical balances, and what if these balances show that it's 50 or 60 billion in 2016? How much? Six billion, I apologize. That's it again, figure out how much it's in the euro. So he's making a profit. Why are you taking over the debt? In order to be able to start Petrochemicals their cycles, investments and increase production and increase that same profit. It's nothing else. Is the state giving it away? It's not a gift because it says that this debt has to go back to the state. So we're not taking anything from the pensioners, but the easiest thing is, we're taking the best from the citizens, we're taking it from this, we're taking it from that, so there's "Sartid" we've ruined. I've always said, that demagogy only speaks of one time when someone says you ruined Sartid, there are workers working there, for them workers are just numbers. Nothing more. They don't have a name or name. They don't have any family. They have nothing, they don't exist. Except as a number used exclusively for political purposes. Only in politics. If someone thinks that it's easy after 12, 13 years of total destruction that was preceded by sanctions and war conflicts that all economic operators can start in two, three, four, five years, they live in some utopia in a fairy tale. It's not even easy work, it's not easy. Well, some of them can't run any factories in ten years, and you throw it here, so it's five years long, so try it. Come on, how's it going? Let's see. Let's see, it's easy to say -- it's going to build a factory, and it's going to save a factory that has debts, so first it has to pay off those debts and save the factory. So don't put what's not in the law, don't represent the citizens and scare them. Especially... Don't get upset. There's no need. You can get baptized with your hands and feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14075	Mr. Arsic, you're talking about amendments. You've been given a word based on the amendment. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14076	Mr. Milicevic, Article 128 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because the MPs are going to bring their identification cards when they leave the gym, take a look. Focus, the concentration is now half past six, so dawn lights, you haven't paid attention. Certain MPs are no longer interested in this course of the session, and we and how it is because we have made a very serious approach to reviewing all these laws. Mr. Antić and Mr. Nedimovic listen as well as the ministry gentlemen, we give very serious arguments, of course you will not accept our amendments, but I ask you to seduce order regardless of this time as if it is the beginning now, I feel so, I suppose, and you, too, I am a worker and all fellow Serbian radicals. We'll keep going and please keep it as usual in the O.R. and take care of who is and who isn't there. Secondly, Mr. Milicevic, to keep your word, that's the second violation of Article 27 to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, it's been five hours, Mrs. President said, about eight hours ago, to me personally that at five, it's going to be an intersection. Please, and that's what you said, please, who's so funny who doesn't know how to say anything about anything, and that's one gentleman, who, a little by little, first time in my life, I've seen him maybe in a photo and throw something that smart, I don't know Martinovic, where he finds you smart enough to get this smart at half past six in the morning. If you and Mr. Orlic didn't teach them to say something smart, they should cover their ears and keep quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14077	I do not think I have hurt the members of the Rules of Procedure, and I appreciate and respect your interest as well as the interest and will of the other fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament at work, and I ask the Technical Service to check the parliamentary units and collect cards if MPs have forgotten them in the MPs' units. You'll get a cut, I'm sure someone from the technical service will, in the meantime, deliver, if the president has promised you, of course you'll get that information. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14078	Dear People's MPs, here at this early morning, just a few comments about what Mr Krasic was talking about but also about the predecessors. So Petrochemija is a strategic company in the Republic of Serbia, production at 300m euros annually, of which more than 220m euros, exports. So, both for the economy and for our overall external and trade balances, it's extremely significant. I repeat one strategic branch that deserves no doubt a great deal of attention from both the government and the entire parliament and society as a whole. It's taking over 105 million. I must point out that the total debt of Petrochemy to NIS is 254 million or over 31 billion dinars. It is about several months of negotiations that led to the fact that this 105 million will be taken over into public debt, around 71 million will be written off, 78 converted into the company's capital. This gives wind to the back and a whole new life for “Petrochemicals. ” I do not have a dilemma that the MPs, by raising their hands, or by voting for this proposal of the government, will do one important thing for the future of this country and I, if this proposal is supported, want to thank the MPs for the support and for such an assessment that is capitalically important for this country. We also know in the debate in principle, we have stated very precisely every year in which there was a debt with amounts and we end up with the fact that no debt has been made in the term of this government and that in these last two years, it has been a positive business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14079	Thank you. As for the second part of the question that has just been asked, it just received that information from the technical service that we will have time for another 50 applicants of the amendment. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. You have no basis for replication. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the peoples of Parliament Sasa Radulović. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14080	Mr. Milicevic, it is early in the morning, I do not allow anyone to desecrate my amendment. If I've submitted the amendment and I haven't mentioned Sartide or anything else, I won't let the amendment defile me, and then you won't let me answer. I didn't mention some things. Sleeping here, thinking, that's his problem. And keep an eye on every time someone misinterprets my words, I'll take it. As for Article 4, some dynamics are given. It is dynamic that the Republic of Serbia will, as a guarantee, assume public debt, all citizens. Why? Because he is a 12.72% shareholder in Petrochemia to pay 105m euros to NIS, where he is also a shareholder with 29.88% shares. Please, these are stock companies, these are not public enterprises, these are neither state-owned enterprises, these are neither social enterprises. Every company, company, that's privatized either way, or even thieving, and most of them thieving, since 2001 and back here, you have to know, no matter what the status of a social enterprise, it's had state capital. If it wasn't for government capital, how would the guarantee fund get action? On what grounds? What are we talking about? Well, all businesses in Serbia are strategic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14081	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The 5th Amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs of the DS parliamentary group and MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14082	Article 5 defines the settlement of obligations. Now I'm going to point to one thing. A few years ago, it was also a strategic enterprise and a 250m-euro loan was granted. Why? To build a state-of-the-art melting room. Is that melting room working today? Does it work? Well, then why does RTB Bor have losses? Well, that 250 million was taken to come out of loss, and now they're losses, and now they're subsidies, and now you're grabbing your head what you're going to do with RTB Bora. In 2001, Djindjic proposed to plant peanuts, right, and to make chairs, and then Mladjan Dinkic introduced those Canadian partners and who knows what happened there. It's all strategic in Serbia. When it comes to money, it's all strategic, without it there's nothing. It's been a few years, and then a hook goes on for a few more years, and the actors of all of this are released from any responsibility. Now, that's the European path of this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14083	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14084	The RTB Bor smelt works. After that investment, we had a dramatic decline in the world market price of copper with over six thousand dollars per tonne went to below four and a half thousand, which is indeed a cardinal fact that has affected the work of all world and copper merchants and smelters. Now that the price of copper is somewhere on level 5,500, 5,600, RTB is doing absolutely positive, it's pacifying its obligations to UPPR. What makes me particularly happy, we're witnessing that in the first months when RTB paid its current invoice for both electricity and mining, it's about amounts measured in hundreds of millions of dinars. I really understand the need to derail this and I don't look at it at all for an hour, but I really do expect far more understanding from the parliamentary group that is now challenging this, considering that it is really strategic companies, a couple of exeleans, and where, besides that economic moment, I expect this patriotic one, because it has always come from the ranks of that parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14085	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14086	Thank you. We have proposed erasing Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Articles 5, which allow no claims paid by the State to grant those claims to a third legal or physical person. What's interesting is that when the government rejected our amendment, she wrote practically in the explanation of the essence of why we can't support this law. She wrote that this is a lex specialis, that this law is a lex specialis and since this government unfortunately solves problems with lex specialis and this kind of law, means not by creating a predictable legal system in which both citizens and investors and domestic and foreign people will know what they can expect, what obligations, but by solving the problems of lex specialists. So now the problem, unfortunately, is trying to solve the Lex special. This is an old debt and it would certainly help Petrochemicals to do better business in the future, but the Lex specialis is not working. We had a lex specialis and we have it today for the "Belgrade on Water" project. We've got lex specials in a variety of other cases. That's what we repeat every time such a law comes here, it doesn't create legal certainty. On the contrary, it makes a precedent and sends a message that there are both privileged citizens and investors, and that this government comes out to meet as much as it wants and wants those who are privileged, and these others are condemned to insecurity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14087	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14088	From the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to agree in one part of the discussion with the applicant for the amendment. He's absolutely right, this government is solving problems. It solves problems, so let it solve the Lex special, unlike other previous governments by 2012, which have caused problems, so we have inherited these problems and we need to solve them. Do you know how much who cares if they can preserve their jobs and their family's existence whether it's a Lex specialis or another, the general law, they don't care much. Therefore, this amendment should be rejected. The law needs to be supported. It will save jobs, preserve another factory, and ultimately, it will not be damaged by either the budget or the citizens, unlike the previous governments, what was happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14089	The amendment, which is added after Article 5, is added by a new member of 5a and 5b, together with the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added after Article 5, is a new member of 5a, is MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs of the DS Group, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, together the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic and together the MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic submitted. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14090	It is a final provision that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication. Now, good wishes, good stories, we've listened to each other in this assembly, not to tell you, and it's legitimately right for those who support power to believe that. I belong to the opposition party. I do not believe and I have never believed those who are calling on the EU. They always said - it is in line with EU requirements. This is not the type of law, but when someone does not call on the EU then spins some mantra about strategic importance, so RTB Bor had such a great strategic significance and they built a fountain in the centre of Bora for winter. It's the only fountain in Serbia that works on antifreeze. You're looking at me, by minus 20 they have a fountain, they're living with money, they're buying everything and everything, and they're bringing their companies to the brink of destruction. Woe to those firms saved by Mladjan Dinkic or those who follow his ideology and his policy, which is the most today in the government. They may not be in the front row, but those state secretaries, experts, experts, for everything and everything. Now, that experience makes me endure these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14091	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. In Article 163(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Article 163(4) Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and on details, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. By written amendments to article 41, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic withdrew. You've received reports from the board. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dragan Vesović and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic and the MPs of the DS Group together. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14092	The draft law amending and supplementing customs law, fourth in a row, was also extorted by the European Commission. You yourself wrote that it was the reason you passed this law, and then you explained why you proposed it by emergency procedure. You're saying that the Customs Act would be in line with other regulations that have an impact on the practices of customs authorities, such as the Law on Infringements, the Law on Inspection, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and others. And now a man not to believe that it is possible that in legal traffic in Serbia there was a Customs Act that was not in accordance with the Law on Infringements, on Inspectives, on the Protection of Personal Data. If we had told you by chance that your law is in collegiate with these laws that I've listed, you would have jumped into your eyes, we can't stand that you're advanced, that you're successful, etc., and when you say that, then you don't know how to react. Who guarantees us that what you are proposing today, as you have received as an EU order, or, as you have written, that this is not contrary to other legal acts, to other laws. God forbid it's in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since you're not even foreign to propose here and adopt unconstitutional laws. So these remarks could have been made with any other member you're changing here, and this second one was somehow the most appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14093	Thank you, colleague. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS Group of Members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, joint MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14094	We have submitted this amendment in order to only draw attention to the mangupa's way of calling on the Proposer to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which no longer exists in legal traffic, and not to call on the applicable law of 2016 when defining who is the second-degree authority and who decides on the appeal. So, the promoter doesn't know what law is in force, which law is in place, but the promoter doesn't know one more thing. Both tax regulations and these customs regulations and first-degree and second-degree procedures were, if I may say so, tax administrations and customs administrations only for the sake of efficiency and for the need of participants in the procedure. This is how you moved the second-degree procedure to Belgrade. You will lose efficiency, and you will lose efficiency. Since I know who I'm dealing with, I'm just afraid of what's gonna happen in administrative disputes, what's gonna happen here. I hope there's still a few other honest judges in the administrative court.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14095	Thank you. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Sasa Radulović, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14096	This is a member who actually refers to a member of the 19th basic law, and a member of the 19th is talking about binding notice, about the classification of goods and the origin of goods. And then, of course, it was elaborated on the request of the customs authority, for the application of the OES or the OEP in the customs procedure, the person to whom the binding notice has been issued must prove, and then say what, and so on, the person to whom the binding notice has been issued which has ceased to apply on the basis of Article 8, may use this notice six months from the day of the termination of its importance and so on, that I do not read all of it, there is simply no time so much. A binding notification under the conditions laid down in paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Article may be used exclusively for certain purposes, but the final position of this member which says, against the decision referred to in Article 1, the applicant may declare a complaint to the Ministry. And now, we ask, why did you delete this? Does this mean that this decision from that first position is first-degree and judicial and executive and final, that there is no possibility of making an appeal to such a decision. Somehow, it doesn't make any sense to us, and it's not even possible to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that's why we suggested that this member be deleted, and that we would have done so, and that we didn't delete the whole law, and we suggested essentially eradicating the whole law, so I guess since you've changed this law twice, you've fulfilled all the requirements of the EU, you won't be changing the laws every month.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14097	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14098	This applies to Article 21 and to compensation for customs services. The whole change in this article 21 is similar to what we talked about today when we talked about RTS, it's not a subscription, it's a tax, and now it's not a fee, it's a tax again. We don't understand why you're changing regulations for such banal things, and nothing has essentially changed. Whether what is paid for the service of the customs authority is called tax or compensation is absolutely irrelevant. It's much more important who pays for it, under what conditions, how much money is paid, so we don't think we should have touched this member either. However, here you have deleted the final position of Article 21 where you have said that Customs Administration is a fee based on the provision of services referred to in Article 2, as well as the previous one based on the performance of the contract. If you've been erasing it now, then we're asking, for what reasons and why does the Customs Administration no longer belong to these fees, or to whom do they belong? These fees exist so they exist, they are charged, and they are charged. Who? Everything straight into the budget? Everything, from pensions to customs, from wages, just to fill the budget, to look high and loaded and basically none of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14099	The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14100	And what a big deal to replace a fee and a tax. As a matter of fact, it is the same for the citizens of Serbia. It has to be paid, but it's an important explanation. And we have in mind that this is a alignment with EU regulations, which is the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. The fees are the national interest of the Republic of Serbia because we are coordinating with the EU. Is there anything that is not in the EU's interest and anything that we will do as Serbia's public interest, without having to do with the EU, because for 16 years we have been on the road to the EU and that our public interest could be reduced to this -- one 600, 700,000 people less, 800,000 people without a job, tens of billions of euros we have been robbed and disaster and destruction worse than sanctions and war. So, absolutely the EU has no alternative, and that our interest in the EU save us from God, I don't know if anything worse has happened to us in life than that trip to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14101	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14102	Very short. Not to be accepted, of course. The DOS successes that have just been praised certainly are no reason to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14103	Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14104	Before I proceed with this amendment to Article 9, only one sentence concerning Article 8. You did this for free because this is all contrary to Article 17. Budgetary system law. So it is a public income tax. This fee is customs revenue, so it is simply incomprehensible for the government to be competent to determine the amount and fees and fees. You've messed things up a little bit. The tax has to be determined by law, but this wouldn't be the only problem. As for the protection of personal data, you had no need at all to enter this provision because the Personal Data Protection Act is directly applicable. You, as someone who has been responsible for this information, were above all obliged to pass your sublegal acts to apply the Personal Data Protection Act, or to establish those bases and those records and to determine how these data will be kept from unauthorized use, and what you have prescribed and said in this law – we will also apply the Personal Data Protection Act is absolutely unnecessary. If someone had controlled it, a slightly more serious man he wouldn't have let you sign this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14105	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14106	Just to point out that this is often a practice to pass laws that oblige us to apply the law. This is no exception. In these six months, I think this is the third, fourth law. We've even passed all the laws that need to be imposed on the state authorities to apply the law, so this doesn't have to surprise us at all that such a provision exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14107	Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14108	This article refers to Article 25, which provides for the confidentiality of information and what you have added to this article is indeed absolutely unnecessary. When I read this, I wondered, "Save God, why do they need this?" You are saying that the customs authority with data that are in its nature, i.e. how to obtain secrets, will act in accordance with the laws governing the confidentiality of data and the protection of business secrets. Of course he will. You could've written more here if someone killed someone, they'd be held accountable by the Criminal Code. What are you writing about something regulated by another law? Why do you burden one law with some norms to make it look like this fat book — the law? That's not the point. If we have one substance regulated by one regulation, one law, then there's no need for every law to remind us that we're going to apply that other law. You say in the second point – data owned by the customs authority, which are marked by some of the degrees of secrecy, can be made available to the public in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance. Yes, of course, this is true. But it's unnecessary to write here, the law goes crazy, it's complicated that that customs officer over there who, instead of dealing with what's the narrow speciality of customs, he has to read these things that have nothing to do with customs, which have nothing to do with what's the essence of this law. And that other laws in force in the Republic of Serbia must be applied, of course. You should now from all the laws that apply here, from the criminal, the criminal, to list everyone who has to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14109	Thank you. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14110	I'm talking about Article 29, the obligations of other state authorities regarding customs goods. This member has had three attitudes so far, and you, for all of your known reasons, have been erasing the last attitude. I'm trying to see in an explanation what you said about erasing this attitude, which you're not accepting this amendment and erasing it. Of course, you're saying that this law is not only in line with EU laws, because we've put you through all the amendments, that everything we've had in the debate these days and not just these days, but since you took power from those who went the same way before you, you ministers, and then and now in the same car. So, you make all the laws because you are ordered by the EU and then some clerk writes to you that you should delete the position that he says - import duties are paid after the costs incurred in connection with the goods in Item 2 of this article are settled. It's the cost of keeping, selling, etc. And yet it remains unsaid whether these taxes will continue to be paid. If he will, since you've crossed them here, when, how, to whom, you either won't pay or forgive, they can keep as much as they want, etc., without any obligation. Again, the essential question, if you're erasing this now and you haven't regulated this through this law anywhere, then you've been knowingly doing something that you're now assessing illegally all these years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14111	Thank you. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJjiljana Mihajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14112	It is a member of 47a – establishing the customs value of the data carrier, and now the crucial changes again. In the previous, i.e. still current law, the programme support referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall not be considered as integrated cars, semi-conductors and similar devices or products containing such cars or devices. Now, that's no longer -- with software support, but now I guess it's modern to say -- this member's data carrier is not considered an integrated car. Also in the following position - data and programming instructions, so it stood out, from the position of 1 this member is not considered sound, cinematographic or video or manual, and now instead of - data and programming instructions, you say - software support. So it can be applied in conversation like this, but that it has to be legally changed, it just isn't, that is. It is the termology of some modern technologies, but it didn't bother, nor is it in any of the lags in that sense, nor is what you've written before -- software support, even beyond that term, and it's more appropriate than this data carrier. But, well, they told you that the law needs to be changed, so you go, so let's change as many members as possible, for no reason at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14113	Thank you. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's Parliament group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14114	We've submitted an amendment to permanently stamp something that, by our assessment, shouldn't be happening. This applies to Article 73. You have changed that article, and it now reads this way: “Faces that have delivered foreign goods to the customs authority are required by that authority to act or use such goods. ” Come on, this simple sentence can be understood, but the title above that article says – determining customs treatment or use and in the basic text says that it is determined by the customs authority, and you change it all and say it like this – the one who arranged the goods requires how to act. Babes and frogs. Whoever understands this will understand. What kind of translation is this, I don't know, is this a Google translator maybe? Who did that? Who's cheating on you, aman, for this? I'd charge you for harassing us at six o'clock in the morning with stuff like this. Milicevic, the punishment to charge the government, I tell you the truth. My wolf, if he heard what you wrote, and he killed you all, my wolf would kill you. When could he have learned this from us? You're the one who tricked him, you're the one who tricked Wolfie into this agenda. You didn't tell him what was going on. When he sees this, he will be baptized with both his left and his right hand. Well, because of you, he's going to call an emergency parliamentary election. He's got no one to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14115	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has been submitted to the amendment by MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14116	This Article 13 of the Law amends Article 73. Customs law for weather compliance with EU customs law, and we find ourselves lost in translation here somewhere. We didn't translate nicely, but we wanted to agree to the EU Customs Law and it's really wonderful. Then perhaps this provision should be extended to us by Minister Nedimovic who, I must commend him, has been here all day with us. We're here 27, 28 MPs in the O.R., he's been here all day with us, bright, smiling, every honor of the minister, although I must say that in these 27 agenda points there's nothing about your jurisdiction. So you should be criticizing someone in the government for sending you here to be with us, but good for you. Then it is best for you to spread to us on behalf of the Ministry of Finance what they wanted to tell us by this harmonisation, since I see that the whole law is also passed in order to comply with the EU and their customs system, in order to join the World Trade Organisation. About two hours ago, about four of us heard about pesticides in food, but then we forgot to hear and worry about the entry of genetically modified food, which you are heartily propagating, and you want to find yourself at our citizens' tables, because we have to enter the World Trade Organization, so here's another reason why we have to be concerned about everything that comes from the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14117	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14118	Let me just say it one more time, because it's the same case as it's on several occasions so far. None of what we've heard as to God's cause for accepting the amendment has anything to do with the relationship mildly, so there's no reason for us to support this. The fact that someone doesn't even know what the World Trade Organisation is, or who's a member there, or what he'd say in the first place, remains his private problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14119	Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14120	It's about Article 103, actually the post-control declaration. I'm not going to read this article now, of course, but just the last position you added to this article and you said to carry out ex post controls by the customs authority, the provisions of the Law governing the conduct of inspection supervision shall be applied accordingly. I purposely read slowly, in order to draw attention to ministers, so perhaps if I wake up, that in an explanation, why you did not accept the Law, the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the Customs Law does not only comply with EU legislation, but also complies with national laws. Please tell me nicely to the ignorant, stupid, unsanitary, with whom you national law have brought this provision into line? In conclusion, written, on the basis of some European Commission act, sent from the EU, you foolishly translated and then explained that it is in accordance with some national law. Come on, tell me which one? Ask, is Vujovic in charge of this? Yes, it is. Ask Dusan Vujovic, he may have brought this from Ukraine, but not to us Ukraine's domestic law, we are domestic laws in Serbia, we are in Serbia and we are not interested in Ukrainian laws, where it was celebrated, or the EU where it was celebrated and where you would be, but you will not all earn that great pension. You'd better sit where you are and turn to the country of Serbia. Sit there and don't think. You see how much more beautiful you are here than you are in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14121	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14122	So we've concluded that there's no one competent in the O.R. who can tell us what the real translation of what's coming from the EU is. So we have to look for an answer somewhere, probably from the government's law enforcement service, because obviously we know it's in line with EU rights, but we don't know what national laws it's harmonising with. It's very, very interesting, but now our distinguished colleague Arsic would be out of line, no matter what EU we're doing in our interest, and you're making everything up, making up that there's something in line with the EU, making up that the salaries are reduced, making up that pensions have been reduced. So it's probably the result of our fatigue and our sleeplessness, but as soon as we get some sleep and wake up, we'll wake up in a perfect state, created by Alexander Vukic for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14123	According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14124	Thanks again. I call for it not to be accepted for reasons that Mr. Arsic would share with the amendment's promoter, that he is, by chance, here, not to do any work in the office. I'd tell him that the inspection that's mentioned can be found within a few seconds, but he doesn't need to be lazy, and he needs to have at least a little desire to do something, before you say something, or after you say it, but just to do something. On the subject of waking up, I'm sure, Mr. Arsic would tell him not to bother, sleep, sleep equally well suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14125	You have no basis for replication, don't. On article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, they filed... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14126	Member of the 106th speaker speaks on the subject of the agenda, and I have not seen that Mr. Arsic is the topic of the agenda. If Mr. Arsic wants to answer, he'll definitely come. Which he's been doing all night. You don't need to be his lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14127	Mr. Nogo, I'm trying to understand you, but believe me, I'm having a hard time. Mr. Arsic is not the subject of the agenda, but you mentioned Mr. Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14128	Article 15 of the proposal of this law is the highlight of legal science, and I would really like to meet the genius who wrote this Article 15, if at all possible. When she reads to you what this article says on the 15th, then I'm going to ask you seriously if there's still one graduate lawyer in this finance ministry who went to school neatly, got a degree, that is, earned his degree by taking exams. Imagine what a genius says. In Article 104(2), the following point is added: Imagine significant changes in customs laws. And you make remarks to us when we say that a certain member is deleted. Gentlemen, tell those lawyers this was written by someone, if it's written here. If translated, that translator will be fired immediately. If it's written here, then whoever bought a diploma in some pantry sits there, and let some lawyer do you drafts of the law This is the gentlemen legal technical order that has never been the subject of debate in parliament in life and in the world. Imagine we are now discussing in parliament amendments to the law, about a member who you asked to be deleted, because it was actually written here as a printing error. It would be good for you ministers to discuss, too, if the water had come from a minister we can discuss with. There's not a single minister we'd like to discuss the matter with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14129	Time. Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. 103/3MG/VZ
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14130	Another translation problem. Let me tell you something, there's no such thing as World Trade Organisation rules, there's no one in the EU. This is a figment of imagination. I'll tell you right away. When you write laws, then you say something is a condition for, so when you write laws, something is the reason something is done. This is where the mix is made, so the word reason is changed by word terms, so now terms because of, that's something new. If I'd died half an hour ago, I wouldn't have known there was this possibility. It's about the same thing as analoguely, digitally, you know. Same thing. The government explained to us when it's on paper it's analogous, and when you go by e-mail, it's digital, and we're asking that we digitally send amendments. They say he can't. There is no such system in the National Assembly. Why? It's all about the CIA spy center in Sofia, and when the system breaks down here, he actually cracks in Sofia, he's not here. It's the US Said, she's helping. When they give you help, you shaved the bosna. Their help is like cheese in a mouse hunter and you like cheese in a mouse. You answer the word, you're the minister, you're right, you have a connection, there's no problem. So the conditions are -- for, the reasons are -- because. Conditions for – they do not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14131	Thank you. To Article 17. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14132	Something similar to the translation. It is said this way – usually the customs authority ends the procedure. And here in this new jargon - the customs authority will extend the procedure. There, that's the big change. Now they're very smart. Now, you explain to me how you're going to extend the procedure, how did you imagine it, when the goods headed towards Kosovo and Metohija? Do you have a solution to this law? You've got a transit, you've got an entrance, you've got an exit, so I won't be harassing these tiny hours. Do you have any provisions for Kosovo and Metohija? Is under the Customs Law of Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of the Republic of Serbia? Is this the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you do something about it in Customs Law? Do you know of new customs crossings – Medvedja-Kosovo Kamenica? They took pictures, there was a movie in Brussels. It was the one from Preshevo and the one from Medvedja, the president of the municipalities, at the opening ceremony. And we don't have any news, like it never happened. There, it happened. And Deutsche Veli made a special contribution as Serbia co-operates with Kosovo, and makes a new, integrated transition. Why don't you look me in the face? Why don't you all just bow your head down? You signed the Brussels Agreement, I didn't sign it. You're proud of the Brussels Agreement. Did those of the Democratic Party praise you the other day? They say it's nice that you're taking us to the EU. And you beat them to it, and they would sign the Brussels Agreement. Why isn't there one word about it? Tough questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14133	Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14134	This is actually a change of Article 120 – external transit, i.e. specific provisions, that is a superscription, and the title above this article is – Transit procedure in the territory of a third country. Now we have an epochal change again, in paragraph 2, actually after Article 1, the second point is added: "In the case of item 1 of point 2 of this article, the procedure is considered to be interrupted," it said, "as the goods are located in the territory of a third country". And now, instead of considering the procedure to be terminated, you said that the procedure is considered suspended while the goods are located in the territory of a third country. In the legal sense and in the sense of the provision of this Article, that is, this position does not have the same meaning as the term ‘interrupted’ and ‘suspensed’. As a lawyer, I think it's really a broken-down case, not a suspension. And this shouldn't have happened. Again the problem – either a bad translation from English or a bad lawyer. I don't know what to doubt anymore. I am absolutely sure that you are doing all of this by order from the European Union, as you are all doing in the Government by order of the European Union, I have already said – they by eye, you by leap. It's very bad for the state of Serbia. On the other hand, in this kind of expansion of bought diplomas, from the president of the state to Jorgenka's doctorate, to all kinds of service officials... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14135	Thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belančić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14136	Another member where we deal with Google translators. "General Security" is now a "common security", what once was -- and which customs administrations prove, is now changing -- or for which the customs authority finds out about. That's what it is, throw your hand at half-six. How did he find out? The sparrow-the Podoon flew away and told me. It's not a customs procedure that can be regulated. It's one of the very rigorous procedures, there's a written clue for everything, written evidence. Here with you, all the dwarves can pass, because that is a condition for us to enter the European Union. Just so you know, take your time. In this four-year period, the promise is to get to the front door of the EU, not there, far away, there is no room, but at the door. So you don't need to rush. As soon as you're in such a hurry, you lower your negotiating position, your price. And so uncritical that you bring a bad translation into our beautiful, beautiful language, where everything is clear, it's unnecessary. No one will praise you. You think the Brussels people are seriously thanking you. No, I don't. They're thanking you for your form. You know why they praise you? Here, let me explain. They know us much better than we know about ourselves. From 1941 to 1945, only two occupier soldiers were killed in Belgrade, and 25,000 Serbs indicated everything to the Germans. That's what we've got today. When a stranger comes in here, everyone opens up nice. Even if he brings a little steam, happy. They're telling each other that they're doing some damage to each other, that the neighbors are dying of a cow. They know our mentality. Don't buy it. Resist if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14137	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14138	Here add this attitude 8, you incorrectly define, or you give more authority to the government, but you do not specify what special circumstances these are when it can temporarily prohibit the use of common security in external transit. So I think, as in the next point 9, where you still have some precision, that should be made clear to Article 8. But everything here, of course, is brought in line with the harmonisation of legal regulations with EU regulations. However, there is a key problem that we will never join the EU. It's ideal and good for us, but what are you people gonna do? What will the citizens of Serbia do and what will the state of Serbia do that we have failed on that road to the EU, which we will never enter because the EU will fall apart, nor does it intend to expand? So, we do everything for free, we do it for free. You are obliged to answer the question asked by MP Krasic earlier – how does this customs law apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? You have an answer for everything, you keep picking up, and I hope that some bird in the SNS MP's club will come forward about it, so answer us how the customs law treats Kosovo and Metohija and that territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14139	According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14140	Here, you've waited. I like some discussions very much, you know. They fall apart across the EU, and you prescribe laws, and this, and that, and everyone wants us to have a standard, and even those like that in the developed EU countries. Now, somebody else tell me that the EU countries are legally unsettled, and I'd like someone to tell me that. He can say it, but he can prove it to me. So it says they're arranged countries. Now, I guess Serbia should be a country too. Whether we enter the EU or not, leave it to the negotiating team that runs the process but laws that are good and guarantee legal certainty to all citizens and to all those who want to participate in some business in Serbia, I do not see what is bothering you. Or do you want us to be in chaos, anarchy, that we don't have a state, that's surprising, especially since such discussions have a lawyer. The definition of law is why laws are passed, so that some areas can be arranged and people don't argue. I guess that's what this assembly is about, not whatever it is, and a bad translation, and this, and that, and Google, and that's what lawyers are saying. So, we organize our country by one model not to be EU members but first because it is good for our citizens and for our country. So we have a certain legal certainty and consistency of everything that's going on here. Only in this way can we enable Serbia to develop economically, and that citizens have the protection of the state, all of them equally, and not as it has been so far, whether only those who had money had the protection of the state, and those who did not have it were an easy target for those who decided to get their hands on some of their assets, as it was in the privatisations from 2001 to 1012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14141	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14142	Of course, it's very interesting, I suppose, for this environment, and if anyone's looking to have these populist comments, but you've proposed a distinguished colleague, your MP group, 43 amendments to this law. So, did you mention in any of the amendments to Kosovo and Metohija? No, all your amendments were deleted. This government struggles every day for the Republic of Serbia to be present at KIM to the extent possible and to help the people who live there, and your amendments are – deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14143	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14144	I will be very brief, as one MP of the ruling majority like to say. This state arrangement in line with the civilised EU society cost 75% of the goods from imports and that we handed over our own market and that we brought the economy where we brought it. That's why we're poor today because we've just left everything to strangers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14145	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14146	This is about article 125 of the basic law, of internal transit, of the concept of internal transit and of the mode of movement of goods. This is the title of this law and the second point is said: the movement of goods under Article 1 may be within the transit procedure provided that such possibility is provided for by international agreement. There's a little misunderstanding here about your amendment to the law. This is, therefore, the basic text, but you now say the movement of goods under Article 1 may be within the framework of the internal transit procedure provided that such an option is provided for by international agreement. Transit is the transport of goods from one place to another. Why you've now inserted an internal transit here, and you expect it to be envisaged by an international agreement. Honestly, it's not the most understandable, it's not even in your explanation, because you're just saying that in addition to harmonising the law with EU regulations, you're harmonising with our regulations, so here, please rub your eyes a little bit, wake up and tell us which of our internal regulations is in line with this position of Article 2 of Article 125. There's no such regulation, but if you've already written it, there might be something we don't know, so be kind enough to explain it to us, because it's impossible that something can be related to internal transit, to the inner transport of goods from one place to the B place, and that it has to be regulated by an international agreement. Or it really has to do with that EU of yours that sends us these dangerous things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14147	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14148	Thank you very much. I'm calling for her not to be accepted. I listened to the arguments first because I don't consider it an appropriate explanation that someone has misunderstandings. I expect he has a specific proposal because he's very clear on what he wants to achieve. That's the first thing. Another thing, because, as we've heard where we are, I absolutely don't think for any reason that kind of sentence from someone who really doesn't know where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14149	Replica, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14150	I guess this was supposed to be an insult. I don't know who doesn't know where he is, because I know where I am unlike this gentleman... (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: It did not apply to you. Wait, it wasn't about what I said?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14151	No, it wasn't about your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14152	Well, then I don't have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14153	By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the Customs Law that we now have large imports from EU countries, but it's the one gentleman who was the minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica who called himself Predrag Bubalo. That gentleman shut down all the factories and then it's simply a law of supply and demand when you don't have a factory somewhere you have to get some goods. When someone is such a great patriot, what he's looking for with a political party that has ruined all the factories in Serbia. So, absolutely everything. The privatisation was done by Mr. Bubalo, and before that, Vlahovic. That's right, so what do you do with them? How come you're not with them? Don't say that, don't blame the Customs Act for the factory closed, blame the DSS you went to the election with. I always say who you're with. So I don't see the difference, and they represented themselves as the biggest patriots, but that's why they ruined the SRJ, so they ruined the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and eventually Kosovo unilaterally declared independence all under their authority. And you're with them, and your name is Patriot block, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14155	Mr. Nogo, say it. He mentioned the DSS and his colleagues had a dialogue on the subject, it was a debate. [[Srjan Nogo, from the place: Please, replica.]] Why it offends you that he mentioned DS, I still don't understand. No, we're not playing with the Rules of Procedure's injuries right now. Here, you get a line and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14156	Now let's be clear, the gentleman who spoke before me had a direct dialogue with me, spoke to me. I don't mind what he mentions about the DSS, she has to answer, and DS has to answer for what they did during that period and the faces that were there at the time. Here, Mr. Nedimovic was in that party, but he wasn't responsible for what DS was doing at the time, so he can't be respected, even though he's from the same place as Bubalo. Here, together, me and Mr. Arsic, I think we can agree on one thing, that those persons who have ruined Serbia, who have caused us chaos in the privatisation process, which means, with the Privatisation Agency, with Bubal, with Djindjic, with Siniš Mali, I told Vlahovic to Bubal, Dinkic, so I don't know who from SNS, that they have to respond, that they have to be processed, that criminal charges are filed and that the proceedings are carried out until the end, and not as in the case of Mladjan Dinkic, to stop. The prosecutor appointed by the head of the BIA, he's suspending the proceedings. And even the prime minister, or Prime Minister, criticises these proceedings, criticises what he says, there is no responsibility of Dinkic and Karic, if they are not there, who has it? I called Mirjana Labovic here, who was the expert in the case of Bogoljub Karic, that she was incompetent, that she bought a diploma, and the Justice Ministry is not responding on this issue. So let's go, if you're okay with it, as I am, that someone must be responsible for everything that happened to us in the previous period, for all these quasi privatisations, for everything that's been robbed and kidnapped by this people, for this whole situation, that 800,000 people are out of work, and that we're in the material position we're in today. It can't be a flat-rate shooting in the Assembly, but it has to get some epilogues and we finally have to set up a system of responsibility, because this is not going to be good for you, for me, for anyone in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14157	You have the right to a replica, mentioned by the SNS, as an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14158	Now look at this replacement thesis. Now let's do it in a row. The list of names, so the Privatisation Act was proposed by two mengoons - Vlahovic and Bubalo, and they ruined all businesses because the value of capital was valued on the basis of the book value of assets. Right? Now, what does the Privatisation Agency have to do with this? She's law enforcement. It's about who makes the law and who proposes it. Now, now that you're on the list with the MP who took part in the law, ask yourself what you're looking for with such a man. Now, being on the list with an MP who went to Miskovic, likely to drink coffee, on your list, the same one who attacks the state at international meetings that it's corrupt, that's not done. It can be done here, but it can't be at international meetings, and in this mandate, etc. Your goal was to enter parliament completely legitimately, but the aim cannot be justified. So you were simply ready to team up with the devil to get in here, and I can imagine who you'd be ready to team up with to rule Serbia. And what you're hanging out with right now, you're just bringing us back in time for some other Bugalo and some other Vlahovic to sell out this little state property that's left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14159	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14160	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask Mr. Nog to speak the truth. First of all, Bubalo is not from Sremska Mitrovica at all, and you should apologize to the citizens of Sremska Mitrovica not to mess with anyone. I think it's very important. So please state the facts. It's half past seven, we've been having a debate, but who knows how long. I assume you're already tired, which is why you missed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14161	Members of the 23rd Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, mr. Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and together the MPs of the DS. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14162	Mr. Chairman, you should have said 22, but well, I'll talk about 22 and 23. You skipped one, and that's connected, just so you know. Let me tell you, in Article 22, there was almost the same text that was left, only the word was out that domestic goods were intended for export. Now, what's important is that it changes the essence of this provision now and raises the question of whether it can be done in free zones at all. As far as this Article 23 is concerned, I believe this was written by the director of Luke Novi Sad. What you've installed here, it's about as if it's being kept for smuggling. When you read this text, just imagine in your head – if I want to save the goods for smuggling in a free zone or in a customs warehouse, what I would do, and the first association will be what you have built. Is that what the EU was looking for? She was probably looking. That's where the biggest villains lie. In Brussels, there is a NATO pact headquarters, which bombed us, and in Brussels is the EU's headquarters that kidnaps us from KIM. Do you really expect anything good to come from Brussels? They haven't finished the dirty work yet. The last thing they're going to be here, what they're asking of us, is an insider who's going to sign. Take care of it. Tough questions, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14163	Thank you, with an apology. You were right, Amendment 22. Let's move on. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14164	This article refers to Article 195 of the basic law, which is the addition of goods located in a free zone or a free warehouse in a customs authority. Completely, as we said in the explanation, a unnecessary change that will not restore or improve this bill. Here we have one position in the basic article 195 that you may have first treated, and you are not, which says that at the request of an interested person, the customs authority will verify whether the goods placed in a free zone or in a free warehouse are domestic or foreign goods. This is this possible possibility of abuse that Mr Krasic was just talking about. And this is an ideal opportunity, and now you're the only one left, a colleague of Nedimovic's. You were a national MP at the National Assembly at the time, when we passed the law, as well as Mr. Arsic, on free zones in Serbia. There are 14 of them so far. That's under-exploited potential. To Arsic's question about how we can create a factory that really yellow, whose followers you've destroyed, so, Mr. Arsic, why don't you use the free zones? Here, you're from the Fireman, Smaderevo is right under your nose, as you say. How many more potentials are there and free squares in that area, and what is this place? When we talk about it, I can talk about Lapovo Free Zone, and Kragujevac, and Užice, I don't have time, it's a very complex topic. Here, go ahead, bring foreign investors. You're afraid of Chinese and Russian capital. Chinese companies, they were your colleagues with me a month ago in Sudjoo, one of the largest park industries in China, ready to come to Serbia and invest free customs zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14165	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14166	Right on the line, repeatedly mentioned. You see that is the problem of Serbia and those who keep saying we don't need foreign investors. Serbia's potentials are much greater than its needs for the goods and services produced. The problem is that production and chain are broken. Something during sanctions, and most of it during privatisation until 2012, so we've lost not the product, but we don't have the potential to place what's being made. And then there was a complete collapse, and that's why we need those who have markets and who would like to invest in Serbia to, of course, realize their economic interest, and we also have our economic interest through the employment of our capacities and resources that we have. I don't mind and I'm not disgusted by any kind of capital coming from any country. I can only say that in Kostolc, which is about 11 or 12 kilometers from Pogorec, which belongs to the territory of the town of Pogorec, a brand-new block and a thermal power plant that is Chinese technology, with a Chinese loan, which is very favourable, and I can say that Serbia will have the most modern thermal power plant in Europe. So we want to cooperate with everyone. It's our right. We don't want to determine or block anyone's capital. It's our interest to cooperate with everyone. The problem is that we create conditions in the state, that we can attract as many investors as possible, and that's why we're passing these laws. When those road stories are attacked, I end up with my colleague Marinkovic, just a little bit, when you don't have a road, you don't have a traffic infrastructure, no one wants to come to you to invest, even those people who were born in some settlements that don't have an asphalt road, leave these settlements, and imagine you bring someone away and you don't have a road, rail or port.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14167	Thank you. Replica, Natasha Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14168	You, colleague Arsic, mixed me up with someone. You replicate to me and say something that has absolutely nothing to do with my exposure. I even said the opposite of what you were talking about, which is that you are not able to use the potentials and opportunities offered on your own like this, because the new Chinese route and the project in the Balkans and Europe is exactly giving you the opportunity I was talking about, which is that in these customs free zones, through a company that would open new jobs, it is precisely exporting goods to the market where they are already doing it, and Serbia is ideal for them because it is not in the EU and, regardless of what they will never say openly, they are extremely happy about it. Thanks to them we have and, yesterday, did we confirm the additional loan for Corridor 10, we will also have a new Railway, a complete infrastructure and thanks to the very credits of our friends, such as Azerbaijan's loan to complete Corridor 11. Don't replace thesis. What has arrived, please, so large and large of your friends from the west, you have already given them like Dinkic in Kragujevac 10,000 euros for each new job. Russia doesn't blackmail us. In this way our offered foreign investments, also our Chinese friends. Therefore, when you speak to me or to any of the Serbian radicals, then read the fact and what we stand for, which is certainly not the collapse of Serbia's further entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14169	Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. I'd like us to be gentlemen and close. Veroljub Arsic, from the post: I will be brief. Please, just for a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14170	If this government is incapable of solving problems and dragging investors into Serbia, here, what about "Sartid"? The biggest problem of the Serbian economy. She solved this government, she's no one else. I think we just disagree on one thing. This government wants to co-operate with both the EU and the Russian Federation, and China, and America, and other countries, with all those who want to cooperate with us. While the other side says no, just cooperate with Russia and China. We're not exactly in that situation that we can condition that much. We can only not let ourselves be humiliated and nothing more. So we cooperate with everyone because it's in the first place, in our interest. I am not disgusted with any capital that comes to Serbia, which opens new jobs. Stay out of this story – one job is paid 10 000 euros and a salary of 200, 300 euros. This money, every penny that is invested in a new job, is multipled in traffic and income. You're free to hit yourself on the head. It may be better to hit the wall, but when you pay the worker a salary, that round doesn't end, but that worker goes and spends that money on some good or service, or the one who sells that good and the one who makes that good and the one who does the service, too, earns the salary and so on in the circle. Those who don't understand that economic logic shouldn't even be dealing with the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14171	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zarko Micin, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14172	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. I don't think the amendment should be accepted. I would disagree that we do not know to exploit the potentials that have free zones in Serbia. That's what we just did in Novi Sad and expanded the free zone in Novi Sad, and that's why we have two new investments in Novi Sad today by American companies Lir and Delf and already employ 3,000 people, and they will employ 5,000 people. It was a great pleasure for me to be part of the team of Mayor Milos Vučević, and I must say that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has been very helpful in this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14173	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14174	Here's a colleague of yours from Novi Sad, it's a good thing you got involved in the discussion and there's more of us to share arguments. So, 11 acres of free, defined land under the Law on Free Customs Areas is in the area of Novi Sad. I didn't say it wasn't done at all, but it's not enough. Before that, “Delfi, ” remember, were in Raca before “Jura ” came. Is that right? There was a strategic contract of the then "Electro" Race with the company "Delfi". As for counterpart Arsic, Mr Arsic, if it hadn't been for our president to raise it to the highest possible level through a press conference and a public address, you would have given "Esmark" the Smederjevska "Zelezar" to the public this way. It's already been arranged. At the last minute, you're under such pressure, and first of all because of the fact that he gave us the information that would rob us... Kirby put you up to it. So we were able to stop it. Our Chinese friends, because there I was about a month ago, they recognized their interest on that new Chinese road and decided to invest in Serbia precisely because of our traditional, friendly relationships, precisely because of the resources we have, quality labour force and because of the fact that this is just the first project and start in their further investment investments that will be defined in the next, I believe, not just years, but decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14175	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14176	Well, Prime Minister Alexander Vucic has good enough results to share something with you. Here's a part of his success for you. I don't know what you'd do without his results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14177	Thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, the National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of DS. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14178	This Article 196 also refers to the work of free zones and free warehouses and specifically talks about the accommodation of goods in a free zone or a free warehouse and says that this storage is not time-limited, but for certain goods, referred to in Article 191 of Article 1. - which is covered by specific measures of agricultural policy, special accommodation time limits may be set. And it's logical, of course, and it has to be, but we have to link this to Article 193 where you predicted that the customs authority could review the goods and carry out other customs controls on the goods, it's written earlier, which enters, exits or stays in a free zone or a free warehouse. Now you've just written that the customs authority can examine the goods, and you've erased that it can carry out other customs controls on the goods. And that's not good. It is not good and simply can't understand why you don't want to carry out all the customs controls on a slave who enters, exits or stays in a free zone or a free warehouse. Of course, and this where it is intended that, in order to carry out the examination referred to in Article 4, in fact, this earlier position will be the person designated by the customs authority and delivered to that authority, or shall make available to him a copy of the transport document which must monitor the goods entering or leaving the free zone. But yet it remains in the context of this last position -- why did you delete the possibility of conducting a customs procedure, measuring customs controls on goods entering or staying in a free zone or in a free warehouse?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14179	Thank you. On Article 26 of the amendment, the National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, the National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14180	Article 27 actually refers to Article 199 of the basic law and talks about domestic goods covered by specific agricultural policy measures, and this material is already regulated by Article 196 and you are here talking about procedures that can be taken without special authorisation, and they relate to measures for agricultural products, and I don't know why you are now, instead of - these procedures, you wrote - these actions. These actions are not exactly in line with the Serbian language. When it comes to agricultural policy, i.e. agricultural products and storage policies on agricultural customs, when it comes to those products exported from Serbia, then it would be good indeed to focus maximum and to make maximum use of the free trade we have with the Russian Federation and then this warehouse should not tell you so. The goods would only be transitable, but the real transit, not the one you just said was a transit in internal traffic. All that is produced in Serbia and everything else that can be produced if the state is more concerned with solving the problem of the Serbian peasant, anything that could be produced could be sold without any problem on the Russian market and would then certainly be applied to this law with these short deadlines when it comes to the storage of agricultural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14181	On the 28th amendment, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenković, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of DS. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14182	This article refers, in fact, to Article 200 of the Basic Act, and it speaks of the special conditions of foreign goods and domestic goods which can be used or used in free zones and free warehouses and here in the first position of this Member states that this is except in the cases referred to in Articles 198 and 199 of this Act and then you are not challenged in any particular case – in the context of the procedure and the form of the conduct of these two members. It's a truly completely naharadic structure of words, and it doesn't mean anything, nor does anything fundamentally change in this law. This law also provides, i.e. this Article, the position of 1 of this Article does not exclude the use or consumption of goods whose place is in free circulation or temporary import in order to have the necessary effect of applying import duties or measures within the framework of agricultural or commercial policy, unless the provisions relating to supplies are otherwise prescribed. In that case, no declaration of free circulation or temporary import is required unless the quantity of goods is withdrawn from the quota or tariff maximum. We think this isn't good and it shouldn't be and in this case it's necessary to have a declaration, that it's necessary to make a declaration. Nothing can be found in the free zone, import-exports etc. in a free warehouse without specific documentation without certain declarations, etc. It's just not for playing anywhere in the world, so it can't and shouldn't be in our free zones either.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14183	On Article 29 of the amendment, the National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, the National MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJjiljana Mihajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14184	This applies to Article 203 of the basic law, in fact to the customs value and the calculation of the customs debt, and this is one of those members that absolutely did not need to change, because what you have changed is neither essential nor formally affecting this Article 203. The first two attitudes you did not touch anything, and then in the last you say – if the goods were the subject of the usual treatment referred to in Article 183. - the declarant may request, if such action has been authorised by the customs authority in accordance with Article 138, that the amount of import duties be determined on the basis of the type of goods, customs value and quantity of goods on which the amount would be determined at the time of the customs debt, and then I do not know why you are erasing - determined in accordance with Article 251 and you are writing - from Article 251? I don't know why you're introducing some new fashion, some new nomenclature? What was the problem with our current regulations, I formally say, of course, there are many problems essentially in the laws that have been passed in recent years or decades in Serbia, but you really don't need to introduce some new talk, some radical expressions. And this is how bad your laws are, even when you're making them look like this with these bad expressions, then really a man wonders what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14185	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14186	It is Article 204, dealing with domestic goods subject to agricultural policy measures. There have already been words in these previous articles about this type of product, and here in the first position it was said that domestic goods from a member of a previous member who regulates it, in fact in 191 where we did not have any objections, this law, which is subject to agricultural policy measures, can be placed in one of the procedures or can be authorised to use it, if by entering a free zone or a free warehouse, meets the conditions prescribed for exporting such goods. This was quite enough and comprehensive. Then you say again that in the proposal to amend this member, that for domestic goods, from that member now 101, which is subject to agricultural policy measures, which is located in a free zone or a free warehouse, the treatment or use provided for by the regulations under which the goods are. No one's living this life understands what you're trying to say. This is a conclusion, not a sentence – because of accommodation in a free zone or a free warehouse. And now, you get the impression that you're actually writing like this on purpose, so it might be easier to manipulate certain provisions, and then to interpret someone like this, something like that, because I don't know why a concise and precise legal provision would change someone, be god with us, text, and you haven't essentially changed anything, and you'd say and you don't want to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14187	Thank you. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Marija 109/2JČ/BM Janjšević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14188	I thank the chairman. I am pleased that Minister Antic has returned, as a member of the government who wrote in attitude 1. says he is deleted. Like the next member we're going to talk about where it says it too - deletes. So the minister has twice in a week puts himself in a position to apologize. You apologized to DS, and I think now the Dwreys deserve an apology. Especially since this is "expunged" is nothing wrong with politics, I think it's very effective - you're erased as a rubber. You must know it better than I do, because even if you're part of some interest groups and you're having some affairs, suitcases, etc., then you certainly can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14189	My colleague, please speak by amendment. This really doesn't make sense. This is parliament. Don't act like this. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14190	Dear People's MPs, therefore, I mean, this is now an outcast, to say, twisting my words. I am absolutely behind what I said in the previous presentation. In this legislative project where the Government changes a large number of solutions, individual formulations are deleted, and all the amendments you have submitted have only one formulation and all our solutions are your amendments only the words are deleted, and these other remarks I will not really comment on. I'll take it into consideration that it's 07.05 hours and you're tired and I'll forgive you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14191	I thank the ministers. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjšević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14192	There's a lot going on in this law. We suggest that you delete what you propose to delete, and it would be best to delete these previous half-decades, even these previous 16 years, and also these previous 26 years, but unfortunately, it can't. Well, unfortunately, we can't erase what's happened in the past, but we can turn around to make a better future. I hope that the citizens of Serbia have the will to the future, to remove this government as soon as possible, but well that is my opinion, of course I have the right to it and I hope it will happen soon. You see the liberalisation of trade, the descent, the elimination of customs, as well as the overrated course of dinars will shut down and a large part of domestic production plants. This is a key problem for Serbia. Now, maybe someone thinks, like Honorable counterpart Arsic, there he is, I have to mention, that he might answer, because I really like to have a discussion with him, maybe he thinks they don't give incentives to foreign investors in Serbia, but that foreign investors pay the country 10,000 euros so they can hire someone. Maybe he thinks these people work in these factories for several thousand euros, but they don't work unfortunately. It only exists in Mr. Arsic's imagination. I keep asking the question – which country has developed from foreign investment? You can't tell me that and you can't give me an answer. Only by domestic investment, Mr. Arsic, and we need to encourage domestic investment, to encourage their ability to move forward technologically, to develop their own production. I am sorry that there is no fellow Djukanovic who once impressed me, recently, on the subject of the airport, talked about IMT and showed that the SNS does not know what is needed ___ Serbia, but good. Well, at least there's Mr. Arsic and he'll certainly have all my shortcomings to clarify to me, to interpret to me, to explain to me, and I'm sure I'll have a lot to learn from the SNS demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14193	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14194	Right on the line, Mr. Chairman. I know what the salaries are for both domestic and foreign investors. What's the problem, is you keep mentioning foreign investors and having the same conditions. All the same terms. So, both foreign and domestic. The problem is, we don't have enough homework, we can't create them. Should the state be an employer? I don't think so. It turned out in a system that we had until the 1990s, that it wasn't exactly the happiest solution. So the state can't be an employer. Now, if you don't have enough domestic industrialists, what are you going to do? Well, to invite someone else to invest in your country. Will Serbia be developing industrially? Yes, he will. I'm absolutely sure of it, because now is a hard time, but we have to start solving the problem. The sooner we start solving him, the sooner we can solve him, the easier it'll be to solve him. They'll start here a lot more seriously to deal with business and domestic investors. What was the biggest problem so far? Because they were mostly in services here, so the biggest investor was Miskovic, who bought "Maxie", "Maxie" sold "Deleza" and showed it as an investment of two billion euros, I think. That's what they're saying. So it's not an investment, investment is new jobs. New created value. It's a process and it can't be solved in a year or two. But we've started to solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14195	Thank you. My colleague Janjušević is in the system, but you don't have time. Your task force no longer has time. Well, you don't have time, you don't have time, I'll explain it to you, you can answer the next one. Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14196	A few words relating to this Article 218 to which this amendment applies and which refers to goods which are not subject to import duties. Question for the Proposer, why did you erase the position of the first one that was valid, here's from the adoption of this law. How long has that been? Ten years. Import duties were not paid, inter alia, to new equipment not manufactured in the country, which is imported for the new or expansion of existing production, modernization of production, the introduction of new, or the modernisation of existing technology, other than passenger, motor vehicles and gambling apparatus. Why'd you delete this now? This is where you drill, swear that you want to help develop the economy, develop your domestic economy, in fact, you're just ready to give money to strangers. There you give 10, 15, 20 grand for the job, as much as anyone asks, and here you lift the import tax on these products that would certainly modernize someone's production that would help someone start doing something to some business of ours, from Serbia. Of course, she spoke to Natasha, and we don't mind those who come from the white world, but not because Vukic tells them that there's the cheapest workforce here, so he gives them 10, 15 thousand euros per job and then they're like some investment, like the one in the flag, but I'll tell you about it next amendment, I have to tell you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14197	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković, Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the DS. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14198	This amendment refers to the original member of the 281st is the conduct of a customs authority related to intellectual property rights, but a contract with the flag could also be called because the contract, which was released yesterday or the day before yesterday, freed all charges, has managed to damage the state of Serbia so much, that it is astounding. It is even more amazing that the current Vucic government, which came after the democratic government, has not changed anything in Serbia in this regard. I know, you would immediately say that it's a founding contract and that it can't be changed because of these foreign partners, etc. but I don't know how much the public knows, you ministers probably know, although the contract is secret, of course every secret is revealed, and it has been discovered, that the "Fiat" for the employees of the flag doesn't give a single penny to the Serbian budget on behalf of taxes and contributions to earnings. Why? Because the contract agreed to pay those funds out of the flag budget, and every month two days or a day before they pay off the earnings from the budget, the flag is paid and those workers pay their salaries, and the same amount they got tomorrow is returned to the budget and the round is turned around, and they are not the only five-man in the name of the contribution and taxes they don't give to Serbia's budget today, and you, Vukic and the others, keep your mouth shut and hide that state secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14199	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14200	Once again, our amendment is deleted, and on your proposal, the article is deleted. Just long enough to realize there's a lot of that kind of wipeout. You here have just taken away the opportunity to import technology and equipment to be used in the manufacturing process without customs duty, and it is not produced in Serbia, and with intellectual property, you remove the right to appeal, so take good care of the interest of the Serbian economy. I'd like to point out one important fact that you keep ignoring and you can't understand. I don't know if it makes sense for me to bring you any literature because I love discussions with you, do you know that 20% of gross national income is directly participating in the country in OECD countries. You're the only one who says the state needs to be completely removed from all economic flows. That's completely insane. No one here is saying that it should be returned in times of communism, but when you mention this SFRY, you need to know that there were serious economic giants at the time. There was one IMT, one IMR, one PKB, one First Petolet and many other companies that were worldly giants of that time, which were only, by war, sanctions and robbery privatisation, which was made by the dictatorship of the same EU just to kill these companies, to prevent competition, not only in this market, but in some foreign markets, completely devastated and ruined Serbia's industry. It's one essential and key problem. It is not only "Fiat" that does not pay any of the taxes to the Republic of Serbia, so many other companies do not pay. Are you telling me that "Vip Telekom" came here to be a mobile operator and to make so many losses. How many losses are there? Let's take a look at the final accounts. Let's look at the final accounts of a bunch of these foreign companies that got a position here, not just those 10,000 euros, but a bunch of other things and a bunch of other benefits. Everyone's got negative balances, they're just bringing money out of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14201	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14202	I'd like to see how they get the money out of the country. This was possible until 2012 with one, I can say, the law written for Miroslav Miskovic, the Foreign Exchange Act, to amnesty for all those speculations that were made in 2008, 2009 and 2010. It seems to me October-November 2011. Now, as some like to praise it, income in OECD countries is 20% state-owned. Believe me, there's no less in our house either. Look at the income of the real Elektroprivreda of Serbia. These are those strategic branches that no country will give up. Don't take it as a parameter. I like this concept very much when someone says IMT, IMR, "dragon" etc. It wasn't supposed to be destroyed, but it didn't even have a chance to survive in what form it existed. You can go as fast as you like, Joseph Broz Tito did not make the flag to export cars, but to not import them, we do not make IMT and IMR to export tractors, but not to import them, and the Dragon also like agricultural machines, not to count further. That market that belonged to the entire SFRY fell apart. It's the beginning of the collapse of these commercial giants. So I'm saying, they could have been preserved, but not in the form that you think they could. It was no longer sustainable and it was not possible. To discuss the economy in such an easy way, I understand, a colleague is a young man, thinks he can do anything, but when he starts to solve the problem, then he'll see what it really looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14203	Thank you. My friend Nogo is in the system, but you have no right, he didn't mention you. He had a very correct discussion on the amendment to what you... Thank you so much for understanding. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14204	I would have to point out that IMT and IMR and how they had a chance to survive, in a different form, but only Serbia needs 400,000 tractors and it's the best tractor for Serbian conditions, and I'm not saying that it can be exported, say, to the African market, where and how it was present. (Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Is that an amendment? That is according to the amendment. It's all according to the amendment, Mr. Orlic, don't worry. Mr. Arsic doesn't mind, I don't know why you're complaining, why you're getting upset. We're just having a constructive discussion and we deserve it, since we've been here 24 hours. I think this is just for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. I would ask you a question – do you know how it developed, say, Japanese "Toyota" and how it came to be? Also, do you know how South Korea developed? If you know that, good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14205	I'm asking you to really get back to the amendment. I let this go first around the IMT, it was fine. Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, on what basis? It's an amendment. [[Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Right to replica, you heard the name.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14206	I'm going to use this time anyway to refer to what we're supposed to hear by amendment, and we're not. You seduce as a replica or you don't have to, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14207	I'll be correct, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14208	There's no problem. Therefore, it is not acceptable for someone to consider that sitting in the National Assembly Hall alone deserves not to be followed by the Rules of Procedure and that the Rules of Procedure do not, therefore, propose or explain what should be done in this room. So, being in this room is both duty and obligation, but acting in accordance with the seat of the MP goes with that hand in hand, not to say in the package. Who is unaware of this, he completely missed out when he expressed his desire to deal with the work of the MP. Though, to be honest, he missed everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14209	Thank you. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Milan Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the DS. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14210	It's about Article 288, selling customs goods, prescribing terms and the way they sell. This was also prescribed by the existing law, that the sale of customs goods could be carried out, i.e. after the fulfilment of the conditions laid down by this law, as a rule of public sale and that the customs authority could immediately sell, without public sale, easily perishable goods and live animals held in accordance with Article 298. You've been making some changes here, but this is certainly an interesting topic, first of all, selling these customs goods by public sale. It is common knowledge of how many malfeasances there have been and how many today there are in the case of the sale of customs goods, how many stores are supplied to that customs goods in some smuggling tours with warehouse heads, customs officers, etc., how many cars are sold in this way. So this has to be much more serious and regulated in law, and much more serious to do this job on its own. You have now said in the amended law that the sale of goods granted for the benefit of the State or taken away in accordance with the member, which is this customs goods, you are now somewhat like embellishing the name, being done again by the public sale rule. Now, that's the problem. It's not the rule, it's the only thing that has to be done. To whom do you leave the opportunity to determine whether the goods will be sold by public sale or not? Instead of changing it, you're garnering the law with unnecessarily words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14211	Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivković, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr Milan Ševarlić, and joint MPs of the DS. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14212	This is Article 295 and is referred to as fines which will be fined by a legal person if he does not keep the documentation during the prescribed period and if he fails to transport the goods through and in the manner determined by the customs authority within the time limit. You have changed the current amount of 100,000 dinars by 200,000 dinars as a fine for a legal person, which in this case is not an adequate punishment. You normally like to cut such high fines, especially for natural persons, and also for legal persons in certain situations, but when it comes to keeping, or not keeping customs records, it really deserves a more serious sentence. I remind you again of what I started in the recent amendment, serious malfeasances happen when it comes to customs, when it comes to selling customs goods. When it comes to exports from Serbia, it must also be taken into account and penalties must be tightened seriously. You remember how many export incidents were made towards the Russian Federation, when pig skins went to the Russian market instead of the Russian place, when Polish apples went instead of Serbian apples, and co-operation with the Russian Federation, trade co-operation and the agreement were compromised. So this isn't a joke, people. This has to be seriously regulated, and this has to be done in a very serious and safe way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14213	Thank you. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Does anyone want a word? The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14214	Yes, we continue, since it's the same subject, the same members. In fact, it's also about criminal provisions relating to customs offences, and I'm only going to finish what I started to explain the previous amendment, so in this case and in these cases the penalties need to be more serious. You predict, for example, that a fine of 100,000 dinars will be fined by an entrepreneur for a violation of Article 1, which is the position where you said that a fine of 200,000 dinars will punish a legal person if he does not keep the documentation in the prescribed period. Excuse me, and the entrepreneur is a legal person, or an entrepreneur's company is a legal person. Why would he pay the fine of 100,000 dinars, and this other legal face of 200,000 dinars, and it's the exact same offense. It's actually about opening up the possibilities of malfeasance, tampering with customs, etc. in this way. What's been a pain in the last few years in Serbia and if you're really ready to do something, to really put something on healthy feet, then that's when you've already changed this law, to do it in a really more serious way. You've had no idea how many amendments to the law here, 38 or 40, I don't know how many members there were, but basically, this is probably the last amendment, so in two sentences to say, essentially, you haven't changed anything here. Something was just some make-up. I guess the European Commission will say -- well, you've been doing something, you've been doing this law all night, you'll be praised, they'll say -- there's everyone, who works day and night. Of course, you didn't say the word, but it doesn't matter to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14215	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić and joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to the 39th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14216	I thank the chairman. I'd just like to be tied to this member. Declaration of compliance with European Union rules. Watch it now, it almost sounds like a joke. Therefore, the deadline for achieving full compliance with European Union rules until full membership is reached in the European Union. Furthermore, the compliance table does not need to be filled in unless the domestic regulation transposes the provisions of a secondary source of EU law, etc., so we have a question – whether the sources of European Union law mentioned above have been translated into Serbian. The answer is no. So, since it also says that co-operation with the European Union and the involvement of consultants in the making of regulations and their opinion on compliance in fact means that we have been written by consultants. Let me add that the Dvori really have nothing against co-operation with the European Union, with each Member State, but on an equal basis, not according to blackmail and to continued harmonisation according to their terms. They will respect us more, more Serbia will achieve if it reformes and advances itself, and never enters the European Union, and that means never to comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14217	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) (The Faith of Radeta, from the city: Yes. You don't have time. Your party has no more time. There is no authority, nor do you have this time that belongs to a foreigner. You can only answer as a proposal. You can do it on the next one. Now he's going where you're proposing. Just hold on a second, please. The National MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanović and joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14218	Yes, the final provisions, Article 40, and the announcement in this article that on the date of the application of the provisions of Articles 367 and 34 of this Law, the Board of Appeals of the Customs Administration will cease to work. This law, i.e. the basic law you are amending, did not give the impression that this Board of Appeals is a special body, a special body, but a commission within the Customs Administration. But from Article 2, where you say that on the day of the application of the provisions of this law, the Ministry of Finance will take over from the Board of Appeals Customs of Employees, Rights and Obligations, Objects and Archives with the condition of that day. So there was, after all, a special organ. It's like in that previous law, whether the Ministry of Finance is independent, so here you have estimated that it is, so the Ministry of Finance is going to do this job, but we don't think there was a need to move it out of the Customs Administration. Of course, it was certainly supposed to be a two-stage procedure and it's not at all controversial, but believe me, it's going to be very dilute when it goes to the ministry, when it's forming there again some new service, someone new that you like to say an independent body that's out of your mind in the ministry, so independent. But you're very good at propagating it, and you immediately said that the cases in which the proceedings were not closed through the Board of Appeal would be taken over by the Ministry in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14219	The 40th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Saša Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, and joint MPs of the DS. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14220	This amendment to Article 41 is a logical trail of previous amendments because we have asked our amendments to delete all the proposed members, or in other words, we have thus shown our relationship to this bill and have actually shown that I do not think this law should be passed. In addition, it is interesting that we are also discussing this bill under those 27 united laws and decisions united in one item of the agenda and that this was an emergency procedure. Then you say, regardless of such urgency and on this occasion—the discussion and these night amendments, etc., this law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, which, thank God, is the only, I suppose, thing fully constitutional in this bill, but is applied 30 days from the date of entry into force, except for provisions 3, 6, 7 and 34 that have been applied since 1 July 2017. Nowhere through the law, here we have passed all the members, there is no obligation to do anything within 30 days to be a condition for the application of this law. Then it's completely unclear why it had to be so back-to-back, why it had to be an emergency procedure, why we couldn't have done this law as nicely, as at one point in the agenda to talk about it in principle, so there might be different amendments, to erase something, to sort something out, etc. What pain has made you try to hide this law? It's just incomprehensible why you do this, how God doesn't command.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14221	Thank you very much. MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14222	As usual, you delay the application of your own laws, though, this time only until July 2017, do not delay until July 2018, but well, progress, no matter. We're adopting this by emergency procedure, we've been doing 24 hours, all night long, so you can delay application and start applying since July. That's probably how you know the logic of how you've been doing this agenda and why you've organized this session like this. This also serves as a privilege to those who govern the National Assembly. Simply, it's the character and image of their government. Obviously, someone is afraid of fulfilling his legal obligation to come before the congregation and answer questions. I don't know why Alexander Vukic is such a coward not to come and answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14223	Replica, Veroljub Arsic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14224	You know, calling Alexander Wolf a coward is often a reckless move. Come on, in 2014, we started fiscal consolidation measures. We had an election in 2016. You're still turning the mantra on reduced pensions and salaries in the public sector. There were elections between them, and in those elections, you're beaten to death, and the next you'll be beaten. Is the man a coward who withdraws unpopular measures to save his country, the country's economy, or is he a coward who has owed the country on an unreal basis to raise pensions and wages in the public sector? It's you with whose help you entered this assembly along with the American Ambassador. Is it cowardice to call a man a coward who isn't here? I think it's cowardice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14225	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14226	Here, at 15 to eight, after all the night that my colleague Nedimovic and I spent here in parliament, with absolute respect for fellow MPs who were here and who participated in this public debate, I must note that I am two MPs from the Dvori group, there is no one from that part of the opposition. And what cowardice are you talking about? Well, you escaped the debate on these laws with two ministers in the government, and you mention any cowardice. Well, if you had the courage, you'd be staying with us tonight about these laws, not calling people who aren't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14227	Let's move on. We're closing a circle of replicas. You're the one who caused the replicas. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Moving to point 13. – Proposal for a LAW ON THE ASSESSMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENTS YOU have adopted amendments submitted by MPs and reports of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Chapter 1, the name of Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, together with the correction of the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, and MP Branka Stamenković, together submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14228	In order not to repeat the principle of debate, we have indeed covered all the members of this bill with amendments, with the aim of convincing you, if possible, independently of the order that came from the EU, that such a law must be passed, because we believe that this law is not necessary at all. Look, in the title of the law, this is a bill on evaluators of the value of immovableity. It would be the same as if a law on value evaluators of second-hand cars were now passed. That seems ridiculous and pointless to you. In conditions where Serbia has said that the market economy is a basic form of economic thinking, where there is a conflict of offers and demand or a meeting or a kiss on the market, it is unacceptable to impose some who should be on one side and on the other. That's one reason. Another much larger reason is the field of application where these dilbers should be shown, and they should be shown in two, three areas, but all these areas are of private character, especially that point 1 in Article 3. I think we're going into something that's not allowed to interfere. We don't need to interfere on the market about these things, but since it's about to end, and we have a lot of amendments, I'm going to try to bring out our basic thesis and try to convince you to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14229	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14230	There's no need to be afraid of giving words to the opposition MPs. We're here, we're not running away from the debate, and we've been here all night. There are MPs of the SRS, so don't tell the truth. Deleting this member because it is contrary to some other law, you believe, means that an estimate of the value of immovableity can only be carried out in accordance with this law and that it is mandatory. You see, this provision is contrary to legal regulations, for example. With the bankruptcy law, which stipulates that in the event of an assessment of bankruptcy, a judicial expert or the Law on Judicial Experts can be engaged, on the basis of which judicial experts act. So, in procedures where their assessment of immovableity is sought. So, we don't think you came up with this well, that is, the very reasoning of the law that you're saying you're passing this law for the sake of banks. I asked that question persistently – how much more to benefit the banks? I was happy to see you pass one of these laws. However, when I saw the explanation and saw the content itself, I must admit that I was disappointed. Here in this Article 1, you only provide for one such provision, you'd have to do a little bit of agreeing to the other legal norms, and agree to this legislative proposal. Now the question arises – why are you bringing this? You were forced by the bank, perhaps by the American ambassador. Banks and American ambassadors probably made you bring this, because how else do you explain the fact that you are not responding to, which is that 35,000 euros in Vukic pays Montgomery monthly, eight years pays him a racket. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14231	I have to turn you off on this. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14232	They saw it. You know, they've got really good scouts, pioneers, whatever the Dvora guys are doing, so they can see what Alexander Vukitch is doing. Indeed, it delights me that they will do so in an instant, as it pleases them, and as it would sound to them. We've had in the last four or five years the bankruptcy of two banks. They were both state-owned. One is Agrobank, and the other is Vojvodina Development Bank. What's going on? First, the state guarantees all stakes up to 50,000 euros. From Serbia's budget, I hope that he listens to a fellow lecture from the economy, the 50,000 euros is paid. Why do we have to pay out of the budget? Because court evaluators and bank appraisers blew up property that was being loaded so that some team would raise loans that they would never repay. Now someone's saying it's the banks. No, it's the citizens of Serbia. So, only because of the citizens of Serbia. The bank can put bad loans at risk both itself and the Republic of Serbia, which has issued a work permit and which will cover all its losses up to 50,000 euros. (Srdian Nogo, from the place: What is Jorgenka Tabakovic doing? ) He is not Jorgenka Tabaković's evaluator. So, the Central Bank has informed us that every three years an estimate of the value of the asset under the burden is done. Do you mind? Don't say that. I'm surprised by lawyers who want the state involved in the bonding relationship between the two parties. Which doesn't say how they did it, say, for those loans in the Swiss francs, in Hungary. Yes, Hungary bought the debt because she had money. We don't have them, but as you can see, we're a legal state and since we can't as a Parliament to enter into a bond relationship between the two parties in the process, the court can go in, which it does, and that's true. We don't interfere with bonding. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: the National Bank? Neither can the Central Bank. He can't. The only one who can interfere in a bond relationship is the court. Don't make it up. How did you get that degree?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14233	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Members 2 and Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the second amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and MP Branka Stamenković. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14234	The bank has the right to the capital and interest. Don't tell the truth. You're kidding with over-indebted people, like you're kidding with pensioners. You know, cutting pensions is a serious thing, and I wouldn't joke about it, and I wouldn't joke about people who are over-indebted to banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14235	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14236	I'm not kidding either, but I don't do populism to get votes. We've had amendments here and additions to the Consumers of Financial Services Act. We've got as much as the state could intervene in the way it has the right of the Parliament. Don't talk about the Central Bank getting involved. He's got no right. The central bank takes care of the legality of the bank's business, its liquidity and the credit value that the bank has on our market. So that's what he's taking care of. In the bonding relationship between the two parties and the states, neither the bank can interfere, but only the court. I really don't understand what you want from us. The only thing the state can interfere with is to buy out citizens' debts, but then you can't, but you have to buy out of all of them. Do we have money for something like that? We don't. Don't make it up. One more thing. In 2012, the interest on dinar loans was between 32% and 36%, and today, with a foreign exchange clause of 12 to 15%, today is 7.5%, without security, and then you say that we cut salaries and pensions. We didn't cut everybody's pensions. Some are bigger than ever, and that's about a million and 200,000 people, but right now -- is it better to have interest rates with 30% or 35% on the dinar stakes, that we have on the foreign exchange clause 12 to 15%, that we have inflation 10 to 12%, that we owe the state or through all the interest cuts that the population has now suffered to them? So every citizen who had a loan, at least 100,000 dinars, is left with 20,000 dinars for him for his own purposes. Who doesn't understand that economic logic, can't even understand why the SNS... (Zoran Krasic, from town: Time. Time is great outside, Mr. Krassic. ... Why despite all unpopular measures, the SNS won with an absolute majority in the elections held only six or seven months ago. The result counts, not promises, not demagogues. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14237	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14238	This is a great moment for you, Mr. Chairman, to finally give you the right to a replica, and it's really great. I don't know how much insult it takes to put it on the expense of an MP so he can get the right to a replica, but well, he should put it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14239	I wouldn't allow insults. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14240	Let's set it up like this. I don't agree with anything the previous speaker said, but let's see what he's proposing. Courts that should, for example, be. to solve it. The Polish courts have recently resolved and have done the same thing I insist and keep repeating. They declared the provisions of the contract in the Swiss francs, and they turned the contract into a unambiguous loan in the evils. Field courts, please. Why don't the courts in Serbia do that? I can't. Why can't I? Because of the influence. You know the effect. When the Councilor of the President of the Republic makes a legal opinion and that legal opinion goes to the judge, which judge can make a different verdict? When Dragisa Slepcevic says in front of 300 lawyers her legal position, he is attacked by the same law professors and many who are tied to banks. There are people at law school who don't agree with that, but those who took money from banks can't and can't. Let's move on. The BIA director represents a large number, i.e. his former law firm, and while he was formerly a lawyer, he represents a large number of business banks and directly interferes and influences the work of judicial authorities. So direct. Here, have Alexander Djordjevic come out and say that's not true. I gave him a specific case when he filed a fake ID on his office colleague, an annex contract that wasn't signed by a party in the case of Piraeus Bank and a company of companies. He was still a lawyer, and in 2016 when he was BIA director, the same case was repeated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14241	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. He just said what time it was outside. You don't really have any basis. No, I don't. Here you go. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14242	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Krasic is constantly distracting me, and here she is, now a colleague of the Verica. I answered Mr. Krasic, who kept throwing me -- time, because he thought I only had two minutes. We have enough MPs to give me enough time to talk. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: You stole the mandates. Here, now he calls me a thief. Oh, sir, I gave you that term in the elections and in 2012, 2014 and 2016, why didn't you take it? Now let's get back to the courts, so as far as I know, our courts have begun to judge. Here's a judicial verdict for a loan like that. What? They've begun to judge. The appeals court in Novi Sad confirmed the Swiss franc loan ruling. Why don't you say so? You know that. You know very well, but you won't say. You're politically unwell. That's the reason. It is easiest to say – agency director, director of this, director of this, prime minister, the prime minister. I say you can charge, but the result always counts, always counts. So, when you failed to beat us when we were cutting wages and pensions, how do you think you can beat us now that we're paying back these salaries and pensions and we're increasing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14243	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, he rejected this amendment. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on - Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. ) I would very much like to give you a replica, but there really is no basis. Neither were you offended by Mr Arsic, nor was his replica and his discussion focused on your discussion, therefore, on some misreading of your discussion. So I'm asking you to understand. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić and Mr Goran Cabradi submitted to the 2nd amendment. At the title of Article 3rd and Article 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delić, joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and MP Branka Stamenković. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14244	We've sent this whole bill to the amendments and it's proposed that one member at a time be deleted. Krasic said when he spoke about Article 1. what are the basics of our remarks, but here it is when it comes to Article 3 that talks about the application of this law, he says that the provisions of this law apply to the estimates of the value of the immovable property being carried out for needs and now what is crucial, which we want to talk about through the whole law, that the provisions of this law are applied to the conclusion of the loan secured by the mortgage and the conclusion of other transactions, financial institutions secured by mortgage. So, a mortgage-provided loan agreement, you predict that you license an appraiser of value and that he interferes with that relationship between two persons. You know very well that everything we've tried to license that something hasn't yielded some of the results from this licensed minister of your former bankruptcy director to any other so-called so-called. I'm an expert. It is also something that is the consequence of your journey to the EU and from there you get so far I don't know what the concepts are, and what is the purpose of who will even license these people, who will give them lectures, what they will take, which is why they will be the ones who will be evaluators of the value of immovableity. All of this looks like notaries, executioners, these building managers...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14245	It's Radeta's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14246	It's just amazing how you're jumping out of the constitutional system and what nonsense you've got in your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14247	Thank you. Just to inform the People's MPs, the amendments submitted that they have exhausted the right to appear as applicants for two minutes. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Mr Goran Cabradi submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter II, the name above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group submitted together to the 4th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 5 and Article 5 of the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Dveri group submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS Parliament together submitted a name above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter III, the name above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović, Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Goran Chabradi together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 10th and of the 10th Amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS Parliament together submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 12 of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title of Article 13 of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 14 of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter 4, the name of Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of Article 16 of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Paputa, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 18 of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Na. Member of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and together by MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zoran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic and National MP Branka Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter 5, the name of Article 19 of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinovic and Zdrav Stankovic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 20 of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title of Article 21 of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 22 of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, with a correction, and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd Amendment together includes MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Article 23 of the 23rd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 23rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 24 of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 25 of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment together includes MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) By the name of Article 26 of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 27th and 27th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and together by MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th Amendment together includes MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title of Article 28 of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 28th Amendment together includes MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On chapter 6, the name of the 29th and the 29th amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs of the Dveri group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of Article 31 and of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 31st Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric, together with the MPs of the Dveri group, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 33 and of members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic, together with the MPs of the Dveri Group, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, and together MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević and other members of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VII, the name of the 35th and of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and together by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 36th and Article 36th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Goran Cabradi submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 37th and of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 38 and of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 39th and of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VIII, the name of the member of the 40th and member of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and together by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 41st and 41st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 42nd and of the 42nd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 42nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment 42. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of Article 43 and of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 44th and of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, together with the MPs of the Dveri Group, submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 45th and the 45th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, and joint MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group, and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic and MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter IX, the name of the member of the 46th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the DS Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 47th and of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukalovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 48th and of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 49th and the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were appointed by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 50th and the 50th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, and together by MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostić, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlić, Zoran Krasić, Verica Radeta, Petar Jojić, Zoran Žigmanov, Goran Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav LJubenović, Momcilo Mandić, Marko Milenković and Milorad Mirčić. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft laws in detail on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the SRJ based on the foreign currency savings of citizens. On the 1st amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs of the Dveri group, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the DS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, and the MPs of the DS, together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 2nd amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs of the Dveri group, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Marko Milenkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs of the Dveri Group, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on. You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostić, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlić, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Zoran Žigmanov, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Jovo Ostojić, Sreto Perić, Marina Ristić, Vladimir Đuić, Nikola Savić, Miroslav Stanković Đrić, Nemanja Šarović, Nemanja Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Milović, Milić and Božinović, Božilović, Božilović, Božalnović, Mučić, Mučić, Mird. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the Bill in particular on the proposal for a Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of outstanding foreign exchange savings from banks whose head office is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former Republic of SFRY. Under the name of Glava 1 and Article 1 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostić, Dragana Vesović, Miladin Ševarlić and together MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajović submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 4th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of Glava 2 and Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment are joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostic, Dragana Vesović, Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of Bosko Obradovic and the other MPs of the Dveri Group together, together with the MPs of Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, together with the MPs of the DS group together, submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of Glava 3 and Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Bosko Obradovic and other MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the Dveri group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Dvori Group together, together with the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, together with the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović, together with the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Dvori Group together, together with the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić, together with the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Dveri Group together and the MPs of Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenković, together with the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Dveri Group together, and the MPs of Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, together with the MPs of the DS Group of Parliament. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, and joint MPs of the DS Group of Members. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of Chapter 4 and Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, and joint MPs of the DS Group of Members. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name of Chapter 5 and Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 21st amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group of Dveri and together MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs of the Dveri group, and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Before I conclude the debate, I would just like to inform you that I am withdrawing the notice received by my colleague Lapcevic in yesterday's session. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm now setting a break to 1200 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14248	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the reason of needing us to approach and declare the draft laws we discussed yesterday and today. I'd like to inform you that she's the only one who's reported to the Rules of Procedure of MP Milena Bicanin that she won't be here. Dear Members of the National Assembly, since the conditions have been met, I would like to suggest that I confirm my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly for the vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's MP have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27 of Law No 5, determines the approval of the mandate of MP Ivana Dinic, elected from the Ivica Dačić – SPS, JS – Dragan Marković Palma. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the Report and the proposal of the competent committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ivana Dinic. Dear People's MPs, you are already here, I invite you to comply with Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, take an oath. “I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice.” I ask the People's Parliament to sign the text of the oath. I congratulate you on your behalf and on behalf of all MPs and MPs and I wish you success in our further joint work. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, given that it has already voted on points 16 to 27 of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, 28 December 2016, starting at 12.10 p.m. as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the existence of a voting quorum. Please insert identification cards into the MPs of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for our work today. I am putting on the vote of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees, in principle I am concluding the vote: for – 138, v – five, abstentions – no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic, the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of the People's Movement of Serbia, the MP group DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MPs Dejan Sukic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats Vojvodina Group – the Green Party submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Miroslav Nikolic Đuričić, five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—nine, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—nine, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was filed by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, 11 MPs from the Democratic Party, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – nine, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. I'm putting the vote on the bill amending the law on public media services, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—one against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—six, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – five, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – nine abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Public Media Services. I'm putting on the vote on the draft Law amending the Law on the Amendment to the Interim Irregular Irregular Irregular Payment Methods of Public Media Service Taxes, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – eight, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs of the Dvori Group, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group and joint MPs Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—six, against—there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for –three, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two against – no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic and Tomislav Ljubenović, 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group, seven MPs of the Parliament group "Dveri" and joint MPs Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—five, against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—one against—no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – seven, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, v – seven, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for the Public Media Service. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – six, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, MPs of the DS, MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic, MP Alexander Cabraj, MP Branka Stamenković and MP of the people, Zoran Zivkovic, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – four, against – one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of Parliament Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, MPs of the DS, MP Branka Stamenkovic and MP Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare that there are four abstentions for – 141 against – four abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the law on the regulation of courts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 143 against – five abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, MPs of the Dveri group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MP group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, MP group Dveri and DS MP group, the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović, MP group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, MP group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, Parliament group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, MP group Dveri and DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, in principle. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 139 against – one with abstentions. I find that the Assembly passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Mrko Milenkovic, Parliament group Dveri, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the LSDV Group – the Green Party submitted the amendment to Article 2. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, MP group Dveri, SDS, NPS, DS, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MP group Dveri, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, SDS, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment has been submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, SDS parliamentary group, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. No amendment accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, SDS, NPS and DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the 140 MPs joined the vote. No amendment accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 140-seat vote. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – no one has joined the vote from those present. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote : there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Marija Janjušević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 12th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 14th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 139 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I am concluding the vote – none of the 139 present voted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 139 present voted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. No amendment accepted. Maria Janjušević submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the 139-member vote. Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote of 140 present. Professor Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote of 140 present. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 16th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. The 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 139 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 17th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 140 present voted. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 140 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 18th Amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – none of the 142 present voted. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukalović and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 142 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 19th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – none of the 142 present voted. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote – out of 142 MPs no one has joined the vote. The 20th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, Parliament group Dveri and together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – none of the 141 present voted. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, together MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, the Parliamentary Group "Enough Has Been" submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, Parliament group Dveri, Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and the DS Parliament group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that out of 141 present MPs, no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – there is no one who is abstention – who has not voted, nine MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Excise Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 134, no one, seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we are moving on to amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that neither of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no MPs present have joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no MPs present have joined the vote. The Group of Members of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina – The Green Party submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 142 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that neither of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party and MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, joint MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sukic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs present have joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament group Dveri, Parliament group Social Democratic Party, National Movement of Serbia and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote by the MPs. To Article 13. The amendment was filed by the Devere Parliament Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no MP has joined the vote. The Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Saša Radulovic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Zukorlic, please check to see if the Ambassador of Jahjaga has left a card or pulled out a bit. Please get it out. Thank you. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – two abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132 versus – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act added value. I am putting on the vote of the draft amending and supplementing law on the tax procedure and the tax administration, in principle I am closing the vote: for – 132, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – he did not approach any MPs. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, the DS parliamentary group, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulović submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs present have joined the vote. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 15th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 18th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 19th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. On the 24th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group Zoran Zivkovic and Sasa Radulovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs have joined the vote. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, Parliament Group Dveri, Parliament Group DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. Member of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Parliament Group Dveri, MP DS, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting it to a vote. No one joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on the Download of the Obligations of the Accionary Society for the Production of petrochemical Products, Sirovina and Chemicals “HIP – PETROCHEMY”, Pancevo, according to the company of the “Foot Industry of Serbia” A.D. New now and the transformation of these obligations into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-27-0.u14249	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three people. 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group – National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new article is added after Article 5. 5a. and 5b. She's been submitted by the Dwri MPs' group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new Article 5a is added after Article 5. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic and Parliament group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic and joint MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the takeover of the company's obligations to produce petrochemical products, raw materials and chemicals "HIP – Petrochemija", Panchevo, according to the company Oil Industry of Serbia, Novi Sad and transforming these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – three abstentions – there are no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law I am putting to the vote the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliamentary Group Democratic Party. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, and 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belančić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group of MPs, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, two, two, two, two, one, two, two, two, one, two, one, two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, two, two, two, two, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 142 MPs in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by a messenger of 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by a messenger of 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Mr Marko Milenković, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslav Stanković Đuričić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belančić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 141 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one who is abstentioned, no one has voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs from the Dvori group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, seven MPs of the Dvori group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesovic, four MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulović, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Dr Dragan Vesovic, four MPs of the Dveri group and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Saša Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 139, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the IMPLEMENTATION OF IMPLEMENTATIONS I am putting to the vote the draft law on evaluators of the value of immovableity, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. On Chapter 1, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 2 and Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 3 and Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the 4th and 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 5 and of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 6th and 6th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 7 and of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 8 and of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the 9th and 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 10th and of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vujaklovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of Vojvodina – the Green Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for the three against them; there has been no vote of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them, 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 13 and of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 13th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the same text, Members of the 14th and 14th amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 16 and of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 17 and of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted, who has not voted. 142 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the 19th and 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted an amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 20th and of the 20th amendments, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the LSDV parliamentary group, the Green Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 141 people's messenger for three. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against one, abstained -- one, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against two abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Article 23 and of the 23rd Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, the seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions, 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 143 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 24 and of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 25 and of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, with the correction of seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 26 and of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dr Marko Milenkovic, with the correction of seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. On behalf of members 27 and of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No MP has joined the vote. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. On behalf of the 28th and 28th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No MP has joined the vote. The 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, with a correction, seven MPs from the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. On Chapter 6, the name of the 29th and 29th amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. On behalf of the 30th and of the 30th amendments, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić, with the correction of seven MPs of the Dveri group and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. At the title of Article 31 and of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. None of the MPs joined the vote. The 31st Amendments in the same text were submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 32nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 33rd and of the 33rd Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 33rd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Saric and Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 34th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, the Dveri parliamentary group and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter VII, the name of the member 35th and member of the 35th amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 35th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The LSV-ZS parliamentary group submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Article 36 and of the 36th Amendment, the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 36th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić and by Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the LSV-ZS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 37th and of the 37th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić and the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members 38th and of the 38th Amendment, the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic and Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 39th and of the 39th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 39th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic and Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter VIII, the name of the member of the 40th and member of the 40th amendments in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 40th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. At the title of Article 41 and of the 41st Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 41st Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the member of the 42nd and member of the 42nd amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and the MP group DS submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 42nd amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Vidinovic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The title of the 43rd and the 43rd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic and the Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 44th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and by the Parliament Group Dveri and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the 45th and the 45th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 45th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Chapter IX, the name of the member of the 46th and member of the 46th amendments in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 46th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. A member of the 46th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The names of members of the 47th and the 47th amendments in the same text were submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 47th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On behalf of members 48th and of the 48th Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 47th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, the Dveri parliamentary group, SDS-NPS and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The Social Democratic Party Group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. At the title of Article 49 and of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament Group Dveri and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of the 50th and the 50th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament Group Dveri and MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law on evaluators of the value of immovableity, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on evaluators of the value of immovableity. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Parliament group Dveri, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings for citizens, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. On behalf of Glava I and member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava II and member of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by the seven MPs of the Dvori Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, Parliament group Dveri and Parliament group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava III and Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic, Parliament Group Dveri and Parliament Group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, Parliament group Dveri and MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenović, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marko Milenkovic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, the Dveri Parliamentary Group and the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Parliament group Dveri and the DS Parliament group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On behalf of Glava IV and member of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović together, and Dveri MP group I am putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The 20th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, together by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. On behalf of Chapter 5 and Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, and by the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: none of the MPs voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. It notes that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings from citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 23 December 2016, at 12 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote, I find that the National Assembly has decided that no injured member, no one has voted. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 23 December 2016, at 14 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: for - two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 17 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 19 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Marija Janjusevic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 20 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 27 December 2016, at 21 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 01 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 02 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 28 December 2016, at 02 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 27 and 158 of Section 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Members, this concludes our second regular session in 2016. I want to thank you for your truly dedicated work. See you next year. I wish you a happy New Year and a holiday with you loved ones. Thank you very much.
