ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7825	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. Please, to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 144 MPs are present in the hall. You have been presented the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year and the Third Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 25, 26 and 27 October and 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10 November 2016. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – one, with abstention – there are no, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has adopted these records. I put to the vote the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 9 November 2016. Please vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 21 MPs for – 146. I find that the Assembly has adopted the Book of the Third Special Sessions. During this session, you received a draft agenda for the session, but we have a number of proposals by emergency procedure and by regular procedure. Here you go. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7826	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to point out that this session has been called contrary to Article 86. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 86th article says in its first position – National Assembly meetings are convened by the president of the National Assembly on a written basis, as a rule at least seven days before the date set for the start of the session. In point 2, it says -- it can be convened in a shorter period, with the president obliged at the beginning of the session to explain such a procedure. I've been waiting for you to explain why this session was called in 24 and a half hours, meaning not seven days, but 24 and a half hours. Why was she called in Sunday, in 1500 hours, when it wasn't the working hours of the National Assembly? Why is there no TV broadcast provided for this session of the National Assembly, which the congregation pays to the public service each year for 80 million dinars? Not to mention Article 172. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses how the budget is discussed, can also be discussed within which deadlines. I ask you to understand that you have injured Article 86, because you have not given us an explanation of why the session was convened within a short period of time and to move the beginning of this session in seven days, or six days, to at least honor Article 86. The Rules of Procedure which discusses calling a session within a period of at least seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7827	Thank you very much. It's the urgency of the procedure, as you know, you know that leh specialis derogat lies generals, so all the special rules derrogate general rules. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I don't know how. Working hours. I don't know, during the working hours of the Assembly, the Assembly works... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You have an article 87.) Yeah, sure. The assembly, as a rule, but you know it, you've been in power for years, you know that by the rule, it can be different. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: By the rule that must be explained. That's right. I thought, as President of Parliament, this was the best time to start a session. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: When there is no TV transmission.) It is. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: In the dark.) Bravo. ) Thank you so much for the bravo. Finally one good thing for me. As far as television broadcasts are concerned, yes, I know we're not in direct transmission right now, but the way it is, RTS is going to be delayed and it's not a newspaper. Thank you very much. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: In the budget, they don't know about their money. They'll know the citizens, because they're looking closely and... (Marco Djurisic, now: Perhaps because you are visiting on shows, we cannot appear anywhere and say anything. All right, we'll make a deal, if I can influence, so you can show up. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Well, for 80 million dinars, of course you can. ) National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Labour Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Property Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 2, v – six, with abstentions – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law on housing and maintenance of buildings be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – eight, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic proposed to put the draft law supplementing the Act on Excises on an urgent basis. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – one abstention – there are no, 172 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The SNS parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The government has proposed to put the draft Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic of Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2016, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 150, against – five, abstention – one, not vote 31 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2016 be put on the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 150, against – nine, abstention – one, was not voted by 21 MPs. I find that the proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed to put the draft Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the 2016 Social Insurance Fund's financial plan. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 152, against – three, abstention – one, not voted 31 MPs. I find that the proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the draft decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the 2016 National Employment Service's financial plan on the urgent procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 152, v – five, abstention – one, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Budget System Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 152, v – five, abstention – one, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed to put the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2017 on the urgent procedure, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2017, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2017, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service Financial Plan for 2017 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the military insurance for 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 151, v – five, abstention – one, not the vote of 31 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Interim Regulation on how pensions are paid should be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 151, against – three, abstention – one, the 33 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed that the agenda be completed at the point of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Does Bosko Obradovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7828	The Honorable President, dear fellow Members of the People, is helping all and happy today's Festival of Resurrection. It may not be wise to work on such a big holiday, but if the ruling majority wants it, we of the opposition are always ready to criticize you. I think we have before us and that you have an extremely important bill of law, namely, a bill of termination of the Law on the temporary way of regulating pension payments. This is a great moment for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because by adopting one of these laws, it corrects a huge injustice that has been committed to the oldest population of our fellow citizens, pensioners who have practically been robbed of pensions, as their right, as their constitutionally guaranteed right. In the past two years, despite Alexander Vukic's promise that there will never be a reduction in pensions, in some of the previous elections, which is just one of the fake SNS promises, has reduced pensions by 10%, and here for two years now, by taking away their legal and acquired pensions. We, fulfilling our pre-election promise and the social partnership agreement with the Association of Serbian Pensioners Unions and the Association of Retired Military Peoples of Serbia, have submitted to the assembly procedure the draft law repealing this robbery law on the temporary way of paying off pensions and not only to abolish this disastrous law that has robbed pensioners in Serbia, but we are asking that the same law return to all that has been robbed in the past two years. As far back as you've robbed the pensioners, so many years to come, it takes the return of that robbed portion of pensions, of course, with a tight interest. So, we keep, unlike you progressives, our pre-election promises and as promised to the pensioners before the elections, here's in the assembly procedure of the law that stands by their side, which protects them from further robbery by the SNS and which returns what's been robbed over the previous two years. I think it's because this is a historic moment. This will be a date that will be remembered in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism for the simple reason that the first time the issue of returning pensioners to what was robbed of them thanks to your Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions. Nor was that law temporary. You've been robbing pensioners for two and a half years, and that wasn't according to the Constitution. But here comes the new political forces that commit to returning to the pensioners what you have robbed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7829	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote of 164 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7830	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman and the Working Presidency, I think there are topics that even we who have been warned and divided into power and opposition, there is really no reason to share. Here's one such topic, the Proposal for a Resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia, is undoubtedly a topic that tangs anyone who feels Serbian. There is therefore no single reason why you as the ruling majority should not suggest, do not support this proposal to enter the congregation procedure, enter the agenda, so if we need to complete it together and correct it, we are open to it. But to refuse to adopt a resolution on genocide against the Serb people in the Independent State of Croatia, I couldn't possibly understand it and explain it to you, except for your hysteria to reject any proposal coming out of the opposition's ranks. It is simply that there are lines of opposition to the proposal that are truly constructive, which you can indeed sign, and I am sure that each one of you MPs of the government supports this motion for a resolution, but someone may, for what reason, have told you not to vote on this agenda today's session. Please think again. You don't have to think with Alexander Vukic's head or Alexander Martinovic's. If they tell you not to vote, vote freely, for you are free men and independent messengers. It is time, I appeal to you, I beg you and I beg you, it is time to talk about the loss of the Serbian people in the 20th century, to bring the truth to the domestic and international public about the loss of Serbs in NDH. It's our obligation to all sufferers, it's our obligation to our victims, it's our obligation to historical memory and memory. Is it possible that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia still after so many decades here in this house has not passed a resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia? Can we have such a relationship with the 20th century Serb death? I don't see who can be against this proposal. I don't see what might be controversial in this proposal. I don't see why you would vote against including this item of the agenda as a supplemental? We all agree on that. We all know that in the Independent State of Croatia, one of the most monstrous genocides occurred, that Jadovno and Jasenovac concentration camps were the most monstrous industry of death in mankind's history, that Ustasha killed children in special children's concentration camps. But that's not to say that here in the National Assembly, that we don't make a resolution on the subject, that we don't all stand as one behind it, I can't understand it, and I once again appeal to you from the authorities to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7831	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – two abstentions – there are no, 174 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 28 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 18 hours because of the need for the Assembly to adopt the acts proposed, if adopted in the agenda. National MPs of the Dveri Group suggest that today's session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the opening of the Republic elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections. Here you go. Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7832	Dear fellow MPs, there are even more reasons why you, especially from the authorities, should accept this proposal to finally educate in the National Assembly a committee of inquiry that would examine the truth about all developments in the recent extraordinary parliamentary elections. Why? Because you were the first to propose the establishment of such a committee of inquiry. It was the head of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic who first proposed that we form a assembly survey committee and examine what was really going on in the previous elections. Then why don't you support this request to form a survey board? Why did you give up your own request to form a congregation survey committee? Did you admit that we were right when we said that you actually committed an election theft? I don't see any other explanation. If you were really behind your words, if you had evidence that something was different, that the opposition was guilty, you'd probably agree to set up a polling committee and prove what happened on election night, if you're saying something was going on. What are you running from forming a congregation survey committee? Where are you running to? What are you ashamed of? What are you hiding? What's the problem? I can only conclude from all of this one simple and simple fact that we were right when we claimed that you stole the election, because you wouldn't be afraid you'd form a assembly board and find out what was going on in the election process. You gave up your own proposal. You didn't even vote for Alexander Martinovic's proposal. What's this about? It is that you are afraid of the parliamentary polling committee to determine the truth about the election process because we would prove that you were stealing from the voter lists, how you were re-reading election lists and records, how you were counting in the Statistical Institute and RIK, how you were stealing votes from blackmails, threats, phone calls, entry into houses and all other aspects of pressure on citizens, how you introduced media censorship, how you prevented equal media treatment of all electoral participants, how your leader, Alexander Vukic, for five years, did not want to go out on any direct television duel, where someone who is not Jelena Kareuša would sit on the other side, as you simply conduct an electoral torture against Serbian citizens. There is no free choice in Serbia until there is no free media and until the truth of your election theft is known. To remind you, Tomislav Nikolic in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections promised the truth about the election theft since Đurđevdan in 2012. Here is the fifth year, here is the end of his term, another false pre-election promise by SNS and Tomislav Nikolic. I now believed for a moment that you might have little morals and honor that you would support at least the request requested by Aleksandar Martinovic to form a survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7833	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote 164 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension invalidity Insurance Act. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7834	Dear fellow Members of the People, I know you look forward to hearing me, so I would like to introduce you to an extremely important legislative proposal from our parliamentary group. It is about amendments to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, which introduces two key changes, which, of course, you have forgotten in your reformed pension robberies. The first thing is something you kicked out of the law when you kidnapped the pensioners 10% of your pension. At that time, you threw out a very important provision of that law, which is that pension levels in Serbia are regularly aligned with the cost of living, i.e. with price increases in Serbia. So you haven't been coordinating pensions for years with price hikes. So, not only did you rob the pensioners by 10% as much as you took from them, but you keep robbing them, because there is a constant rise in prices, inflation exists all the time, and their pensions don't line up with the cost of living. We wanted this proposal to amend and supplement the Pension Disability Insurance Act to correct another injustice brought by the Serbian Progressive Party in the time of its government, and to return this harmonisation of pension growth with rising prices and living costs. There is another, even more important, for the strategic relationship with the PIO Fund, the amendment and addition of this law, which concerns changes in the PIO Fund's board of directors. In your time, you have changed the number of members of the PIO Fund, reduced it to seven members of the Management Board and assigned, of course, to the Government to have four members delegates. By the way, you're like the government, you're like the Serbian Progressive Party taking over the PIO Fund. So, more employees who are filling this PIO fund and pensioners who are PIO's users don't ask questions in the PIO fund, because the government through its four representatives of the PIO Trust Management Board has taken over most of the management of the PIO Fund. You have no right to do so, and we are trying to bring it back to normal balance with these amendments and additions to the law. We propose a number of representatives of the PIO Fund staff and we propose a number of representatives of pensioners on the PIO Fund Management Board. In this way, there would be a balance in the handling of the PIO Fund and it would not happen like now, if you put the former or current assets of the PIO Fund, such as healing spas, for privatisation and sale, it would be done quite the opposite, the PIO fund would be returned to those capital facilities, all of its assets, all the enterprises that belonged to it, in order for the PIO Fund to have the security to pay off pensions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7835	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 167 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill amending the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, submitted by MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group and the National Movement of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7836	Thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, today, unfortunately, Serbia's citizens will not be able to hear that there is an alternative economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because this part of the session is not directly transferred because the ruling majority wanted to do so. Of course, it will not discourage us, and we will not give up on proposing bill proposals that we consider better for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the bill that should bring about a change in the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, until the citizens of Serbia feel better, that the citizens of Serbia, above all, decide to stay in Serbia and here to start their family. When we discuss the budget for the next few days, unfortunately, we will not see a single measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia going in that direction, and several laws that we are proposing here today are precisely meant to keep young people in Serbia above all and to allow them to find a job, create a family and continue the future in their own country. The first law I'm going to talk about is the Law on the financing of local self-government. At the beginning of the autumn session this year, we reduced the amount of sales taxes left by local self-government. The tax was reduced by 4 and 3%, respectively, and there was a reason when the government came with the proposal, how the measures that led to the adoption of the law in 2011. However, we have not heard a single argument in the debate that would confirm this, because there are numerous examples of municipalities that have successfully used this major inflow of funds into their local budgets from the profit tax and used to develop the economy in their municipalities. This is where bad examples were kept in mind. In the end, as a prime argument, local self-government accepted this reduction. They accepted that they were first offered to cut by 10 billion a year, and finally offered five as a compromise solution. Of course they did. Our solution is that, through two laws, local self-government remains this small amount, which you said they had accepted, but that through the amendment of the second law, which I will talk about in the next supplement, it will finally begin to reduce the economy, to reduce 1% of the income tax on citizens in order to move towards this redistribution of the economy and to allow more economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7837	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -28, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7838	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the essence of the amendment this bill carries is that the income tax rate of citizens from 10 is reduced to 9%. One of the main burdens years ago, ten years and over, and one of the main concerns is that the burden on the incomes of tax employees and contributions is too high and is close to 70%. One of the main grudges of all who want to invest in Serbia is that this burden is much less in other countries and that is why many investors, unfortunately, decide to invest in Serbia, instead of investing in another country. Each government came and promised certain reductions. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We think that if, already in the numerous laws that we have put on the agenda today, from budgets to amendments to the Budgetary System Act, it speaks of how the results of fiscal consolidation are better than expected and planned, we feel that we need to do something, something that, unfortunately, we can hear from the media that the Ministry of Finance is not planning in the coming year. The finance minister made it very clear the other day that he did not plan to reduce tax burdens and contribute to employee earnings in Serbia. That, unfortunately, has the effect that Serbia is coughing in investment for all countries in the region. Serbia's investment per capita compared to other countries in the region is the least. These investments are investments in the simplest industries, simplest jobs, jobs employed for minimum income, which are also less burdened with taxes and contributions and are certainly not investments that can lead to the development of the Republic of Serbia. The growth we have is not enough. Growth is due to the general economic situation in the world. If the World Bank's estimate is that the world economy is growing at a rate of 3.1 to 3.3%, and the Serbian economy 3% in 2016, we continue to cough after the world, and are not in the place of comparison with the economy of Germany and the growth rate in Germany, France or Sweden. We should see what growth rate the economies of undeveloped countries are in which unfortunately Serbia is and we will see that we are having a lot of cascade. And in order to change psychology and achieve growth in Serbia, we need quality investments that can only come when we reduce the burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7839	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 MPs. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as the Savamal on 25 April 2016, which was submitted by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group - the People's Movement. Do you want a word? The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7840	It has been more than seven months since the election night and what happened in one part of Belgrade, and I believe it is very worrying, for every citizen of Serbia, not only because certain barracks, as the prime minister said, were destroyed, because it was done during the night, illegally, but primarily because police did not respond to calls from citizens who were upset by what was happening, called on the police to come and intervene in accordance with the law, and the police did not. What most citizens ask from that day to this day is, who could give such an order? Who are the complete idiots at the top of the city government, how could we find out in the weeks after that event by the prime minister, who organized and ordered this destruction? But we couldn't find out who they were in the police force who gave orders to police officers who were on call that night so the citizens wouldn't answer their phone calls. In Serbia's judicial system, instead of getting answers to these questions, we have a process against the media that writes about it. Such a country is certainly not a safe country for its citizens, such a country is not safe for anyone who wants to come to Serbia and invest and work. I think the answer to this question is in the interest of all, both the authorities and the opposition, the citizens, the media, all of us. Unfortunately, that's where we disagree. Not a single answer, except that the investigation is under way, we haven't won for all this time. I therefore call on you to form a committee of inquiry here in parliament within the competences that parliament has and to be able to form a committee to deal with a particular topic, to form a committee of inquiry, as proposed, with the participation of all parliamentary parties and to be a place where the truth will be heard about events, where perhaps those who today are afraid to join the judicial authorities, which are completely under the control of the ruling parties, can come to parliament as a safe house and say what they know about it. Let's hear where the Balds, the Mutavis and the others were that night, what were they doing, that those still alive came to parliament today, that is, when we adopt this decision, and say something about who gave the order to bring down these objects, who gave the order to the police not to intervene? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7841	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 31, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7842	I must, with regrets, start by realizing that neither the draft budget has come up with a new bill or amendments and the addition of the Law on Financial Support to the Family by the Government and that what we have been working on for two years, this is an announcement by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which, in response to our legal initiative, says that a working group has been formed and that the working group will come with a bill that should improve and improve the financial support of the family with children by the state. Unfortunately, the task force was first formed more than two years ago. She did her job for a year, and then, according to the minister, the elections came, and after the elections came the formation of the government, so a hundred days of government and various other jubilee. Now we're obviously going to have new elections, and there's no change to this law. We made this proposal because the situation is catastrophic. This year, the smallest number of babies was born in Serbia in this century. In yesterday's newspaper, the text was that baby equipment in Serbia is 50% more expensive than in the European Union countries, and the measures that the government has been implementing through this law have not been changed in six years and there is no indication that it will change. What I've been looking at in these two days since we got the budget was just a division of the ministry that was intended for this purpose. There's no change here, unfortunately. No new measures, the program that's being implemented is an old program, it's the same, but they're not enough. Today, the situation in Serbia is catastrophic. The rate and ratio of the deceased and born citizens in Serbia will be the highest this year, with 40,000 being the difference. If we take the information that 58,000 Serbian citizens have moved to OECD countries alone in 2015, it means that we lost 100,000 citizens in one year. What alarm is that? What is it that's gonna make this government do something? I urge you to adopt this proposal, open this debate and finally do something. There must be some measures here that may not be enforceable right now, but there's something we need to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7843	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—25, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Culture. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7844	Thank you, esteemed president, fellow MPs. The Law on Culture was one of the last laws passed in the last assembly of the National Assembly. Given the time and the announcement of new elections, the question is how much we're going to have in this assembly in the first place and whether we're going to have any law from the new culture minister. To tell you the truth, it was hard for me to remember who the Minister of Culture was for a hundred days. What we suggested and what we said when we passed the law was not good, it was a solution to national pensions. First of all, this is about the country's relationship to the most prominent cultural workers. At that time, the original idea, fortunately former Minister Tasovac, was that these pensions were completely abolished, and yet somehow, under public pressure, it was identified as a solution to remain that possibility, but that the government decided on it on the basis of its regulation and its criteria. What we have proposed in this regulation is that, as in the case of top athletes, which is fine, the state assigns national pensions to top cultural workers and artists by automation the moment they achieve the highest international award in the same way that it was done for athletes. The ministry's answer to this initiative is that it is contained in the regulation. Our desire is precisely not to be a matter of regulation, because the government regulations bring secretly to its sessions, without public presence, without public debate, and legislative solutions are the only ways to guarantee that you will have the right to have and that you can also know and be sure of that right. Several times by proposing these amendments to the law, I quoted various people who spoke about the importance of culture for a nation. Now I was particularly interested in what Winston Churchill said during the Fascist German attack in World War II, and you were in a book about Boris Johnson, the foreign minister, I see you made a diplomatic scandal organizing a private promotion of his book on Churchill right in Belgrade when he was on an official visit, so maybe you could hear that statement there, which he said when the general suggested that cultural events be abolished to save money, Winston Churchill replied to him – and, then, what are we going to defend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7845	Thanks, time. I'm putting it to a vote. There's that in Boris Johnson's book. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I know, I read it.) So am I. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 160 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that we supplement the agenda with the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7846	Thank you. I'm glad you read that book, and I'm sorry that the promotion of that book caused a diplomatic scandal in Serbia, but well, let's get back to this Law on Public Sector Salary System. The law, which was announced by also the former minister, as a law that will finally settle the situation in the public sector, unfortunately hides a huge flaw in itself. Already in the first article, the Law defines the public sector without public enterprises, without NBS and without the Public Media Service. Thus, this law does not make it complete and absolutely impossible to respond to its purpose and purpose, which is that a clear and transparent system of wages is being introduced in the public sector where, in any part of the public sector, the same will be earned for the same jobs. We pointed out that, of course, it is not adopted, these amendments to the law come from changing it, that what happens in public enterprises, NBS, where wages continue to increase, where supplements, fees, rewards, bonuses are distributed, in a situation where employees in the state sector, in the state administration, the only ones who are not on the plan to increase earnings for 2017. All of this creates additional imbalances, additional dissatisfaction and makes the state administration and this part of the public sector covered by this law ineffective and does not meet the purpose for which it exists, which is to help citizens to exercise their rights. This law is bad because it has reduced the rights of employees, their ability to choose a place where they will live, because they are limited to claim compensation for transportation according to the change of residence. This law introduced a budgetary limit where budgeting is put as a top goal, which is completely wrong. The aim should be to achieve the role of the state body established to meet the needs of citizens, not to spend or not spend the budget, to achieve savings or another solution. This law is also a difficult, economic position for employees in this part of the public sector that it deals with, and it has made it even harder and in the coming years it will certainly be, unless something changes is even less functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7847	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. You know how Đurisic, the opposition is the same everywhere, even in their country, so there was no scandal, I'm telling you this about Boris Johnson. I conclude the vote: for – 27, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 160 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7848	Thank you. We've been proposing this law for over a year. The essence of this law is that baby food is taxed at a lower value added tax rate instead of 20% on 10%. The idea of this law was to show that the state is taking active measures and that it wants to change something into a policy that has led to fewer and fewer babies being born in Serbia every year. What is new in this proposal is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that came three days ago, which, of course, says that this law should not be adopted not because something in this bill is not good, but the only reason the government is if VAT on food is reduced, for babies from 20% to 10%, it does not necessarily and would not necessarily lead to the cost of this product. I think this kind of explanation is extremely inappropriate. Of course, there is no automation, but this government swears to the market as the Supreme Judge who always rightly solves and a liberal market that in this case would certainly react to a reduction in prices and that is something that is normal. It is absolutely certain that the state, too, would have the state's mechanisms to check whether prices have been reduced in any way. I am sure that importers and producers themselves would not give up the possibility to reduce VAT, that this would also reduce the retail price, as that lower price would allow them to trade more and make more money. So I am absolutely inadmissible with the government's explanation. With this logic, no measure that we are adopting here to reduce or increase VAT, the impact of increasing or reducing the minimum profit price and other things that we in parliament or government are doing should not, by automated means, lead to some change in the market. Of course that's not true. If there is a market and everyone fights for a place on the market, he will use the opportunity to lower the price of his product because it is less VAT by 8% or 9% as much as it would reduce the price and thus be better positioned on the market. That's why I'm asking you to accept this law, to discuss it, to vote it, and to help families.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7849	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points - draft law on the proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7850	Thank you. This Law on Proposing of the Law, I've said it many times, but I haven't come across an understanding, and almost every session of this one, we have a situation when we see why one such law needs to exist, that it exists in Serbia's legal system. Today we put on the agenda, by emergency procedure, laws, the most important law that the Assembly passed, the Budget Act, was put in place by emergency procedure. Two accompanying laws have been laid down by an emergency procedure. Several laws, proposed by the government, have not been put on the agenda today in some strange way, and have also led to the controversy in the public and the obvious intention to propose and adopt the emergency procedure was the benefit of individuals, top state officials living in state fairies and apartments, who were also sent to the Assembly by an emergency procedure, to end up for small money in someone's private hands. This law should introduce order and the constitutional possibility of certain laws being found by emergency procedure within 15 days, that it really be an exception, not a rule. In this conference, 78% of the laws we discussed were debated by an emergency procedure. This whole session, all the agenda points are in emergency procedure. We didn't get an explanation from the government, nor from the chairman, why the laws were passed by an emergency procedure. In our opinion, the only way to stop this practice is to pass the law, counting on us as the most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia to be the first to comply with the law, and for what is in this bill to be our obligation and to treat the citizens who chose us here. Unfortunately, I have not received the support of most MPs in the past several times for this law, but I certainly will not give up on behalf of my SDS-NPS parliamentary group to propose this law and other laws, to do something to strengthen institutions in Serbia, to strengthen parliament's position, to introduce greater responsibility, which would eventually lead to a better life for Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7851	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7852	Thank you. To correct my colleague from the Dveri parliamentary group, who today, on behalf of his parliamentary group, explained a similar law and tried to get your support for it, said it was the first time in parliament to talk about it. It's not the first time. I think this is the 12th time since 15 September 2015 that I am trying to put on the agenda a draft law on the suspension of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. This was joined in the meantime by DS MPs. We have been trying for more than a year to point out the harmfulness of this law, the great injustice that has been done by 700,000 pensioners, the oldest citizens of our country, who have worked their entire lives to be reduced by 20% or 25% by an arbitration decision by the government over two years ago. What we get in response is that this law, which carries the word temporarily, becomes a permanent, permanent solution. We will have today on the agenda of this session, which we are starting to amend this law proposed by the government, but not the changes that put aside the government's provisions on pension cuts, but some 1.5% increase, which corresponds to the price hike in the Republic of Serbia in 2016, and it does not say anything about whether or not pensioners who, more than several years ago, are going to return to the level that was in force until then and when they will be paid the difference, and that is what our bill is talking about. I look forward to this debate. Unfortunately, it will be united, it will be with the budget, but let's try to get an answer from the minister whether it remains in that sentence he said when this law was passed two years ago, when the term of the three-year term was deleted from this law, with an explanation that this law will cease to apply before that deadline. In all these budget-related laws, the results of fiscal consolidation are better. If they're better, then it's time for this nakarad and bad law to stop working. I invite you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7853	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 26, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7854	Thank you. A year ago, one of the numerous unfulfilled and false promises by the prime minister of Serbia and his party received verification here in Serbia's parliament. It was then hated and announced a long number of years of electricity tax, which was abolished only two years after coming to power, after only a year and a half back, titled – tax for the Public Media Service. This fee is, of course, miraculously reintroduced in the way it was charged by 2014, which is with the electric bill, but not in a way that you could not pay that tax, but in a way that no matter how much you paid the bill for electricity, it would first be separate money for a fee, and then the rest of the money would go to settle the debt for electricity, and by doing so, in addition to one of your many promises, you brought Serbian citizens into a position to pay this fee several times. They pay it to an electric number they have in garages, temporary facilities, halls, I don't know what, and practically, by not making it clear in the law that one person, physically or legally, can only be a liability to this fee once, you have introduced that citizens pay this fee several times and that he can't get rid of it. The procedure the Public Media Service is now using to get rid of this tax is such that I don't know if anyone has gotten rid of it. This fee, when we talked about it in parliament, is explained – well, it doesn't matter, it's only 150 dinars, it's not a big expense. I'm asking the question now, December 4th, what will it be in 2017? So 150 dinars is the amount for 2016. This is certainly one of the topics related to the budget of the following days and to see whether the Government will finance a public media service like last year, because the tax was only 150, not a maximum of 500, or whether we will have a tax of 500 dinars from January 1st?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7855	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 20 against - 164 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency's law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against half-freeness towards minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. Is he here? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. You want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7856	I thank the President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, here on Sunday, for the fifth time in a row, we propose laws as an opposition, where among these there are certainly 20, 30 laws we propose, and those you would gladly support, but since there are no bells you do not vote for. Please, before I begin to explain these laws, to listen to them, and you suggest them, and we will accept them or tell the government to propose these laws because these are laws that directly depend on the lives of citizens and depend on the future development of Serbia. One of these laws is certainly the law on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, given that for years we have not had an adequate strategy, nor enough investment and investment in agriculture, although in this area of economy we have the greatest opportunities and opportunities for growth. So no one sees it, not because there is no money, but because there is either ignorance or no desire to help the Serbian peasant. I propose this bill to raise incentives and agricultural premiums that farmers would use to strengthen themselves with competition, exploit the potentials we have and thus employ ourselves, but also help Serbia. I remind you that there are 630,000 registered agricultural holdings in Serbia today. In these holdings, 1,450,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are employed permanently in these agricultural holdings and the largest employer in Serbia today are small agricultural holdings. Unfortunately, the state does not recognise them as such, but sees them more as a burden, because it has to allocate certain funds to them in the budget. Now, if you look, we continue as a country that has a billion-euro potential for exporting agricultural products, we have bigger imports of tomatoes and peppers this year than exports. If we imported 14.5m euros, we exported only 3.4, we realize that the country is actually not seriously dealing with the problem. In the next 2017 budget, we have some shifts, small and modest, but we can't believe anything, because if every year back two, three years we talk about an IPAR programme, which is supposed to strengthen farmers, not one single dinar of the estimated 175m euros from the EU, then you can see that we can't expect the agriculture budget to be realised at the level envisaged. Therefore, it is necessary to allocate a little bit of resources, take from Beograd on water and Arabs and Germans and give to our Serbian peasant and he will certainly make a greater contribution than these foreigners who only take from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7857	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7858	Thank you, Chairman. So it is a law that defines local communities' competences as the lowest level of government in the Republic of Serbia. So, even though it may seem unserious to someone, it is the first level of government that citizens face in any part of the Republic of Serbia to live with. For years, their function has been completely demoted, and I want this law to give local communities greater authority and that they perform certain functions and implement those projects that concern the lives of themselves, because they know best what their priorities are. Unfortunately, this law is not on the agenda, although I have suggested it five times already. I believe that it is very important to you at this point, too, because after the local elections, where the SNS has won the largest number of cities, now there are elections for the local communities, and it is important that the local communities also have the importance of having them. What I have to say is that it seems that you do not want to strengthen the local communities, but you want to abolish them, because local self-governments do not discuss elections for local communities, although the law has defined that within six months, from the formation and establishment of local authorities, elections with the councils of local communities are being held. We have an example, specifically with me, in the municipality of Trstenik, where the legal deadline is December 24th to hold elections for the councils of the local communities. They are not even scheduled yet because, he says, they have been ordered by the central party to hold the elections together with the presidential elections, possibly parliamentary. Since we have a new round of elections in Serbia every year, it is no wonder that elections for local communities are not held, so at least we will unite and go to play each year to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, I propose this law to provide financial resources in the Budget Law and predict that 80% of the property tax in local communities remains for them to finance projects they set as their priorities and 20% of it goes to the local self-government budget. On the other hand, it is also very important for the law to define the obligation to form councils for local communities and city municipalities, therefore for urban areas. In this current law, it is very clear that it is mandatory for rural local communities to form and not on the territory of the city. So we need to correct that anomaly and give the citizens a chance to feel the decentralisation that we're talking about, or you're talking about as power, but we don't see it anywhere in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7859	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one with abstentions—anyone. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7860	Thank you. This is one of the laws I really can't believe you don't want to put on the agenda. It is a law that should comply with the Law on Student and Student Standard and the Law on Local Self-Government and allow cities and municipalities in Serbia to be able to scholarship their students and their students in accordance with legislation. It's a technical matter, it's about the possibility that the president of the municipality or the mayor who wants to scholarship his students and students can do it without breaking the law and not having to get a report from the DRI or some other inspections that come into labour control. We propose to introduce a member of Law 16a, which regulates and secures the scholarship of students and students at local level. So what else should be said in this bill if there is not enough argument that it leaves Serbia annually to tens of thousands of people. Fifty-eight thousand workers last year left the Republic of Serbia. Thirty-eight thousand people were negative natural growth in 2015. More than half of the young people under 30 want to leave Serbia, and is that enough to sign that they live in Serbia? Will you sober up, figure out which way the Republic of Serbia is going today? Is that a signal to do something urgent? He obviously doesn't represent you, because you don't want to talk about this. But this is certainly a good assessment of the government's work. Indeed, I cannot understand that there is a problem that at least we can comply with the law and that we can help those of our students and students, who are the future of this country, have a basic and basic existence. In the past decade, 175,000 people have left Serbia, up to the age of 30. It's an alarm for all people who really think well of this country. Unfortunately, we are hearing again about praises, about prosperity, about the results of the government's work, and when we get to the point where we need to seriously discuss important things, such as the 2017 Budget Act, it's an emergency procedure, where we get only one day, as opposition MPs, to analyze the budget. It's just talking about how and how there's something about him to see what you're hiding and you don't want to find out, you have a lot of fear, and if it shouldn't be logical. Usually bigger ones aren't afraid of smaller ones, but now the thing is the other way around, and you're afraid of the opposition, which could look at the budget and ask awkward questions that citizens can't hear on TV. The reason is that today, there's probably no transmission, which you're afraid to actually hear what's being said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7861	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one with abstentions—anyone. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7862	Thank you, Chairman. This is also an important bill and concerns entrepreneurs, domestic companies, domestic small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the Republic of Serbia. You have declared this year a year of entrepreneurship, former Economy Minister Sertic, the fourth in a row of all your governments, said more than 40 legal solutions will be amended that will in some way facilitate the functioning and business of companies, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. We didn't get anything from all of this, and I, for the fifth time, suggest one of these legal solutions that needs to be changed, and you don't want to put it on the agenda. But I'm going to re-propose this bill and tell you what's important. It is important that all our domestic legal persons who employ new workers in the current year are reduced the basis for paying taxes for the amount of earnings paid for newly employed workers. The second member, who I propose to change, means that in those underdeveloped economic areas of the Republic of Serbia, newly established legal persons are free to pay taxes for a period of three years. All your governments during the previous period swore to small and medium-sized enterprises, based economic growth on the Serbian entrepreneur, the Serbian entrepreneurship, but the result, unfortunately, was lagging behind. We in the last 15 years, if we look at it, we have a trend that the number of small companies is dropping and it continues. Instead of helping our entrepreneurs with smaller money, smaller funds, we, with gifts from the half-empty budget, continue to worship foreign investors. For 2017, a total of 13 billion incentives are foreseen for foreign companies. There are almost no Serbian firms here. With much less resources, our entrepreneurs would be more satisfied and would make a greater contribution to overall economic development in the Republic of Serbia. Now in Serbia where it operates about 300,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, they unfortunately create only 30 per cent of GDP, but it is not because they lack or lack an entrepreneurial spirit, or because they do not know that they are doing their job, but because the state is suppressing them, because it puts them in an unequal position with foreigners coming here to Serbia, because they do not have a normal functioning system in the state and do not have the normal operating conditions that businessmen in other countries, developed countries of Europe, actually. It is no wonder, therefore, that every six new open businesses, domestic ones, have shut down 10, which have already functioned in the Republic of Serbia. With this, I propose that this law be put on the agenda, as a good incentive system would activate the potential of our entrepreneurs in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7863	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one, with abstention – no one. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7864	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, back several sessions, we proposed, the SDS parliamentary group and the People's Serbia Movement, proposed several laws, including the Law on Public Order and Peace, which entered on February 5th 2016. The subject matter of this law has been established among other things, public order and peace regulation and counter-laws against public order and peace. It may not have been a month or two, we have noticed that this law has its shortcomings, that this law, especially in Article 22, where we propose to delete this member, because it is obvious that after perhaps a month, it has been misused, and I will only remind you of the case we had, right here in Belgrade, when the municipal police misused their powers and rights, where we even had a fatal outcome. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment to this law, requesting that Article 22 be deleted, because I believe that this article is not defined in an acceptable manner and whose interpretation is left to the case. A clear and precise definition of this member and the violation itself could in some way deprive the officials of their powers, but when I say deny, honourable Members of Parliament, above all I mean powers that are not precisely defined by this law, and especially by Article 22. So that there is no confusion and that someone thinks that I want in any way to reduce the jurisdiction and authority of the official, I believe that in the other provisions of the law, i.e. other laws are sufficient to regulate the authority of the official in such cases. For this reason, honourable Members of the People, I ask you to vote that this law, i.e. We put the amendments to this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7865	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7866	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members of Parliament, by analysing the effects of the Law on Public Gathering, we have seen some weaknesses and shortcomings, and we want, by proposing and amending this law, to improve this law, because the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly are guaranteed to achieve a greater degree of freedom of assembly, especially with regard to trade union action. For this reason, we asked that Articles 3.6 and 13 be amended and Article 13a be added. and Article 14. I will here, in short, honourable Members of the People, explain to you why and how we look at it and how we think these members should be changed. First of all, it means that as far as Article 3 is concerned, it is coming out to union representatives as well as to all employees who want to show their dissatisfaction at the moment. I don't think there's a reason why it would not come out, first of all, to trade unions that organize this kind of protest. As for the amendment of Article 6, there really isn't, and that's what I said last time, the reason why it would strictly prohibit gathering and showing dissatisfaction in front of preschool and school institutions. I mean, I don't see a reason at all, but when this law was passed, we also submitted amendments and asked for this to be allowed. As for the amendment of Article 13, it must be clearly defined by us, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other authorities should act within the framework of the existing regulatory framework. It is therefore not necessary to organise a gathering outside the jurisdiction of any authority, because it is necessary to establish in the beginning responsibility for possible unwanted events and consequences. We've had cases a few years ago, and I think this member needs to be specified so that there's no abuse. We have also asked here to add Article 13a, where there would be a clear definition of the place of gathering without reporting, and in this case this place of gathering is the Square of Nikola Pasic and I see no reason, because everywhere in all democratic countries, there is a certain place to gather for a certain kind of protest, with, of course, being reported to state authorities, above all, the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7867	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7868	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, the Law on Public Information and the media has been in force since 13 August 2014. Its adoption was announced as a major reform shift under a set of media laws. And then we supported this law, and then we had some objections. It is these remarks that we had as a parliamentary group in 2014, that we want to try to re-propose the National Assembly in this way and hope that the National Assembly will adopt all of this. So our remarks were firstly consistent with the objections of the Anti-Corruption Alliance, which in February 2015 published a report on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia. In our opinion, but fortunately and in the Council's view, there are in practice shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and they exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding of multiple media at the same time. In order not to do so, we propose in Article 1 of this Bill, it is proposed to amend Article 39 paragraph 1 of point 8 by providing that all owners, direct, indirect, regardless of the level of share in the founding capital, are to be entered in the Register of Media, which is to be entered in only data on owners whose share exceeds 5%. I think that the practice backwards these two years has also shown that just those who are not seen in a transparent way as media owners, most abused and influenced in the way that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are reported and informed, because we believe that the proposed changes to this law would in some way ensure transparency of the ownership structure of the publisher or media, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media. At the same time, the possibility of possible abuses and illicit influences on the media or through the media will be reduced. You have seen for yourself that the European Commission, in its latest report, has just criticised the non-transparentity of the ownership structure in the media. That is another reason for the honourable MPs to accept and to put the amendments to this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7869	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7870	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, the existing Law on corporate tax is prescribed that the corporate tax rate is 15%. Our parliamentary group has proposed that we reduce this rate to 10% and that would be a disbursement primarily of the real sector from the level of the profit tax rate. It would also be an additional impulse to attract foreign investment, but also to increase the business activity of the domestic real sector. The Law on Amendments and the Law on corporate tax will create conditions for the real sector, companies, cooperatives and other market participants to be distributed fiscally, through a reduction in tax rates on the profit of legal persons. Many countries in transition had relatively low profit tax rates and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument in the function of developing the economy and increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through an increase in exports. Dear People's MPs, with such a tax discharge, will begin to be created for investors and all those who now operate an attractive tax system in the service of the economy and a gradual increase in GDP, because no one here, of course, is naive that simply reducing the rate of income from 15% to 10% will solve all problems, above all, the structural problems of our economy, but can certainly be an important fiscal instrument for the recovery and growth of our economy. I think that's a good reason for you to vote to put the amendment of this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7871	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation of the building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on additions to the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the person responsible for the destruction of those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7872	Thank you. This is one of the laws, as well as those proposed by our colleague Balsa Bozovic, for which implementation does not need to provide any additional means that should be generally acceptable and for which it is truly strange why MPs of the ruling coalition do not want to talk about them, so that they should not be adopted. I believe that if not to you, then to the heads of your parliamentary groups, so please ask them to show you this letter, a letter has arrived from the Association of Parents of Missing Babies asking you as MPs to consider the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to support that law and to meet them to hear what it is these people have to tell you. One of the basic things that they resent about the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except that they feel that it does not even carry out the verdict that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had to implement almost two years ago, is that the law that you have proposed will eventually become obsolete. I don't know how you're not ashamed that for three years, I've been asking you to put in the Criminal Code a provision that the crime of stealing babies doesn't go out of date and they wrote a terrible sentence, and in that one sentence, I think they contained all their pain and all the problems they face. That's where they wrote-- that the investigation has to last until it's found either a child or a corpse. These are the things that these people live with every day, and these are the things that I ask you to put in the Criminal Code only one change, which is that crimes that don't get old are also the crimes of stealing babies. I hope you get a chance to read the letter that they sent to all the parliamentary groups. Your heads of Parliament, if those letters didn't come to you, please show you and ask for a third year in a row to find a way to help these people. It's as if everything they've survived so far is not enough, but they have to suffer this humiliation, and it's up to us to help them get out of it. You just have to accept that this one thing is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7873	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov proposed to supplement the agenda with a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7874	The bad education system is one of the basic reasons why we as a society cannot go in the direction that we want to move on assuming that it is a society that we want to build a knowledge society, a society where we value work, a society in which we have educated, thinking citizens who are able to critically look at the world around them, to improve the environment in which they live, and the problem is that our education system does not produce such citizens as we need for society modern, Europeans who want to develop, but rather, slows down exactly what is different, which exists among our children and tries to somehow frame all of our children who are so different to each other, with different talents, with different interests, with different opportunities, and make them sit in classrooms every day, seven, eight hours a day, to memorize, to then reproduce what they have learned. I think it's clear to everyone that we can't do 2016. 2017 and 2018 that we have an education system that is the same as it was 150 years ago. In all the areas of our society, we've had some kind of development. In all the areas of our daily life, we have amazing changes compared to what was 150 years ago. We drive different cars than 150 years ago, we use different phones than 150 years ago, we live in different homes than 150 years ago, and our classrooms and schools look absolutely the same as 150 years ago. The result is that our children are having a very bad time in international tests. The result is that our children leave school without knowing anything about what they were trained for. The result is that their success depends solely on whether parents have money or have no money to pay for private lessons. The result is poor children, and smart, very often they can't even get to college when there's still some possibility of getting a scholarship. And the result is that today we see as the biggest investment those investments actually bought, where the Republic of Serbia gives 10, 20, and 30,000 euros for jobs on which some 15 hours will stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7875	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7876	Thank you. When we adopted the Agricultural Land Act a while ago, among other bad things, one corrupt, harmful and scandalous provision was included in it that in every municipality in the Republic of Serbia the president of the municipality more or less of a free choice, without any public call, without any competition and without any laws defined by criteria, perhaps one third of the land in that municipality should assign to the investor, or call the investor, by choice, which means that more than 10,000 families in Serbia, who live exclusively from taking state agricultural land and processing it, will be left without any income. This policy of yours, that you assign different privileges to business partners, in addition to the law of the Republic of Serbia, so that you call it investments, is something that is unique to you. The only investments that have come to Serbia in the previous four years are those investments that your business partners have received, to which neither the laws nor the rules, nor the prohibitions, nor the rights, nor the courts, nor anything else. But the fact that you directly leave more than 10,000 farmers without bread, should at least make you imagine, and at least make you do what I propose by this bill, which is to create criteria by which these people will get land. Do not give your business partners a third of the best and best quality state-owned land of free choice, do not leave farmers with bad land, with lower quality land and do not deny them the only source of income they have. Let's make the criteria, see who can get that land, under what conditions the country can get. It's simply that what you've done with the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land really brings a large group of people to the edge of existence and you're going to make them work for the next 30 or 50 years as peers on the agricultural land of your business partners, who only got this property because they're close to you or someone from the top of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7877	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be completed with the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7878	There are three laws that make up the magical circle of our poor education system. These are the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which deals with primary and secondary education, the Law on Higher Education, and the Law on textbooks, which deals with basic teaching tools in our schools. Obviously, the textbook market is interesting for many. It is a large market, has regular customers, has customers who do not ask how much the textbook costs or what quality, and has customers, or the parents of students who, regardless of all the shortcomings and markets and products and education, will, of course, buy every product found on that market, because in our schools teachers require that children have textbooks. These three laws don't know which ones are worse, they don't know which ones produce worse results, and they don't know which ones are far more harmful in the long run for what's going on in our schools. When we passed the law, we saw that there were some on the market, which Minister Verbic called pressurers. He, if you remember, first appeared with one bill, then said he had withdrawn the bill under certain pressure, and now we see that some have already established a monopoly on the market, although the laws of the Republic of Serbia should prohibit them from such a thing. But obviously, there is a great need for us to edit not only the textbook market, but also what it says in those textbooks. What it says in those textbooks is tragic. They're full of mistakes. They're too heavy. They're too expensive. They're obsolete. They're unquality. They make the children sit day by day and learn by heart. That's not the problem with the textbook publisher, that's the problem with our education system, because the textbook follows what's the curriculum and the program. Until this is resolved, and I am deeply convinced that it can only be solved when this government or any government run by the Serbian Progressive Party leaves power, let's see what we can do with the textbooks from which our children are learning today. I think it's our obligation here to talk, and if you don't think so, let's hear what you think we need to talk about, not just sit back and shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7879	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7880	Thank you. So this is the last law in this group of education laws to define our education system. We had amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education a while ago here in the Assembly and to the insistence of students who were the first and second generation of Bolognans who contacted us, my colleague, our colleague from the Democratic Party, Balša Bozovic placed on the board one topic that we agreed on, it was the conclusion of the board, it was an agreement with the minister, that children who were the first and second generation students enrolled in the Bologna system were allowed to do so without the uniform costs of teaching the study, because we also made it possible for those who had enrolled the university years before them, those who studied longer than them, and we did not allow those who had enrolled later. After that session, the minister instructed the colleges and universities to make such a provision possible. They are children who, if it remains as planned, will surely stop studying because they need to pay several hundred thousand dinars to continue these studies. And it happened that some colleges listened to the Minister, listened to the National Assembly, listened to the Founder, and some colleges decided to ignore it and to lose tens, hundreds and thousands of students who interrupt for the sole reason that their parents and their parents can no longer finance the fabulous scholarships for which they, by the way, are told, and do not really know what they get during the year. I think it is impossible to work in a situation, Mr. Atlagic would say – in which the deans are masters of life and death in colleges. I think we need to create a system in which higher education will be what higher education must look like because we need to be aware that what our higher education is today, that will be our country in five, ten, fifteen and twenty years. So, maybe students make up a small part of our population, but they make up 100% of our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7881	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7882	Thank you. On the night of March 13th 2015, in a tragic way, the death of seven people, the rescue mission ordered by the order, without respect for co-ordination, by then by Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic. The two commissions were doing all the procedures, all the disrespect of subordination and tried to give answers to the reasons that led to this tragedy. Two questions have run out of answers, which I believe we are under obligation to find answers in this assembly, by establishing a committee of inquiry. The first question left without an answer is – from whom did the defence minister receive information that there is a need, on what basis did he estimate that there was a need to send a helicopter to a rescue mission of a baby trapped in a hole in Serbia? Who informed him? How did he learn to act as he did, in violation of co-ordination, not to inform, how do the regulations and the laws of the military and the defence warrant, general in co-ordination? That question has no answer and gives birth to doubt. Unfortunately, events over the last year and a few days show that we have the right to suspect that this is a mockery of the rule of law, a mockery of our own responsibilities that resulted in the death of seven people, only one in a series that neither feels guilty of conscience nor responsibility. The second question that has no answer is – who changed the flight plan when pilot Omer Mesic headed for Belgrade? Why is there no such information in the reports of both committees? Why was private phone communication used? Two key questions without key answers, in months of rejection, in the days after the accident, slandering pilot Omer Mehic, inadmissible, inadmissible and forever marked as shame on the lips of anyone who dared to mourn him. So, in the days after that, we had information that the deputy public prosecutor said there was no basis for the investigation. Then we received information that no such decision was ever made and that she had gone to the notaries. Because of all of this, I am absolutely certain of the unaccompanied pain of family members of these seven helicopters, I can assure you that I will never give up my search for those responsible for the deaths of the innocent seven people in the fall of helicopters.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7883	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nada Lazic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 8, against – for – there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7884	Thank you. I have proposed to amend this law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act for several reasons. Nearly ten years have passed since the Law on Agricultural Land was adopted, which was then aimed at allowing non-functional land outside the reach of small agricultural producers on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and above all on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, to come into the hands of small agricultural producers. It was only a year before small agricultural producers were required to reach land and allow for the first time surplus in the export of agricultural products from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Just eight years after that, the government led by Aleksandar Vukic nearly two years from today has done a completely opposite process and a third of the best land, primarily AP Vojvodina, in principle an idea developed by Max Magnus in Alan Ford, invented by Superhik, designed a law that would take away a third of the best land and the chances of getting small agricultural producers from the territory of the AP Vojvodina of the Republic of Serbia and put into the hands of foreign investors. The reasons he explained for the change of the law with Minister Dinkic at the time were many. First of all, he said no one would invest in the agrarian because the plots were cut. No one explained to him how large parcels are in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and then he said – if we change the law, the famous Arabs will come and they will increase the yield of four to five times the agricultural products per hectare of AP Vojvodina, and then he said he would put almost a million hectares under irrigation, with the same Mladjan Dinkic in 2013. It's been two years since this law, I've tried to ask carefully through agricultural stations and peasants in Vojvodina, whether this Arab who made 140 tonnes per hectare of corn was born, as recommended by the Minister of the then, the first Deputy Prime Minister, and the current Prime Minister. One reason is that if he was born like that, he would have won the Nobel Prize at the same time. We've also looked at how the land is irrigated, the figure is the same as it was before, and there's no reason in this law. The reasons in this law are deeply corrupt in order to allow private investors to pay hundreds of thousands of hectares of land for private talks with the prime minister, tennis and others, and to take the land out of the hands of the peasants only in one illegal way. They know best how it happened, peasants, say, from Bačka Palanca, first of all from Obrovec, Nova Gajdobra, Dovarsheva, Mladenova, who, with the same combinations of the Prime Minister, have lost their land and today are peasants but homeless.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7885	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted— 159 MPs, of a total of 175 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7886	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am sorry that our MP Balsa Bozovic was not there to explain his laws, because he was unjustly excluded and away from the session. However, to return to changes and additions to the Police Act. I hope that the ruling majority will propose amendments to the Law on Police to enter the agenda, so that they do not, what happened to the 27th with the Ministry of Defense, i.e. The soldiers of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party is proposing amendments and additions to the Police Act precisely because the life of every member of the police comes first. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Police Law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary, given the state of the interior ministry members. The state of the interior ministry is extremely bad, so bad that you from the Serbian Progressive Party bought them one pay cut, and then you bought them another pay cut, and then you took away their daily allowance. Today, those who risk their lives provide us and our country work for a 150 dinar daily. For that diary they can buy an empty muffin and a glass of yogurt, which is a shame in 2016. Two key changes and additions to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the police system and, in accordance with that, personnel schools at the Police Academy. We happen to have educated young, educated staff coming out of the Police Academy, and they can't find a job at the Ministry of the Interior, but rather some sort of Dijana Hrkalovic, who didn't even walk past the police station, let alone that he's trained in a system like the Ministry of the Interior. The second provision of Article 172(2) shall be deleted from the prejudgation of innocence and that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that the Democratic Party proposes to delete this member. The member is subject to corruption, simply against any member of the interior ministry, anyone, even some Aleksandar Martinovic can now file criminal charges and the member automatically remains without a job until the court is over. We know the state of the courts, we know how much it takes to bring a case to an end, and that opens up the possibility of police corruption, and we suggest that Article 172(2) of the Police Act be deleted. Police must reform in one modern, one generally accepted and one European way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7887	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted - 157 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7888	I know there's a problem with the SNS lines when anyone in the DS picks up a word, but I'm asking you to bring order to the session, that no one throws it to us as we propose amendments and additions to the law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Social Protection Act is contained in the provision of Article 97(8). The Democratic Party proposes concrete solutions, which is a concrete solution to ensure that all students whose parents do not work are provided free textbooks by the ministry, provided free transportation from home to school and free lunches. Unfortunately, today in 2016, we have 50,000 students who are covered by primary and secondary education, who cannot afford themselves or whose parents cannot provide lunch during the day, while on the other hand Minister Alexander Vulin, who is in charge of them, is checking the water temperature in the most expensive hotels such as Hayat. It's inadmissible and it's not politics and it's not the portfolio and it's not the state that it's being stood for and what the DS will be up for. Unfortunately, we have a recent example of a Moll boy who took his own life because he couldn't secure a ride from home to school. Before that, he left the third grade of school in Vienna. That's not the way this country, hopefully, this government, wants to go. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population is unfortunately only 16%. The Democratic Party also proposes this concrete solution and here we propose amendments and additions to the Law and I hope you will accept them, which is that for all parents, i.e. for all those who cannot provide themselves with free out-of-body fertilisation, the state provides free out-of-body fertilisation. We have, of course, 38,000 people this year less than it was last year. These are the data that are relevant and about these things we here as MPs have to take care of. Serbia is the leader of the region, as you say from the SNS, but unfortunately Serbia is the leader in the region only at the risk of poverty. This is where we are in the first place in Europe. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we must not allow our children to be hungry, as we must not allow our children to be hungry every day, and every day 50,000 children are hungry, while a criminal like Zvonko Veseinovic is charged with corruption contracts in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The DS fought against such a Serbia in the 1990s, and the DS will fight against such a Serbia today in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7889	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 154, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Radoslav Milojic is based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really not clear to me that the ruling majority does not want to accept any proposal on amendments and amendments to the law regardless of which MP from the opposition has proposed. Only DS has over 14 proposals on amendments and amendments to the law. Is it possible that none of these laws deserve to be found on the agenda? What one of my colleagues said, which I very much respect, Mrs. Komic, does not matter who is proposing amendments and additions to the law, it is important what these amendments and amendments of the law are, so I hope you will read the amendments and additions of the laws proposed by the entire opposition, especially from the DS. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law on Local Self-Government is contained in the provision of Article 97(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS amendment and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, because life comes first. So the DS proposes a concrete solution to returning five billion dinars to local self-government, as you and your coalition partners have taken away from them. You didn't take money from local self-governments, you didn't take away the presidents of municipalities and officials, you took money from Serbian citizens from Surdulica to Sudotica. Since you SNS, as you say, no longer advocate for the borders of Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovica, but now, as you say, you stand for the values of the EU, although we don't see it, we see that by day with a sock on your foot you stand for EU values, and at night with that same sock on your head, you tear down objects in Savala and you call on European laws to see how it is in EU countries. It is the European Charter, signed by the DS, i.e. The Republic of Serbia said in 2007, political, administrative and financial independence is guaranteed to all local self-governments. Of course, there is no political independence of local self-government in Serbia, of course there is no financial independence of local self-government either. In the EU, half of budget revenues belong to local self-government, while in Serbia, the percentage is truly devastating. Local self-government, i.e. The municipalities and cities and AP Vojvodina account for 10.2% of the budget, while all other money goes to the central level of government. Nine times more money has a central level of government than local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. Ladies and gentlemen of the SNS, since 2012, you've taken over 50 billion away from municipalities and cities. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia, reducing our...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7891	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, v – one, abstention – no one voted 158 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7892	Of course, it's a rare opportunity to get a word, so that's not to be rejected. Thank you, Chairman. You gave the date when this bill was renewed, a year and a half ago it was first proposed. I think the whole of Serbia knows the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which is flood, eruption, inflation, the largest number in the history of the number of plagiarized diplomats and PhDs in the state of Serbia. The flood of that dirt is the highest in the highest levels of government, so we have, obviously, that's the case with the president of the state, with the interior minister, with the mayor of Belgrade and dozens, dozens and even hundreds of examples in other places, on some other levels. What's the idea? The idea is to add point 1a to Article 4 after point 1), which is academic honesty, and after Article 5, a new member, Article 5a, reads – academic congratulation, Article 5a, academic integrity is based on independent works, as well as on strict respect for other people's copyrights. It's not just a matter of good education, it's not just a matter of academic honesty in philosophical terms, it's a matter of crime, it's a matter of protecting other people's rights. Mass, I repeat, Ph.D., diplomats and some other titles were obtained by someone prescribing other people's words, which means he used someone else's property to get some illegal benefit, and that's called crime, and we all know that. It's completely pointless why we don't have the will to first and foremost wash the ruling party and its coalition partners from that mess that's been here for the last four, five years. Of course, there has been a plagiarism before, there is no doubt, but such an eruption, such a large number, is indeed the first time in Serbia's history, and certainly, unlike many other things, that we are leaders in the region. Some are fighting to catch up with us, but I see these phantom Megatrend universities are struggling to stay at the highest level. We have a lot of examples that government officials are involved in such dirty work, by handing over, by being members of the defense committee, and that's something that should be interrupted. I expect the government to accept, if not today, this proposal in a new draft law on education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7893	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. National MP Zoran Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7894	And this law has been proposed once again. It was first proposed a year and a half ago, there early in 2015, with the ambition that a good law, such as this proposal, would introduce order in the matter of planning and construction, and it is obvious that there was no order, that it was neither at the time when the law was proposed nor at the time when the law was re-proposed nor today. I remind you once again, this is practically an innovative version of the Construction Act, which was adopted in 2003, which then had ambition and quality enough to seduce order in this area, but by changing the government in 2004 and beyond, this law was practically not implemented, so that some of the highest levels of government also abused personal matter in this area contrary to this same law. What's the basic idea? The basic idea is that without a building permit, which proposes all previous permits, construction cannot begin, and whoever tries to do so is being punished by a prison sentence, and that is the only way to solve it. Of course, this did not happen because most of the authorities of the time, who later changed, would probably have to be behind bars because they did something similar. A law on legislation was passed, if I remember correctly, at the end of last year, which was meant on the other hand to solve the problem of illegal construction in Serbia. It is presented as a miracle unseen that, of course, as well as everything that comes from the kitchen of Alexander Vukic and his associates, will solve all possible problems. The deadline was, as I recall, the end of last month to implement the law, to write down all illegal objects that have several hundred thousand, and the results were that maybe thirty thousand of these objects were listed, that it was practically not legalized even 10% of the lists, let alone the total number. Making a good law on planning and construction would prevent all these crimes from being repeated in the future, and this chaos that we still have today from "Beograd on water" to virtually all the construction sites that we have in Belgrade and Serbia, and on the other hand we need to see a way to improve the Law on Lawmaking, because this is obviously not produced by the fact that it is proposed and voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7895	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 160, out of 172 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly, in most cases, did not accept this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915-1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7896	And this resolution had its prime minister nearly two years ago when it was also an anniversary of the genocide that was condemned in the good part of the world regardless of the political and historical positions that these countries have taken and have taken in history. I'll only read you one part of the country. That's over 20 of them. Among them are the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, some states in the United States, and many others that are in the right way, in actual words without being transferred and connotation to our modern moment condemned by the genocide that the Ottoman Empire carried out according to the Armenians. At the beginning of today's session, we had a proposal from colleagues from Dvera who was related to genocide against Serbs and others in Croatia, and I think it's a good proposal. I think the history of genocide intentions, and especially the history of successful genocide intentions, is something that, above all, we Serbs and citizens of Serbia should try to bring to the light of the public with the most elite. We are a people, not just us, many peoples in our environment, but we as Serbs were victims of genocide intentions, some of which were successful in their near and further history. The argument more to our support for the fair condemnation of such behaviour towards our people, to the citizens of Serbia at all, is that we support it, to show that we have this level of empathy, awareness, solidarity, understanding of other people's sufferings and troubles, and to adopt a resolution that I have told you is supported by practically all relevant states that are on the world's political scene today. I call on you to think again about it, along with the fence of course that the genocide of the Ottoman Empire has nothing to do with today's Turkey, or with any state that could possibly be recognized in what happened 100 years ago. This is a question of condemnation of what happened 100 years ago, as a science, as a memory, as a preventive action so that no one ever comes up with such a thought again, such an idea that, no matter what we're in the 21st century, we try something like that. I think our interest in that is greatest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7897	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7898	That's right. That's two laws, this one and this one. The Act amending the Law on the financing of political activities aims to delete Article 3(3) in this law. What's the point? The essence of this proposal is to eliminate the possibility of commercial propaganda of political parties participating in the elections, to eliminate the possibility of, above all, national money, the money of Serbian citizens, the money of taxpayers being spent on this purpose, because this money is much, much more necessary for many other purposes where we lack money. I think there is no doubt that we will agree that there is no money missing for the treatment of children, that there is no money for the treatment of our citizens who are sick of diseases that can't be treated with us, that there is no money for the equipment of educational, cultural, social, educational institutions, and parallel to that in each election cycle, and election cycles in Serbia are more common than the extraordinary press conference held by the Serbian Prime Minister, to spend dozens and tens of millions of euros of people's money to advertise political parties, and that applies to all parties. And for the one who is now leading and in power. The same attitude was mine five, six years ago when the advances were not in power. That should be lifted. There are many countries that have far fewer economic problems where commercial advertising of political parties is forbidden, and here I mean the election cycle. There's no advertising in the extraordinary cycle. That goes for the UK, that goes for France, that goes for Spain and many other countries. We'll have the presidential election in six months or less. Other elections for the city of Belgrade are also mentioned, for the parliament we are sitting in today. If we don't pass this law, every commercial that's published on television or in the paper will be kidnapped from sick children, kidnapped from children who are educated in schools where they don't have basic teaching elements, elements for the normal 21st century teaching, and somewhere they don't have those toilets that someone said they'd solve. We will spend dozens and maybe 100 million euros through this campaign, and that is necessary for the treatment of children, for the treatment of people who cannot be treated with us and for many parts of our lives that are much more important than pointless TV ads by politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7899	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7900	It is the second law of these two who are related to the same topic, which is a ban on commercial advertising of political parties, political paperholders and participants in the elections with the aim of throwing people's money for this purpose, an obscenity, aesthetically and morally unacceptable transfer, and that money should be directed to places where it is necessary. I said just before some country where it was banned, so let me read an even better list: Great Britain, Holland, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain are just some of the states. So I repeat: Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland and Spain. Even richer countries than Serbia. The miracle of Alexander Vukic still hasn't led us to the level of standards they possess, so they don't throw money to paint their politicians senseless, unfounded, false, cultural, morally unacceptable messages, but they use that money for much more important things. Of course, in order for Serbian citizens to be able to get a political message from all participants in the elections and without commercial advertising, which means, above all, public service, which I hope has included transmission, for other major TV and for serious press and for the less serious and the most serious, to introduce an obligation to organise TV duel shows involving representatives of various parties, various political lists participating in these elections, various candidates. This would lead to the breaking, in the best possible way, fear of Alexander Vukic being in a TV duel with any political opponent. I've offered him that a dozen times, some of my colleagues have repeated it, none of it. They'll think he's afraid of us, and he'll probably have another obligation. Let's bring him to these mandatory TV duels and show him his knowledge in front of us. This is how, I repeat, in the next election, when they are presidential, when they are local, when Serbian citizens are parliamentary, when you see an ad by some political party that costs several tens of thousands of euros one of its broadcasts is not television, you should know that 15% of all sick children in Serbia or 10% for the treatment of all people who cannot be treated in Serbia are being treated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7901	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one with abstentions—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7902	I just got off the phone with the health issue. The same is mentioned here in an even more important context, which is, my proposal, that in the Government Act, Article 11 is changed and that there is – health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, and then that member would vote – before the government is elected, every proposed member of the Government has to provide medical assurance about the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies still goes that he cannot be in another public position, that he cannot perform where he is in conflict of interest and that he complies with the regulations governing conflict of interest etc. What's the point? The point is that when someone wants to get a job in Serbia in most jobs, the majority of the competition requires medical confidence about the ability to do the job. The same goes for people who are employed in the public administration. In the government, bureaucracy, public enterprises, it just doesn't apply to the top, and ministers and assistant ministers and directors of public enterprises are building a working relationship with the state, so I guess they should have the same treatment. It's necessary to prevent us from seeing some amazing things that have appeared so far, not only with this last government, but especially with it and in that composition, and in this coalition that supports it, which is that we have all kinds of amazing things. Imagine someone saying that the facilities in some part of Belgrade that someone knocked out in the middle of the night with the phantoms were only barracks that were without permission and which should be torn down, otherwise by day. Or someone to tell you that we've never had a standard like this before, as we have now, nor this kind of employment, as we have now, nor that we're leaders in the region in all areas. You can see right away that's not normal. This law would prevent that from happening. It would be prevented and if someone with the highest function promises I'll visit a thousand toilets of health care facilities, I'll solve everything. When he didn't visit, he didn't solve it. When someone sees a coup every day, when they have a permanent mania of prosecution, whether political or human. These are all things that could be prevented if my law was passed where every candidate for any function must go first for review.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7903	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. And your last proposal is to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: They threaten me with the phone. Here's the phone number. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7904	The proposal earlier was a proposal to amend the Government Act where candidates for government members were scheduled to undergo a normal, logical medical examination necessary for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies. This law, which is precisely called the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, also provides for the President. And that's very good. If that's already true for ministers, I think we'll agree that it's important to be sure of the candidate's health skills before they put themselves on the election list, whether they're capable of something like that. I'm talking about physical ability, I'm talking about mental ability. Of course, there are such checks, they are passed for laying for professionals, for managing motor vehicles, when a license to own or carry weapons etc. is obtained. I suppose if such a check is necessary for the place of porter or guardian of the Serbian Parliament, it is logical that such a check is also necessary for candidates for ministers, in this case for a candidate for president of the state. Surely, it does not depend on the will of any individual in this country that, sometime in April of next year, we will have the president's election and so I think the right moment is, now, the last chance, the last chance to adopt this bill and that future candidates for the president of the state pass that medical examination. This would prevent many potentially negative things. I know this may not have happened by now, but imagine choosing a president who sees yellow people, who looks at cards or a ball crystal when there's going to be some yellow, some blue, some green, and then he sees some channels that connect the Black plum and the Aegean plum, it's physically impossible, but he can do it in his head. So he sees the rakia, so he sees things like that, so I see by your reactions that you are aware of these dangers too, and so I ask you to do what is good for the citizens of Serbia, which is to prevent them and also apply to the government, but in the first step to get a president who can think of such things, because that is proof that he is not a normal man and health couldn't go through.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-04-0.u7905	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Tomic proposed to conduct a joint principled single search on: Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the 2016 Financial Fund for Health Insurance, Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the 2016 Financial Fund for the European Social Insurance Fund, Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the 2016 Financial Fund for the Health Insurance Fund, Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2016, Proposal for a Law amending the Social Insurance Fund for the European Social Insurance Fund for the period 2016, Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 with a proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Plan for the National Employment Service for the year 2017, Proposal for a Law amending the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2017 on the financial year 2017 on the implementation of the Financial Fund for PIO for 2017, the financial year 2017 on the financial year 2017 on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017 on the implementation of the financial rules for the financial year 2017. Does MP Aleksandra Tomic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) You said why you were reporting for not referring to the session. My behavior... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: He behaves, because I received threats, I have saved messages. Please, don't do it again, it's really boring already, sit down, please. Please, let us vote. We're in the voting process, I apologize to my colleagues if you voted? It's not easy for me to run a session if someone keeps yelling at me. (Radoslav Milojic, from the site: I received four messages of threat. I hereby conclude the vote and declare... Please don't. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What don't you? ) “What do you mean? “, ” says the MP. I hope the citizens look at it all the time and watch it when it's a mess. There was – 150 against – 16 with abstentions – no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on the agenda, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that the vote is 150, against – 27, abstentions – no, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fifth Session, the second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is being attended by all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in addition by State Secretarys at the Ministry of Finance, Assistant Minister for Labour and Employment and Combat and Social Affairs and Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Finance. I would ask the parliamentary groups if they did not do so immediately to file a statement with the order of Members of Parliament under Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. So I got a notice that all the MP groups did it. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly open a joint, principled and uniform review on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2016, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2016, the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision on amendments to the 2016 amending the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the period 2016, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2016, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 with a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for the 2016 PIO, the Proposal for a Law amending the Financial Fund for the financial year 2017 on the financial year 2017 on the financial year 2017 on the implementation of the financial rules for the implementation of the financial year 2017. Please wait two minutes to see if and when the minister is able to present the draft budget. Please just stay so long, we'll keep doing it, just so I can figure out how much time we need. One minute, two minutes. I'll be right back. [[after breaks]] Dear MPs, since I consulted with the Finance Minister's Office, he has informed me that he can present the draft budget to you tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. I've been asked by several MPs from the opposition to do so tomorrow, so I'm showing my great flexibility, and I'm going to meet some opposition MPs, but I'm not going to tell them who they are that they're not uncomfortable with. We will continue our work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m., with the Minister of Finance's exposé, and all other members of the government will join us. Thank you.
