ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3579	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3580	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer the first question to the finance minister, Mr Dusan Vujovic, as regards the new rules on the registration and registration of VAT which will enter into force on 1 January 2017. What I have to ask the Honorable Minister is something I said and in the debate that was brought about when the amendment of the VAT Act was made, in the autumn, or October 2015, and when I expressed concern from this very place, that these amendments of the Law would bring a very complicated procedure to all legal persons in the Republic of Serbia, who reported or recorded VAT under the new Law, that is, by the new rules to be adopted. Unfortunately, I was right. The association of Serbian accountants and respected experts suggest that the new VAT application will be so complicated, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, that there will be a need for new tables, i.e. 13 new tables and 155 new items, which will apply and I am rightly asking myself, on behalf of all of us, is it possible that we will, of course, invest and capitalism, and on the other hand, want socialist accounting? It is something that hurts me and as an MP, I must say that, when the Law on VAT was adopted here in the National Assembly, or the amendment of the Law, it was in the explanation that it would not bring any new costs to legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, this proved to be incorrect, as the specialized site of Neobilten has already calculated that only new software and new people who must be engaged in bookkeeping and specialised agencies will need more than fivem euros to spend money. My call to the finance minister is that we have quite enough time, now half of October, until January 1st, when this new rule should come into force, to make one deal, one compromise, and that such a rigid rule is not applied, but that with professional associations, a rule is made that does not require such a complicated and expensive procedure. My second question was referred to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, and as regards the questions I have asked several times in the previous meeting of this Parliament, which is a premium for milk for small producers, which hand over less than 3,000 liters of milk quarterly. Today in Serbia, in order for someone to charge a milk premium of seven dinars, the price of milk is 22 to 25 dinars, at least 3,000 liters of milk, or more than 33 liters a day. What is a big problem, and I will only give you two milkmakers from central Serbia, i.e. buying milk on the territory of Kragujevac, Topola and Arangelovac, which are "Milkom" City and "Kuch" Kragujevac, for example. "Milkom" buys out 260 owners from the territory of Stragar, Topola and Arangelovac, and out of them only one fifth has the right to make a premium. I think it's important for all of us who are also Members of the people here and who are of course parents and who have little children to be interested in drinking quality milk and what I think is important for us as taxpayers to subsidize something that has quality, not quantity and quantity, and I think it's important and important for all of us that the milk that teaches has quality and that it's not disputed to get a premium. Like this, here's the thing. in other ‘Kuch’ dairies from Kragujevac, which buys from some 2,500 landlords milk from the territory of Kragujevac, Topola and Arangelovac, where literally every third or fourth producer has the right to make a premium. It is a major problem, plus the records, i.e. the application by the milkman to the Agrarian Payments Authority and their administration, which is quite slow and I ask the Honorable Minister Nedimovic to deal with it because this way a large number of small holdings will literally be extinguished. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider this question and find an adequate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3581	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3582	I thank the chairman. To avoid further living in confidence and to doubt that Serbia is a legal state, I would ask the MUP, Minister Stefanovic, to answer two questions. More specifically, as far as the investigation is concerned, and what the law enforcement authorities have had to do with this flow for two years since the attacks on bakeries in Vojvodina, owned by our fellow Albanians. Since a series of attacks were carried out on the night between 15th and 16th October 2014 after the football match Albania – Serbia, in my Vojvodina where I come from, more specifically on several bakers in Novi Sad, Stari Paz and Sombor. Some were set on fire, or fires were set, on others fired from firearms, and on the third, a bomb was dropped, and to this day none of the cases were received by a court epilogue, and I'd like to know what stage the investigation took, and what happens to the data that the law enforcement authorities came up with? The second issue also concerns the same ministry, where we have equal rights and justice, and that is why police, or law enforcement authorities, have done nothing to prevent the gathering of the Constitution of the banned Clerofascist organisation "Face" on 24 September this year. So just a few days ago, this organisation gathered with several other right-wing organisations in the middle of Belgrade and held a protest in which the constitution was banned in 2012 and its, I still assume, the president spoke. I just want you to answer those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3583	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3584	A question for the president of the Republic, to whom the mandate will soon expire, and which team has announced that he thinks he owes the citizens another term. I don't know on what basis he concluded this because he owes citizens first of all the answers to many questions and many explanations, and it would be good for the officials to put up accounts at the end of their mandates and give the necessary explanations. In the first place, why does the President of the Republic constantly question Serbia's European path, raising doubts that he does not know what is at the end of the road or by opening suspicion that someone has something against Serbia, of course thinking west? Why he did not use his reputation to contribute to regional co-operation, but rather to every spark in the region he actually poured oil on the fire. Why did he put private and personal interests ahead of the state, in several cases, where he humiliated both domestic authorities and judicial authorities? And why did he appoint the Honorary Consul Genadi Timchenk, a Russian billionaire, who is under the sanctions of the United States and on their "black list", question our relationship to the West, above all, our relations with the United States? Does it suit him that Mr Timchenko said Serbia has no interest in joining the EU and that the EU is against Serbia? How can it be accidental for him whether a person is on the blacklist or not, whether he cares about justice by being on a list like that? The only thing in that visit to St. Petersburg, Tomislav Nikolic, said, and what I could agree with, is that the best example of Russia and Serbia's co-operation is the sale of NIS, except I think, unlike him, that this is the most negative job, the worst sale, whose price we pay today is at the expense of all citizens. If nothing else, we charge that mining rent only 3%, although according to the laws of our country it is 7%, and we have concluded such a contract for 30 years. Finally, I would also ask for the appointment of an honorary consul, did the Foreign Ministry give any kind of consent and are there at all any criteria for setting up, or appointing a consul? Finally, to say that it is extremely unusual for the Prime Minister, who is otherwise prone to comment, to abstain absolutely and not comment on any statement or procedure by Tomislav Nikolic, which distances us from the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3585	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3586	Dear colleagues, I have a few short questions. The first question is for the prime minister and foreign minister of Mr Dacic - why did we give up, that is, why did the request from the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Djuric, for the issue of Trepce and the property of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija to be placed on the agenda of the Security Council? We heard the prime minister's oral response, but I think it deserves a more detailed and concrete response, both from the foreign minister and the prime minister. I should not stress the importance of the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, no matter how important one part of our political elite tries to push it under the carpet and act as if it does not exist, but unfortunately our friends, with or without quotes, from the world and Europe daily remind that this thing is still present and that we want to admit it or not, the issue of Eurointegration is related to the issue of acceptance or reconciliation with Kosovo's independence and Metohija. In that light, I think that the lack of this on the agenda of the Security Council is also the issue of Trepce and Serbian property in Kosovo and Metohija, in fact, is a kind of withdrawal and capitulation on behalf of that absolute deity of Eurointegration. The second question, and the first one, is intended for the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Maji Gojkovic – why not put on the agenda and when will he put on the agenda thematic session of the Serbian Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija in light of the current problems and this crisis around Trepce and property in Kosovo and Metohija? In other words, we only had a second session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee yesterday. The Committee on Culture and Information, whose member I am, has so far had six, at least six, if not seven sessions. I do not believe that culture and information in Serbia, however big the problem, is that they are bigger problems than Kosovo and Metohija, so that the Committee on Culture meets six, seven times, and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija only two. So I think it's necessary to put and make here a thematic session dedicated to it. The third question, and perhaps most importantly, given this precisely these days, I am asking the question of the interior minister, of course, and the prime minister, what is the role, or what is their knowledge of the role of Mr. General Bratislava Dikic now in Montenegro and Montenegro's elections, and what do they know about whether they are a terrorist group or are actually a group hired by the current Montenegrin authorities to serve for pre-election purposes, i.e. serve the Montenegrin regime to create drama about the alleged coup and thus actually correct their outcome in Sunday's elections? I say this team before it is known, although the public did not know enough Mr. Dikic's role, who had three years ago in the local elections in northern Kosovo and Metohija, when Mr. Dikic, and many witnesses for it, and publicly performed, proposed to Serbs from the north to break boxes, or to kidnap boxes, which they, of course, refused, and in the end it happened by unidentified and unknown persons under phantoms. So, since we already have experience and our authorities have experience with Mr. Dikic in this role, it would be interesting to ask and find out what they think and what the Prime Minister and Interior Minister know about it. Finally, the last question, very briefly, also at the expense of the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, how is it possible that death, of course, is tragic, but the death of one convicted drug dealer, Mr. Salet Mutavo, becomes a subject in such a way that the Prime Minister or Prime Minister has taken it twice in the last month, two days in his mouth, either in a neutral or in a positive context? How is it possible for a convicted drug dealer to be free and lead a fan? And in that light, is it known that Mr. Sale Aleksandar Stankovic was a member of the SNS? I'm saying be, I'm not getting into whether he was at the moment of his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3587	Time, colleague Vukadinovic. Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first question concerns the resolution ministries of agriculture, trade and economy. Why does Serbia, by its reputation in France and other European countries, not make the rules on the mandatory labelling of the origin of the products so that consumers know whether they buy imported meat and milk and their processing from animals fed by feed on raw materials from genetically modified organisms? The second question, why does the Public Advocate appeal any solution to the Republic Geodetic Institute on the translation of assets into cooperatives from social to cooperative property, which is in line with the provisions of the current Cooperative Act and thereby slows down the process of the property and financial consolidation of cooperatives and prevents them from doing normal business? The next question is the Republic Property Directorate – how much immovable and mobile property has the Republic Property Directorate taken over from cooperatives by type of assets from the application of the provisions of Articles 154 and 157 of the previous Cooperative Act until a new law is passed? The next question – why did the tenant Slavko Pavlovic from the village of Nakovo, who took 50 hectares of state land for a 20-year long-term lease, and raised 50 hectares of modern apple and pear plantations, could not get confirmation from the same ministry that he was allowed to plant the plant on that surface and thus lost his right to incentives of 60,000 euros? Next question for the Ministry of Agriculture – for whom is 250 hectares of first and second classes reserved in the area of the three Catastrian municipalities of Botoš, Banatsko Despotovo and Lazarevo, if the representatives of the Zrenjanin City Assembly did not discuss 500 hectares in the territory of the municipality of Zitište? I wonder if these potential investors have submitted any elaborates on the investment intentions, and who booked it before assessing the similarity of such investors? The next question – is there a state institution in Serbia that is competent to protect the human and economic rights of Serbian host Selimir Milovanovic from the village of Lopatanj in the municipality of Osecin, who bought a new tractor IMT 539 three years ago, which is commendable with the incentives of the Ministry of Agriculture? It is regrettable, however, that the purchased subsidized tractor from the first day with an invalid gear that the repairers have failed to repair four times, while the Serbian government has decided to shut down the IMT. Since he complained about over ten addresses of different ministries, the inspection and everyone had declared themselves, believed or not, incompetent, even twice addressed the cabinet of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, but no response. So, if it is not possible to find satisfactory satisfaction according to existing legal solutions, I suggest that MPs join us to make a Lex specialis for Selimir's tractor. Presidents of the National Assembly and the competent services in the Assembly – when will the Anglo-Saxon name of the domains of Parliament.rs and agree with the official name of the National Assembly, i.e. to read – the people's population.rs, as is the case with other countries that respect the official name of the highest legislative authority in their country? Three questions for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. As prime minister for the election of the new government, at the time of the exposé and the answer to the question concerning the same August 9th and 10th, he twice said, in my opinion, absolute untruths with two different but both incorrect arguments that the fourth tomato is a genetically modified product. I ask the Prime Minister to provide me with evidence in the form of an explanation on the basis of which he found that the four tomatoes were genetically modified or that they were publicly apologized to Serbian MPs and citizens, especially producers, importers and consumers, for tomatoes and especially for mothers who fed children and for four tomatoes. A second question for the Prime Minister, who is the prime minister for the election of the new government at the time of the exposé and the answer to questions concerning the same, I also find it untrue that there are two equal letters of Cyrillic and Latina in Serbia. I ask the Prime Minister to provide me with evidence in the form of an explanation on the basis of which he legally stated in the provision that there are two equal letters in Serbia or that he publicly apologizes to the MPs and to all Serbian citizens, especially the citizens of the majority Serb people who use a Cyrillic letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3589	Time, buddy, five minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3590	I have two questions addressed to the government and to the Minister of Science and Education, but I don't know how to direct them, which bathroom to send them a letter, because what we're doing here right now is quite unusual, we're talking to the government, and we don't know where the government is right now, but I'm going to move on to questions. For almost two years, the scientific public of Serbia has been upset, because basic science funding issues have not been resolved, which is why we have seen the fall of scientific results, and we have no registers of researchers, which all scientists, nor do we have any form of future funding. The introduction of a project system has shown that this may be true for some NGOs that receive a donation, and then it has some kind of project, but it's impossible to imagine the creation of a scientific rejuvenation exclusively based on projects. When a great student finishes his studies and gets a job at an institute, he has three, four years at least to prepare his doctorate. It's not included in anyone's project. What does that mean? It means total destruction of that project. They protest many scientific institutions from the academy to the institute community, absolutely without any results. The previous minister, Verbic, adopted some projects, called for a contest, then the government for general astonishment annulled its minister's decisions and then the matter returned to its beginning. We have a lot of anxiety in the scientific community these days. What concerns us, I know that society is making progress in something, in something it's turning back on. learns with every society, I know that we are making progress in the taxation of citizens and we have this tax discipline introduced, mentions and surpluses, and that's nice, but we also have a setback in science and reversing in education. Taxation is also the key for a year, to end some things, pay off, but this back-up in science and education leaves strategical profound traces. Many countries have just escaped from the backdrop, developing science and education. There is an example of Finland, Ireland and some other countries. We're not a rich country so we can throw away some kind of resources, so it'll cover everything for us. We have resources, young people who need to do science and follow what's happening in the world. The second question concerns education. I was proud of one liquid, where the Constitution is respected, and I barely fought it despite the resistance of many lobbying foreign publishers who tried to mine it. I've applied to Article 71. The constitution that says – everyone has the right to education. Article 2 – basic education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is free of charge. If something is mandatory, and according to the Constitution, it means that one who violates the obligation is subject to sanctions. Every parent who doesn't send a child to school gets punished. That's what the Constitution says, and the state makes its commitment, that at least that textbook that the child learns from, makes it free, which makes 90% of the countries that are developed in the world today. That's what we deafen ourselves to, because there's a lot of lobbys, there's billions in that twist, there's all kinds of textbooks, expensive textbooks, etc. We're talking about Natalie. What do you want a man with three kids who's supposed to go to school? He has to take a loan in the fall to buy textbooks to those kids, and he'd save money if it was free. We throw things at a lot of financial resources, but where it's most important to provide each child with a textbook, guaranteed by the Constitution, that was adopted. Our former coalition partners, the Socialists, agreed on it, and that, God knows how, we managed to propagate. In the end, it turns out there's nothing wrong with that. It's the first violation of the Constitution. I'm going to start a constitutional dispute about that, of course. Once again, let me warn you that basic things, such as science and education, we don't care. We've done an ideology of reverses here, and no one can deny the fact that our science teaches education below what was perhaps 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3591	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am referring to Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic – why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not react sharply to this hoax of world proportions they faced, when the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro placed across all the world agencies that Serbia had sent a group of terrorists to Montenegro to challenge the coup, to bring Djukanovic's regime down and arrest him? The news has played the whole world, and it's not worth defusing now. That's how much she seemed amazing at the first moment. The prime minister must not compete with former President Boris Tadic over who is a greater friend with the Montenegrin regime, but rather to launch an initiative, to meet the National Assembly at a special session and to discuss the situation in relations between Serbia-Montenegro, and especially with the aspect of the status of the Serb national minority in Montenegro, whose members have nearly 200 000, and who are oppressed there, are being forced to declare themselves as members of an imaginary nation, a non-existent language and a non-existent letter. An incredible counterfeiting of election results has now been carried out in Montenegro. Milo Djukanovic has inserted 20,000 names of non-existent people into the voter lists. He was massively buying ID cards so that those citizens who sell ID cards don't go to the election, that someone else goes instead and votes for him, and those citizens who got the money the next day show up on the counter and say we lost a ID card, look for a new one, or go back to the one they sold it to and tell us now give us back, now you don't need it anymore. The election was absolutely stolen. It is impossible in Pljelje that Milo Djukanovic has twice as many votes as all Serbian parties combined. Absolutely impossible. It is impossible in the coast, it is impossible both in Niksic and in Podgorica. It is high time for the Serbian National Assembly to deal with it. Especially now that we have been slandered, people from Serbia have been paid, and some are randomly arrested there to present to the public that they are terrorists who have come to deal with Djukanovic. It's a very serious matter. If we do not react resolutely, the people will tell you here is proof that Serbia is an aggressor country to hit again on Serbia. Less lies were made in 1999, so there was a foreign intervention. This lie was never seen by the world since Hitler's attack on Poland, when German soldiers changed into Polish uniforms and attacked the free city of Ancik. That's what Milo Djukanovic did to us. His mafia burns and burns in Serbia. His mafia dominates Serbia. Djukanovic's regime is headed by Brano Micunovic, not Djukanovic himself. Ivan Delic, the multiple murderer who killed Pavel Bulatovic, is their man. This is what our survey committee of both the Federal Assembly homes has shown, which has been investigating the facts of the murder of Pavol Bulatovic. You can't keep your mouth shut in front of that anymore. I know that Milo Djukanovic, in his day, has been kind to the advances. I also remember their meeting in Paris at the Ric Hotel, but here you now come to power, not to look back at earlier, but to take care of the fate of your people and state. Milo Djukanovic when he goes to prison, two, three times send him a pack of sausages and mandarins and repay him for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3593	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3594	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture a few questions. The first question is about the adoption of the rules on difficult working conditions in agriculture. The regulation was passed in April of this year and that rule is not good for areas from which I come, from southeastern Serbia. The rule provides the possibility that areas that are more than 500 metres above sea level, let's say we have two villages one is 500 meters, the other is 499, one village has the right to marginal assets. These are funds that are more favourable, which solves the problem of the milk premium as Mr Jovanovic said earlier, as these rights and subsidies for agriculture are much easier to achieve in marginal areas. I think the rulebook is bad. I called and talked to current Minister Nadimovic, and I hope we change that rule. The regulation is such that areas such as Svrlig municipality, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and that part of Southeastern Serbia where agriculture is a great opportunity, where villages are old there, we can give the change of rules the opportunity to allocate more funds and subsidies there and in such a way that people living there are left to live and to deal more seriously with agriculture. One question is about the commission, since all of us who deal with agriculture know that cohesion is the most important thing in agriculture, at the beginning of last year and this year, the commission was done in seven municipalities together. It's funded by the GIZ, a German organization, where their experts have passed certain regulations. They worked together with our experts and these rules would help solve the problem of our Serbia's membership. By the way, the rulebook that's used for the commercial is the 1977 rule. I think that the Land Administration should all give an emphasis together to change the rules, deliver new ones, and make more work in our Serbia. Another question, related to the Ministry of Finance, when we passed the Law on the financing of local self-government, is the issue, specifically, of returning the morning, of pastures to villages for use. The law was passed in 1992 and the aim of the law was to strengthen livestock farming, to increase livestock power. We are witnessing that without strong livestock, we have no agricultural development. The 1992 law did not produce results, so now in Serbia we have more than 200,000 hectares of farmland, which has no owner, or someone usurped it and used it without compensation. On the other hand, only individuals know about it. In the municipality of Svrljig we have over 4,500 hectares of such land returned to the villages for use, villages are old and villages no longer have enough people to use this land together with their neighbours, and on that land, according to the 1992 law, can only be a pond and that cattle farming can be done. I have submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Finance and I hope that we will have the opportunity to put the 1992 law out of force and to have local self-government so that they can dispose of this land and that it can be invested and built on that land, that they have the opportunity to finance local self-government, to employ people and to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3595	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3596	Thank you. The questions are for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. During the exposé, he was asked some questions he answered me so I'll repeat them. The Er Serbia company is making losses year after year. In 2015, she lost 45m euros, 75m euros earlier in 2014, and in half of 2013, when a foreign partner took over 35m euros. So only in the last two years is the loss of 120m euros. At the same time, Serbian citizens gave the 120m-euro subsidy to Er Serbia, and the government boasts that Er Serbia has become a profitable company. In addition, taxpayers took over Er Serbia's debts and paid about 150m euros, so a total of 270m euros have gone to Er Serbia in the last two years. The fiscal council informed us at a session of the Finance Committee that 20 billion dinars were taken from pensioners in 2015, or around 180m euros. My question for the prime minister is do pensioners actually subsidise Er Serbia? The second question concerns Jellyzara Smedereva. In 2014, Jelizara lost 134m euros when subsidies were excluded from 36. In 2015, she made a loss of 142m euros, a total of over 270m euros. I repeat, pensioners were kidnapped 180m euros in 2015, was that money taken by pensioners to fund the losses and incompetent management of Jelizara? Thirdly, we have held sessions on the investment, i.e. the loan we receive from Azerbaijan, i.e. the Azerbaijani company Azevirt, which is building part of the road from Belgrade to Cačka, which is part that is from Ljiga to Preljina. We've seen that they have a very favourable contract, they don't pay taxes at all, they don't pay customs duties, they don't pay taxes, they don't pay any taxes, so it's a question for the prime minister -- is it true that this company imports oil from Azerbaijan without paying customs, excise and VAT? How much oil are we talking about? Is it true that this oil is further reselling our subcontractors at full market prices and why is it so allowed? The second question on the same subject is - is it true that the company Azevirt has purchased the "Tavo" separation from which it extracts a twisted stone aggregate, which also sells to our subcontractors at 35 euros per metre cubic, while the market price is 21 euros per metre cubic? Why does the prime minister, or government, allow all agencies to behave like this and draw money from citizens of Serbia? On the other hand, our construction industry is failing. When will the prime minister stop signing and support contracts favoured by foreign investors at the expense of the domestic industry, where the domestic industry fails, foreign companies take a stake, and we know that whenever such deals are made that it is corruption and domestic corruption, rather than foreign? Then, the question is, the prime minister was in Toplička County yesterday, and he was talking about the Kursumlij Banja, which has been failing for years and, of course, accused some previous authorities of being guilty of it, not so many of the 90s, but after 5 October and back here. My question for the prime minister is – why for four years now, and in power for four years since 2012, nothing has been done to introduce it into the Kursumlij Banja, but is constantly being taken out to someone who has not done a job before. Does the Prime Minister know that this is 2016 and is no longer 2012 and when he will take responsibility, finally for what is happening in society and stop transferring responsibility to someone else? Then, the prime minister also said, "Familys in Serbia get 4,000 dinars for the first child, 11,000 dinars for the second and so on, minimum wages, and then they won't work." I'm asking the Prime Minister - when will he apologize to the foster parents for this extremely inappropriate statement? Finally, a question for the president of the National Assembly. The DJB parliamentary group is the fourth in power in the Republika Srpska Assembly and we have doubled support from elections to today. When will the final seating schedule in the National Assembly be made so that the fourth in force of the parliamentary group does not sit in the corner of the Assembly but to get a seat in the front row? I also ask the President of the Assembly not to answer these questions orally but to respect the Rules of Procedure and to give us a written reply within 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3597	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3598	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike the former failure of the bankruptcy manager, I'm going to ask some questions about the losses, but this time, I'm going to try to have concrete and accurate data, not some flat and incorrect data on some losses. My parliamentary question today points to the Ministry’s Ministry’s Ministry’s authority and to the investigation into the illegal, unconscious and harmful business of the Public Business Office for the Management of the Business Area “Vračar”. In the past, this public company for the section – believe it or not, has suffered huge losses, terrible losses, unreal losses, measured by hundreds of millions of dinars. Imagine the situation in which on Vrakar, Mr. Radulovic, the same Wizard from where the initiative for your shift went...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3599	You're not asking Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3600	... So, on Vrakar, perhaps even the most attractive business municipality, for renting out a business space, imagine that we are in a situation where the Public Business has claims not charged, with a final balance of nearly 800 million dinars. The audit, the official data, found that the total claims were almost 800 million dinars, i.e. 791 million 953 thousand dinars, respectively. Now, we might be able to partially, only in part to understand some of the reasons why, that we understand the situation that this company, in time, tried to fix the situation, tried to do something, tried to take all those laws, otherwise intended steps to pre-war one of these situations, but no. Obviously, former leadership, and I will remind you of which party has exercised power and not one mandate, but many mandates, which is DS with some coalition partners, or DS in several aggregate states, but it is obvious that this leadership was not interested. They let it go that way. Nothing to anyone. They thought they'd probably be in power most of the time. He won't. The citizens didn't accidentally clean you up in this election. Or they deliberately led him to ruin, and the logical conclusion is imposed in that sense – how else do we assess the fact that out of the total amount that I just made, nearly 800 million dinars, even 580 million dinars are in the process of obsolescence, 580 million dinars. Some preliminary data, Mr. Chairman, suggest that certainly of this sum of 580 million about 300, perhaps a little more than 300 million will be absolutely out of date, or we will have no right to claim that amount. For this second, if we fight, we fight for it, but 300 million for sure. Is that a little money? What could we have done for 300 million dinars? Did anyone ask themselves? I ask the question - who is responsible for 300 million dinars, safe 300? Whose responsibility is it? Is it ignorance, intricacies, or negligence, or all of the above? I believe it's all of the above, but I firmly believe it's another thing, which is crime, crime, ladies and gentlemen, thieving, deliberate conclusion of harmful contracts, and it's like a mass phenomenon. The intentional collapse of the system. How to explain a whole series of tenants, it's an unsightly series of tenants who haven't paid a dinar in years. How did this privileged type of tenant come about? Were they close, perhaps, DS? Were they perhaps in the ground with DS? A whole endless set of tenants who haven't paid the rent in years, in the name of the lease. Did they wonder what they could do for 300 million dinars? That's half the budget, people. It's not small money. How many kindergartens could have been renovated? How many health institutions? How many schools? How many watches for the Shooter to do? And who knows what else. That's how the DS ruled. It's a real example of how you rule, actually experiencing power by the DS, and then you wonder why the citizens wiped you out in these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3601	The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. (Sonja Pavlovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) There is no harm to the Rules of Procedure when asking parliamentary questions. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3602	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's issues suggest that agriculture and environmental protection are a dominant topic in Serbia and my question will refer to the minister of agriculture and environmental protection. In Serbia, very often as a popular solution to the suppression of weeds instead of incineration or some other method of plant residues is the use of herbicide, and we use "Total glyphosate", which is known as the Herbicit "Total". This is about systemic grebicide based on lyphosate with a broad fact that is very unselectively used in agriculture in Serbia for the control of weeds and thus leads to a very big problem that can cause this total herbicit, primarily because it is unequivocally and irresponsiblely used throughout Serbia in quantities greater than the law allows and regulations and very often because they are non-selective, they destroy every plant with which they come into contact. The example of the Netherlands, a country that has the most developed agriculture in the European Union, says that it has banned glyphosate and thus placed its regulations above those prescribed by the Commission of the European Union, which tells us that it is possible to have stricter laws than the European Commission or by the European Union. The example of the Netherlands tells us that it is possible to resist the interests of multi-companions and large chemical systems. We, as Green Serbia, within the SPS parliamentary group, are today raising this issue because we have also received reports from the University of Belgrade, we have received questions and complaints from hunting associations, natural associations, environmental societies and all with one appeal that total has toxicological facts on flora and fauna, particularly has an impact on birds and bees, and victims of irresponsible applications are often protected species. Common application of totals in quantities greater than the prescribed and irresponsible handling violates the biological balance and acts harmfully on the environment, primarily on land and water, but also through the food chain can endanger the health of citizens and citizens of Serbia. Through underground waters, totals can long-term contaminants and wells with drinking water, reach the organisms of citizens, who can then suffer from cancer. When the country has long been treated with glyphosad herbicides, at one point it begins to be less fertile and, of course, can be completely barren. All the green parties are against glyphosates throughout the European Union, and the last six months have been particularly relevant to this issue in the European Parliament. The use of glyphosate brings us to another very important issue, which is the quality of water in rural water, the quality of water in rural wells. That question brings us, of course, and the answer to why we often have a problem with endemic diseases in some villages, and we don't know the causes. Therefore, Green Serbia points out that the treatment of plants with totality is not a solution both because of the precaution and security and the consequences that are numerous and long-term should be excluded from use in Serbia. There is no room for total in Serbia's agriculture. Alternative ways in which harvest residues can be removed, collection, embalming, further use in livestock, in energy production and for other purposes should be presented to farmers. Some of my colleagues spoke about our desire for a healthy economy, organic production large. We need to stop this total herbicide as soon as possible. The World Health Organization is bringing this herbicide into contact with the possible cause of cancer, and unfortunately, the European Commission has extended its use temporarily until 31 December 2017. My question for the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection is – who controls the application of total hebricide in Serbia? How does she control herself? Do producers act responsibly, and do they adhere to legal regulations and withdrawals? Is Serbia planning to completely ban total and thus protect Serbia's agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3603	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Members of the People - MP Ivan Kostic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Vladimir Popovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Vesna Mandić and Mirjana Popovic, Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Marko Popadić, Head of the Office of Education, Science and Technological Development. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, for members of parliament groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Does Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education, science and technological development want the word? The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3604	I welcome the MPs and I want success in working on this session. I still have to say that this year we're going with this model of changes and the addition of the Higher Education Act because we realized that at one point there was a misunderstanding of the earlier regulations that had been made when it came to studying students by so-called. old programs. During the summer, in August, after the formation of the government, I received many letters from old students, who were not even organized, but came to me individually and personally and through emails. I kind of asked them to organize themselves through social networks, which they did, came to a personal meeting and then we saw that it was really more of a legal problem, not just a question of whether so many people still have a chance to extend their studies according to the old model. The reasons are life-threatening. The fact is, there are a lot of people. All these human reasons were part of the story. The second part of the story was this law that was passed at the time it was passed, that it was given a double number of years to complete studies according to the old model. Then I learned from those old students that many colleges didn't start applying that regulation the same year, which none of the legislators at the time did. Then we had a very short time to check it out, and with the consent of those groups of old students, their lawyer, some Vranya ladies, we asked for colleges, and that summer time, while they were just gathering. Then we found out that somewhere around 65% of the colleges were to extend because they would simply get us over 4,000 people for a reason and sue for some damage to them personally. When we saw that we had consent to about two-thirds of the colleges, we were left to address the High Education Council. So we did all of this at the fastest possible speed available at the time. In one basket, of course, we have made amendments and additions to the law when it comes to students studying in Bologna, who by budget should exercise the right if they win those 60 points. Every year it comes to the Assembly and I hope that this will be the last time to discuss and that we will ask that this matter be arranged with universities and all universities, to see what is the threshold, which is the quota, why it cannot be brought into harmony, where students are guilty, what are the demands of the university and the university, and we are opening discussions on this topic already. Since the year began, there was simply no time to do this short period of analysis and to go into the removal of reasons, that it did not have to be legally applied like this every year. In the third booze came the categories of people who started the doctorate and the master's degree according to old principles. We passed it on to both the government and the High Education Council. The High Education Council had no legal basis, as he gave us in the memo, for them to enter this category. So today we and the amendments and all the other things that the Assembly has the right to do, we couldn't, as a promoter, put in place, if we respect institutions like, of course, the High Education Council that forms this Assembly. So we're here today as someone who thinks that all these suggestions that we've sent through the government are discussed and that we show cooperation on co-operation on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3605	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has been made by the Committee's rapporteur. Ask for one more word, I don't see your application on the monitor. MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present information and inform you on behalf of the Committee on Education that we have thoroughly discussed this proposal and this is one of the issues, that is, one of the proposals on which we have reached full consensus in the Committee on Education, even in this section of the proposal and debate in principle. What prevails in the Committee, which is likely to be the topic of the second part of this session, because we have a very significant number of amendments, which is the question, therefore, of the magistrates and the doctors who are not covered by this proposal, so I would ask the MPs who have been declared to discuss this matter in principle, to bear in mind that they have expressed their consent through their representatives on the Committee, and to try to save time in order to make a more thorough commitment to the amendments and the work that I personally consider necessary to change. In this respect, I want to thank both the Ministry and the Government for hearing about students because it is definitely time that education institutions have more hearing for students, and that in some ways we come down among them and feel what their real problems are. This is an example that's possible. I hope that this proposal will be adopted, now in principle, and then in a certain version and according to the amendments that have arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3607	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3608	I thank the chairman. We in the LSV cannot agree with what this amendment of the law is actually difficult to do through amendments, and on the proposal of the Resorship Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the sense that it is aimed at extending the study and that the post-members have been present for a long time on the majority of students, are something that we can't agree on, but we have an understanding of it. We understand that if we move into the shoes of current students in relation to all circumstances, some less, and much more justified, which led to this status. However, what we can't agree on, we have no understanding and what we will always plead against is discrimination that is inadmissible from someone who needs to take care of equal conditions for all students and who in the way it is set out, the way it results through this proposal, discriminates against old, or pre-bolone magistrates and doctors by not allowing them to extend their studies. What the minister also called for in his opening statement, as well as in some public statements, is that he will not change the decision on the old sub-diplots, that there is no legal basis for this, and a few minutes ago he also called for the opinion of the Council, which also, as the minister said earlier, had no legal basis to treat the old Pre-Bolonian magistrates and PhDs differently. The Minister and his team should know that there is no legal basis behind this activity, that is, the measures they want to apply, and that is why we are here today, and that is why the law is also being changed to create a legal basis, that is to say, an amendment to the law so that all the proposed initiatives can be implemented in accordance with the law, i.e. by changing the law. So that argument that he had no legal basis and the minister as he said himself, there is no legal basis for extending the period of study to the old magistrates, is absolutely not standing because we would not be sitting here today and not considering all the proposed amendments. Also, what prompts me to do some superficial work with the minister or ministry in this matter is the fact that the minister said he did not change the decision on old graduates, which means he was tried to talk about changing that decision. If there had been a level of MPs, at the level of students, at the level of stakeholders, I think specifically of magistrates and doctors at the pre-bolon stage, as soon as he says - I'm not changing the decision, so that the initiative existed and I can't be satisfied with the argument that there is no legal basis, because I repeat, we would not be here to change all this, that the legal basis for anything exists, because we are now changing the law because we are here. What also does not stand on page 7 of the accompanying material that we have received with the proposal for these amendments, which refers to a declaration of compliance of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education with EU rules. The provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States shall be laid down in point 3. In Section D, a link to the national programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. I know that all of this SSP read has more than 700 pages, I know that this is one large-scale reading, but I expected that in this several-month waiting for the government to start working and coming with proposals before the MPs, if not the minister could deal with a more fundamental and Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows for the period from 2014 to 2018, given that what is also not true, or what is called for, the link with the SSP and the NPN for 2014 to 2018, because the only intervention measure that is planned here is for 2014, to change the law, which was several years ago, and everything else relates to lifelong learning, professional training programmes, and not that this kind of intervention measure has anything to do with the SAA. In that sense, of course, I would recommend to the ministry that it deal more seriously with what it is called for, probably, thinking that it is so good, because I do not see any good reason to call for international agreements, and that it does not stand and think again about the LSV initiative and the amendment that we are going to submit, that in an equal regime, therefore, without discrimination from pre-Bolonian magistrates and doctorates, it enables everyone to continue studying. If such an intervention is adopted in an amendment, I am sure that my colleagues will support this amendment to the law, but in a break of this condition when we make a distinction between students, which is unacceptable for someone who should be their host and someone who needs to provide equal conditions, which means the SAA and all other acts that we place in the legal assets of the EU, otherwise we will not be able to support this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3609	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3610	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, may I welcome you first. For the first time, you've been in parliament with one topic that we Parliamentarians have been meeting for many years, so they'd say there's nothing new for us here than how we understand why this is happening, to what we have to do. Since I am a member of the Committee on Education, we have discussed the proposal to amend the Law at the meeting and, as I understand it, we are all willing to accept the proposed amendments, we have all invested a number of amendments, and it really concerns the issue of equal status of all participants in the process of education, whether it concerns students, "preparencies", so to speak, or those currently in their Master's and Doctoral studies. How do I understand and how my MP group understands why it's important that we support this issue this time, but, as you said, this should really be the last time? Because, simply, we have one big damage that we may not see every day, but which eventually appears as damage, because with these constant amendments to the Higher Education Act, obviously we have information that we have to change something within the framework of the law, and the other is what tells us that we have not essentially and ultimately provided quality and quality monitoring for education. Because if we'd done everything we had to do and we had absolutely all kinds of necessary data, analysis and tasks to take over, I guess this problem would have happened, but I think he'd have been behind us somewhere long ago. As far as the bill is concerned, my opinion is that the students of the "overpatients" need to meet, but I'm sorry that we don't have one serious analysis, I don't think we didn't have one last year when we discussed this subject, what are all these reasons that have defined this situation? Of course, we can inform ourselves based on some experiences of some students, our acquaintances, based on our experience, after all, we can recognize some reasons, but I think that to solve this problem and avoid the future situation, we would really need one serious analysis of all the possible causes that lead to this situation. We didn't have it this time, and then in our discussion, we narrow it down to – one is personal moments, that someone at one point had to stop studying, couldn't continue them, could get a job, had started a family, had children, etc., and these are the reasons that are completely justified and that will always exist. But, the education system, now I'm talking about higher education, it has to recognize such situations, and it's not allowed for students, nor for myself, to think about the system, to put in a situation of a permanent extension of something, and without real support to what makes the system exist. The system exists because of those who are educated. Because in itself, don't do anything. So the system has to support it. I'm sort of reading and loading that the system didn't provide enough support. If we have a story about whether or not they're urban legends, but it seems to me that they're really real experiences, because, again, we've all passed them, that some professors have an extremely high criteria, and I welcome that criterion, and that criterion must exist, but if it's seen that a certain number of professors have a very small percentage of students pass the exam, or can pass, then that professor, you, the ministers, understand very well in relation to all the systems in which you've worked, then that professor with the best intentions of educators, scientists, whatever, intellectual honesty, should help his students to master the program. Because this professor's goal, I assume, is the success of students, knowledge and quality of the education process before. That's not happening. It really doesn't happen, and that's where many people stop education at one point. Is that useful for this company? It's not. Minister, you also know that knowledge is timely. So every knowledge, every participant in the education process, you give at one point, at a time that each type's abilities can accept, develop and give a new value. We're losing that continuity here. And that's, again, a big shame. A great shame for the system of education, a great pity for the student, a great pity for what will come when that person finishes his college, when he finally starts to work. With that degree, will he be ready enough, that in all the flows of what needs to be maximum that at the moment he was hired as an academic citizen, what does the employer, the system, expect him to be in anyone? Therefore, it is not only our damage that someone has unresolved life status and many plans because of it and that society, of course, has some material consequences, but our damages are of another type, and this education system needs to solve and I believe that you are there for it, and that is, of course, how it is written in this great document. The education strategy is also envisaged by 2020 – academic studies should monitor the development needs of the Republic of Serbia at all levels of its existence, its objectives, which we all know in society. What is in the Strategy, of course, and when we talk about this type of basic study is also foreseen – that is the wonderful assumption that 38.5% of citizens will have higher education by 2020. I doubt that we will reach that goal in four years and that we will succeed, because I am afraid that some years have passed without enough attention to this problem and the overall issue of education in essence. As for students who are in doctoral and master's studies, we also advocate that they extend the deadline. I wouldn't elaborate here what the reasons are, given that we don't have an analysis from the institution, I wouldn't read the information I have and I personally believe that they're very reliable, but they're simply not relevant to the discussion. The system needs to analyze why something's going on. What I would also say is that this education system of ours, I really, Minister, believe that this will be the last time, here, you've given us that kind of promise, that for the last time we'll be dealing with these issues, and that all our discussions later on will be about quality issues, for the simple and only reason, and that's actually the need of this society for educated people, for people who are willing to participate in the process of working at any level, whether it's with secondary education or with any other higher education. Because what we certainly see as citizens of this country, it is simple that the many issues that are in front of us all are daily, that the world is in some difficult turbulences and that every citizen, I, above all, return to my country, every citizen is equally important and equally important and should be given the opportunity to contribute to his knowledge in solving any problem or making progress in any segment of society. And that's what, of course, this education system failed to solve, but not just the education system, it's a delicate issue of abandoning the educated people of this country. I see this departure as a further unwillingness to wrestling with a system where they can't be successful, and being successful means having the opportunity to, apart from what you're going to invest as your capacity, intellectual and educational, to have the organisational opportunities to realize it all. Those people who leave are the ones who want to learn, Minister, and we're in favour of the concept of lifelong education. These people are gone, they know it's waiting for them. You must have read Michael Pupin’s autobiography “From Pasture to Scientists. ” I am sorry that the Americans had the honour of being part of their mandatory booklet, and that we in Serbia had never had that honor, and that we had never, first of all, seen the need, unfortunately, to have, when he went to America, said - I believed then that I was carrying with me the values that America would recognize. It took time to identify. This is the 21st century. The people who leave here with the education they already have are recognized as someone who can contribute somewhere. Now, that could be around the world somewhere. People are free to move, but Minister, here's the key thing, it has to be to the greatest extent of our academic citizens here. We have to create conditions for them. In that sense, I believe that by deciding to adopt this bill this time, we will discuss amendments. I stand absolutely for the principle of availability, non-discrimination, equality. There's no education system if it's not fair and efficient, no quality, simple. But I simply think that this should be the last time, that every time we do everything in every segment of education will give hope to those who are already thinking about leaving today, to postpone these days and to stay here, because this society needs the power of knowledge and competence. It's strength. It's the power of every country. No question in the world can be solved without you knowing anything, without doing research, without you being able to do research, no questions. I ask you to do what you can with your associates. My parliamentary group will support it. But really, next year, at this time, we're actually meeting with some other topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3611	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3612	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow Bicanin was just as concrete, direct and fundamentally come to this topic. This is a general subject that you can't talk about, but I think she's given you good guidelines for working in the future. When it comes to the JS parliamentary group, we will, of course, support the amendments and additions to this law. But I agree, I have heard that certain parties, and as I hear the Education Committee, will also submit some amendments that will contribute to these and those currently in the master and doctoral studies, when it comes to their deadline, of course, and we will certainly support that. Unlike counterpart Bicanin, I will only be more specific in one matter when it comes to certain criteria of certain professors from Belgrade University. You certainly know, if nothing else, at least according to the headlines, there was a recognizable teacher from the Faculty of Geographic who already held over 900 students with only one exam they didn't pass. I'm going to ask you to find some way to solve this problem too. Why do I say it systemically? It's not just one exam and it's not just one professor. It's 900 young people who certainly can't find a job in their profession because of that one exam. That's 900 young people who question whether to engage in marital waters. It's over 900 children in some future period, and we all very often call for a fight against the white plague. If the Ministry of Education can help in some part, it's when it comes to these students, and there's not a small number, they have a problem like this. Of course, students should not be taken care of only by young people with laws like this, at least we who come from JS, not just declaratively, we always refer to them as young laws. I want to inform you, you probably already know before you became a minister that in the organization of the city of Jagodina over 600 students had already visited Vienna for the sixth time, visited their colleagues and higher education institutions in European countries, had the opportunity to exchange experiences with them and, of course, every time students went there, it was a message to them to return, to adopt some new knowledge and some new experiences, but to bring them back to Serbia. The point is to make sure that in this mandate, and I believe that you will, the more environments outside of the big cities, means, some smaller towns and smaller municipalities get colleges. I come from Vranjska Banja. In 2011, we were fortunate to open the Faculty of Tourism and Hoteling. Although we are recognizable to everyone as one highly developed tourist site, only the moment we got students, and in 2011, so here we are five years ago, the city came to life. Now we live kind of 365 days a year. Why do I tell you this? Because some smaller environments can make no small incomes right from college. At this point, we have over 600 students who are located in Vranjska Banja, who some other 600 families are directly benefiting from them. It can be one mechanism where it can have a considerable impact on the economy, and on the other hand, we can keep a large number of young people from leaving small towns and municipalities. Some statistics I've had a chance to see say this, that out of a hundred people who leave and graduate from colleges in large communities, only 10 return to their hometowns or fewer municipalities from which they left. Here, with this idea, of course, with all the support that I have said that the parliamentary group will certainly vote for amendments and additions to this law, I will ask that at the end of what I mentioned be one bar inspiration for your mandate and help us to get at least another university in Vranjska Banja because with this one we saw that our city, i.e. The municipality drastically changed for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3613	The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3614	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, an important indicator of the development of a country and society is a commitment to support and ensure quality higher education. The first indicator of this commitment is certainly the percentage of the budgets that a country separates for both science and education. This, unfortunately, in Serbia, is a constant trend of decline. Well, here, for you, Mr. Minister, one topic on which it would be good for you to work. Education and social protection systems in our country are not fully tailored and this prevents children, especially from the poorest families, not more from vulnerabilitating families than they used to be, but from middle-class families, especially in the interior, where, as a colleague said recently, there is no college to give up further education and study, so it would be good for the social aspect, as well as the economic aspect, to also ask the local self-government about further development of higher education in our country Serbia. Also, through high school and university enrolment procedures, socio-economic status is still important, because existing credit and student scholarship systems are not the best, or they are not enough for young people who are from poorer families to support themselves. I'm saying this because most of our families, which is middle class, which has an average salary of 360 euros a month, and it's very hard to support kids in college or high school, especially in another city. Also, of course, these economic development projects should also be taken into account and see what is curent, what is required in our country. We must bear in mind that there were millions and 100,000 workers in Serbia in 1990. Today we have 250,000 workers. Not only has unemployment been increased, it has also reduced the need for four or five times for engineers, or for all those accompanying high and higher personnel who have followed this number of workers. I would once again underline this role of the economy, that is, economic development and the need for people. The case of a young doctor who was asked by the National Employment Agency if he would be willing to overqualified. You know, after six years of a hard and expensive study, both for a student and his parents, the question of requalification would be ridiculous if it weren't tragic. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will say that our DSS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions of the Higher Education Act with an important requirement, which is to equate the status of students, master's and doctoral studies both in old and new so-called. The Bologna system. So we support the extension of the deadline for the completion of the studies of those students who enrolled in studies under the old system. They had their reasons for making this long. Next, of course, we support the right of students in school 2013 and 2014 to retain the possibility of funding from the budget for up to one year at the end of the regular duration of the study, which means we are returning something that was previously called the insolvency period and which was somewhere in my time, and also later, was present. Of course, I support this right of students to enroll next year with 48, not 60 ESPB. I remind you that three years ago, the DSS also requested this same reduction. You, Mr. Minister, are not, under quotes, to blame for all these supplements to be carried out, but the thing where my remark goes is that it's a little late, since here it is now the third week of October and that the exercises and lectures have started, and then there's a mess about enrolling students at high school and colleges. So, I would add once again that the DSS has submitted an amendment requiring that the status of students, master's and doctoral studies and the old and new system be equalized, means, both before the bologna and since the bologna was accepted since 2005. The list of priorities among many people who have taken a job or women who have taken a job, and then they have even given birth to one or two, or God give three children, has changed. She can be doctored at 50 and 45, but she can't have her first child at 45 or 50 years old. The question is how much knowledge is truly appreciated in our country. Serbia is competitive, and according to a Global Competitiveness Index, which has worked for the 2016 and 2017 World Economic Forum, it is 90th among the 138 countries. In high education and training, she's in 69 places. That means somewhere in half, and by the innovation index, we're really tragic. We're in 120 places. Why are we here in 120 places and why are we so low, about competitiveness and about innovation and technology so sophisticated? We're standing here very badly because of the massive brain drain of the so-called brain. Brain drain, which fully disarms a country, as regards knowledge and later opportunities for work, contribution and development. I can think of a sentence from a great Sultanic cabaret that says, the brain drain is what, those who had brains and were smart, they went abroad for better wages, and we who don't have brains, we stayed here. You know, it's not enough for us children, grandchildren, students, to recite Shantic's song to our friends: "Stay here, the sun of other people's sky will not warm you up, as this warms you up. The Greeks are there snacks of bread, where there is none and where there is no brother." In an interview with SANU President Vladimir Kostic, speaking of the brain drain, said it would be a very big problem for Serbia, because in 15 years we could come up with a situation where we have a serious deficit of available resources, or people with higher education, so we will have to import them, but I don't know who will come to us. The most common economic situation is the cause of departure, but it is combined with poor government, and that is the factor that highly professionally interferes with leaving. As an incentive factor, we could name so-called. The oligarchy structure, the corrupt structures that are undereducated, which are employed on the party line, whose smart and educated people represent critics of them and the critics of the system, and of course it is not welcome and therefore, even kindly, in some areas looks at the departure of young people. I, as a professor of higher vocational health school, face the departure of young people from the country on a daily basis. Already in the final year, especially in specialist studies, those better children and students have already been attended by various agents from Italy, Germany, Norway and offered jobs abroad. When the final papers are defended, there are always mixed feelings, because with pleasure and joy that the student finished school and became an academic citizen, it is also mixed with tears, because many of them already have jobs in Italy, Canada, the United States, Germany and other countries of Europe and the EU, to go there to treat and cultivate other people. Also, a friend of mine at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering says that all his better kids, from his last year of studies, are already uncircumcised, and out of the 10 defenses in chemistry, in the last few years, even eight have found a job around the world and haven't stayed in our country. If such employment continues, through party books and forsaking people with fake and purchased diplomas, we will turn into a country where all young and educated and smart will leave, and only uneducated labour will be slaves to foreigners here. I would quote a text by Vladimir Grecic, who recently published in politics, which caused very great attention, which says that the number of people who emigrated from Serbia to OECD countries, is Canada, America and 18 countries of Europe, in the period from 2004 to 2013 averaged 226 thousand annually, in 2013, emigrated 45,000 people, and in 2015 we had a record with 58 000 emigrated from Serbia. The percentage of high school, according to Grecic, is around 15%, and according to the OECD 2013 report in the Member States, there were 61,000 highly educated people who were born in Serbia. Of course, here we should say something about the material position. The professor's material position is different, from higher school to college, so it happens that where there's a large number of students enrolled, and where you don't have the need for laboratory exercises, you don't have expenses, they have a lot more salaries than these others. Now, of course, after this fiscal consolidation, which has destroyed the professor's pockets, that situation is even worse. It should also be noted that colleges do not get enough funding for heating and municipal costs, and here, we have an idea for you, Minister Sarčević, that you solve the financing of municipal costs of the university with an urgent requirement for a budget reserve, so that then those funds, which the colleges receive, can be used to improve teaching rather than to pay for heating. As far as the relationship with Bologna is concerned, we all know what Bologna, the declaration signed in 1999, was signed by Serbia in 2003, and we have a new Education Act in 2005. That was good because the accepted systems are easily recognizable, based on two cycles. One is undergraduate, one is graduate. The credit system, the ENPB, or the European credit transfer system, is being introduced as a system for the improvement of student exchanges. As for the results of Bologna in Serbia, it is true that study efficiency has been reduced, as the number of years of study have been reduced, but the average in children who study is higher than before, but has more diplomas, but has much less knowledge and much less training. I will again quote Academyman Kostic, president of SANU, who says that in 2000 at 2001, there were 86 colleges in Serbia, and a decade later there were 236 colleges, of which 209 state and 27 private with 1228 studies programmes, and besides that in 2010, only the list of names of managers contains 25 names, which the labour market does not recognise. Someone who's a high-school professor of health studies has to say that there's still no recognition, special nurses and technicians at the age of four, a specialist year, which is necessary, with the labour market, so it seems to me that it's your job somewhere to emulate it, Mr. Minister. The dramatic jump is in the defensive doctoral dissertation. In 2006, we had 206 doctoral dissertations, while in 2012, we had 770 doctoral dissertations, so the number jumped 374 percent. Of course, it is also bad that it has been found for some, and for some of the high officials of this country there are doubts that they have bought diplomas, that they have falsified their doctorates, there have been no sanctions for young people who are learning valuablely, who want to learn and who want to stay in this country, in some ways a very bad message is being sent. So, to conclude, we, as the DSS parliamentary group, will support amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, by asking them to supplement, as I said, the right to extend the deadlines for magistrates and PhDs in the old and new system. We are well aware that these are cosmetic changes. We propose that according to higher education, and according to the Bolonjski system, certain things are done and taken appropriate steps are taken, which is to objectively monitor and analyse the quality of study programmes in higher schools and universities. This includes, of course, the quality of the professors and the criteria that were mentioned here, because you have some professors who hold 900 students and don't let them pass, and that's their final exam, and there are some teachers who don't even show up at classes, who don't teach and where people go very easily and no knowledge is required. Also, we are looking for an analysis of the efficiency of study not only through the reduction of the number of years of studies, but also through the evaluation of training and knowledge. Very often young people bring in a diploma that they don't know what to do, because they don't know what they know or are trained to do. The student burden and obtaining the EGF should also be evaluated, including the economy and local self-government in the story in general and the planning of long-term higher education in Serbia. In the meantime, we need to relax the existing law. The Higher Education Act is not a methodical unit, so when we adopt it, we are done, it is a dynamic category education, and it needs to be constantly worked on as an instrument to keep practicing and constantly improving. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3615	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3616	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, here after more than two and a half months as we have chosen the Government we have a minister with a bill of urgency, of course all three points in which they only re-extend to the inexplicable application of the transitional and final provisions of the law that was passed in 2005. In his very short presentation, however, in line with the length of the law, the minister himself explained for four minutes that he was not in fact the initiator of this change, that, over the summer, students concerned with the concrete solutions that we are talking about today and that the ministry was just a flow water heater from where the initiatives went towards the High Council of Education and from there came agreement on such changes and additions. Now, I must say, yes, the minister was elected two and a half months ago, perhaps it was unrealistic to expect from him and his team, if at all it was made up to the end, to come now with some serious changes or possibly a new law in line with the High Education Strategy by 2020, which was adopted in 2012 and to see if it was being implemented, whether it was real, whether there was something to change and therefore the laws. We got this proposal, and I'd like to make some comments and ask some questions. I wonder how many people have initiated this change when the minister accepted to forward it to the High Council of Education, is that five, ten, fifty? How many people, since we are the last changes that have been extended this deadline that we're saying again today should be extended by two more years, they were adopted two years ago. Two years ago, we extended the deadline by two years and ended with school 2015/2016. Whatever. These students who began their studies in the old system were to complete their studies. I remind you when the law was passed in 2005. The deadline was two years after the end of the period of regular study, so it was changed four times. This is the fifth such change. I ask the question not only of the minister, but of all of us, above all of the ruling majority – what did she do for these five years to end this thing? In two years, will we have a new minister again, because you are the fourth minister elected by the majority, which also speaks about the relationship between SNS and coalition partners towards education in Serbia. Two years ago, your colleague Verbic was here, and he also said that we had to, people didn't get here, sure we could find enough examples of people who, for extreme objective reasons, couldn't complete studies and regular and doctoral and doctoral and masteral which, though, this law didn't treat, who could and had to finish so they didn't, so let's go out and meet them, but was there an analysis of which number of people were involved? I'm interested in these two years, how many people we gave a chance to finish those studies? This law is, in the political jargon, the purchase of peace among students. You're going to meet students' demands that there wouldn't be any problems, some protests, but I think she's going back to her study quality. I hope, Minister, that you will have the courage, because this government has been chosen as a new, brave government that will go into reform, though, and the previous one, and your predecessor was also part of such a brave government and my impression is that in two years his greatest success was that with the help of the BIA, the police, I don't know who, save questions for a small graduation. It was the greatest success of the previous minister. What is the problem of higher education in Serbia, some colleagues have spoken in previous speeches about it, and I will relate, of course, that this law does not treat all the painful places we have today in higher education. First of all, I'm referring to the non-compliance with labour market requirements. Today we have people who train, study for professions that do not exist in the labour market at all. The question arises – what will happen to these people when they graduate from colleges, they come and say – well, here we are studying yesterday, we want to do something, and you see in the labour market, there is simply no need for such jobs. Is something finally going to be done on this matter, to adapt programs to highly educated institutions, to match labour markets? Here we hear today from one side that in this IT industry, which is one of the potential industries where Serbia can progress quickly and be competitive, there are 15 to 30,000 educated people missing. Is something going to change? Slow study still exists. Again, instead of rewarding those who are studying within the deadline, who are worth all the exams, we are again reducing this 60 credit limit to 48. It's good, it's popular among students, but how much does it contribute to the quality of higher education in Serbia? Of course, corruption. Buying exams and diplomas, doctorate. One devaluation of scientific work at all, the hyper-production of doctors, and that was the topic here and the political debates, because there were doubts about university and doctoral diplomas of top state officials. We still have an unintegrated university. We have a lack of support for projects – exchange and development. This may not be a particular topic of this law, but today he is a colleague of Professors. Micunovic asked a question – what about competitions for scientific research? No competitions have been announced for two years. The state does not finance scientific workers in Serbia. Then we pomise whether the exact figures are about how many people have been educated, highly educated or have left Serbia at all in recent years. Acadamik Kostic spoke of 27,000 highly educated people who have left Serbia in the past six years. Can we as a country, as a country, ever have a future with this kind of flow of people? What will this government do about it? On this list of competitiveness that counterpart Raskovic Ivić spoke of, there is a list of how much the country is capable of retaining talented educated people. We're in the last place. Of all the countries in the world, we're second from behind, as they say. These are the things I think we need to talk about here very quickly. The minister has made one big commitment, a hot potato, according to it, given the general state of education. I think you're going to have a big problem fixing the situation if you don't have government support, professional public, so let me tell the whole society, because I think our education problems are starting with school, parent-to-parent relationships, school-to-teacher-to-teacher-to-teachers-to-teachers-to-teachers, their motivations to work. The fact that education today has become a lucrative business, which is not controversial, but we have a constitutional obligation to make basic education free and compulsory, mandatory and free. Our opinion is that in this case the state must offer free textbooks to all primary school students, not to make huge millions of dollars. Making one textbook costs fifty dinars, and it is sold for 700 or 800 dinars. I'm talking physically about how much it costs. Of course we should pay the authors, and all that is understood. It's not a dispute. But is this a place to introduce a market or are we going to allow all students free textbooks so that they can make what is declared in the Constitution about compulsory and free basic education real and real? I'm saying this isn't about this law. We'll probably eventually support this law. We have proposed a change to the deadline for doctoral studies since we believe that those people who have shown that they have knowledge and have completed regular studies and wanted to continue to work on scientific work should be allowed and left that possibility and hopefully, I see that such amendments and similar contents come from many MPs clubs, that we will come to an end to some solution that will allow these people, for which it may be least controversial to have knowledge, because they have already acquired a university degree, but they want to continue to perfect themselves and contribute to scientific work, that we will meet them too. I truly do, and I want this to be the last time we have to talk about extending this deadline. I say, in 2005, the law was passed with the idea that, within three years, the study of the old programs was completed, all those who studied at that time. We are now extending that deadline to school 2018/2019. A year and I also hope, Minister, that we will not get into the situation that we have today, which is that it has practically stopped the right to study by law enforcement, as the law says until the end of school 2015/2016. years that can be completed, that can be completed studies. The new school year 2016/2017 started. This one ended on October 1st and we are discussing today, and probably only at the end of this week will we adopt these changes, not to do that to those who are studying, but first of all, to turn to thinking about the indiscriminateness of this country, which, in order to survive, must primarily take care of its most educated and most talented citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3617	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3618	I thank the chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, what today is the topic is an ad walk solution when it comes to students who have enrolled in the old system of studies, and we simply want to extend their deadline to two years and immediately say that the DS parliamentary group agrees with the ministry's proposal and that we will support these changes. What's very interesting is that today I am not going to point so hard at you, since you are the minister who has just taken office, but certainly the policy of your government that exists since 2012, the government's policy, even though you said during yesterday, that we have a education strategy that is 16 years old. The government's 2012 policy was such that it supported one strategy and in 2012, a special strategy on education reform in Serbia. I don't think we've done anything to change things for the better since 2012 until today. There are no systemic solutions, no answer to the question of what we really want with high education in Serbia. What is the objective of higher education? What does a young man today when he graduates from college on the one hand know if he can get a job somewhere and what his global perspective of survival is in this country? That's the essential question that you as the new minister have to give an answer to. I think your task is probably the hardest in this government of the Republic of Serbia. Since you're a new minister, you're going to have not only a huge job on your back, but you're going to have to make up for everything that this government has actually failed to do in these four years. Why do we have students who finish colleges, and that, in doing so, you're aware, they don't even know what they're studying very often? Considering that we have teachers who teach in colleges who don't know what's happened in modern pedagogy for the last 30 years. Why are universities, for example, so misquoted? Why are our plans bad and outdated, and the professors, on the other hand, are not ready for any change or change? Why can't we, in the end, solve the quality control issue, and not only when it comes to entering the university, but also when it comes to getting out of the university? What is it that a college student has, as a graduate, in his own hands, is he qualified in the labour market and does the labour market recognise him as a necessity, so that tomorrow one of them is kept in the country and that we can use that knowledge for future generations? What about the nostrification of our diplomas, let's put it this way, perhaps even the most educated people who have completed prestigious universities abroad? Why do we have a flood of fake PhDs, plagiarisms, bought diplomas? These are all questions that concern you first, although you are not responsible personally. You agreed to be part of a policy that led to quite a mess in higher education. We have students today who, with their pressure, have forced you to give one amendment to the law, but we cannot without solving the problem systematically in some future period. The students who wrote under the old program are the ones who initiated this, and I repeat, we will support it, but of course with your promise that next time it will enter the Assembly not to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, but a new law on higher education. When it comes to graduates, although you were originally as a ministry, you explained earlier, the Higher Education Council disagreed, I do not see any further clear reasons why, but we want today to agree with all parliamentary groups, with you as a minister and of course the Committee, to agree to adopt an amendment that would extend the deadline for completion to graduates. For what? If we consider, as you yourself know, that the deadline was 31 December 2013 for the application of the topic, and that by mid-2014 the subject and similarity were confirmed, they did not stay for two years to finish their doctoral dissertation quality. It's just not fair, and given that some of us may have been left with a month, two or three days to finish their work, we would, if we hadn't extended them, really lead to catastrophic damage that we couldn't even measure the money. We note, for example, that for 30 or 60 days, many have been on collective vacations. Someone's waiting for public insight, someone's waiting for the Senate, someone's got everything, and if we don't extend this deadline, it'll turn out that everything they've done fairly over the last two years we as an institution don't appreciate. I think we need to extend that, and I think we need to agree that it's in the best interest of our country. Pricers, if we mention them, I assume that as a minister you are even more than familiar with the defense of dissertation costs over 100,000 dinars, that a year in doctoral studies costs up to 150,000 dinars. If we take into account other costs, if we take into account the frequent purchase of books that are above the average when it comes to the price of the region, we also get to half a million dinar figures in some cases to get a doctorate. So how can that only doctor in Serbia, obviously, who deals in business and is obviously a stronger businessman? So with that money, without a scholarship, no one can get a chance to take advantage of their talent and to take advantage of this country where that person lives. When it comes to doctors of science and magistrates, who so far have really earned everything fairly, have they, like people with all the knowledge they have acquired during all these years really finally and needed our society, if we have such a relationship with them? What is very important, here we come to a key question – what kind of society do we ultimately want? What happens if the best leave Serbia and the constant knowledge departs from Serbia? If knowledge doesn't stay in our country, do you have any idea how much it's a loss and what it's a loss in money? How many billion euros did it come out of Serbia, if we know that the only capital this country has, and it is the most valuable, is human capital and with the knowledge these people have, and it is used by some other countries instead of Serbia? Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing to extend the deadline for the completion of their dissertation to graduates as well. Please, as Minister, support that, too. The third category is students who have enrolled in Bologna. A bologna who, you know, forcedly penetrated into our higher school system doesn't even exist in Bologna unless I'm wrong. Many of these students failed to complete their studies because they had to work first. Not only did they have to ask their parents to finance them, but just a few days ago there was a losing article in the media that talked about unfavourable cash loans their parents had to take and that their parents were literally pushing into debt slavery. What kind of system is that, and what kind of self-financing institution is that, if in the end, that someone ends up in debt slavery? So the parents of those students give everything. If we don't extend them too, and if we don't put them in the same category as the previous two groups, I think we will not only financially devast a large number of families in Serbia, who have invested a lot to complete their studies, and besides, they have worked and worked. In addition, many of them, I suppose, have written to you and many parliamentary groups, I am quite certain, and to all the MPs, insisting that what they have done and acquired during their education be valued and respected. A few of them, here, I'll just read a few. One of the students at the University of Novi Sad says that this number of additional exams and re-enquiries will mean a new scholarship and probably a re-hearing of new exams, which are usually a copy of those already passed either half of the same or another name of the same books, and completely, of course, the same professors. Thus, most of us, they say, who are unable to pay 700 or 1,000 euros will leave the studies themselves before the end of the study. It's the cost of our country. It's not their fault they didn't find their way into the chaos of our higher education, believe me, not them, not their families who pay dearly for their future. Many others, of course, wrote and appealed to you as Minister and to us as MPs to enable them to finish their studies, so that the next day they would not go abroad and not ask to be educated elsewhere. Otherwise, Mr. Sarcevic, if we don't, we will contribute to the continuing departure of knowledge from Serbia. It will ultimately be a devastating effect in trying to keep our country academically relevant, not only when it comes to the region but when it comes to the whole world. The bottom line is, we can't afford to have money for these young people. We can't have 74 billion dinars that the government has, untransparently, with its conclusion on various private machinations, combinations, private televisions, private companies and businesses, and someone from the state register gives great help and subsidies. We can't use 17 billion dinars to hire a party army the moment we agreed to save and no more public sector employment. I'll remind you it's about 30,000 contracts. We cannot have for projects such as "Biograda na Voda" 220m euros in cash that directly invests in our budget in this joint venture for the project, which will serve only one few people to get rich, which already has huge amounts of money, to build apartments of 3500 euros per square. On the other hand, that we don't have for these young people who, in the end, seem to me, stick in Serbia and stay in it. I think we have to help them with that money. That money is enough, not only to carry out financial consolidations that are, for example, the return of pensions, not just the reform of higher education, that money is enough and that every toilet in elementary school, high school, in college, renovate on state and simply build an institution from the school of primary, secondary and university. A student has to experience school as an institution. And in order for him to experience it in that school, he must have a toilet that's better than the toilet he has at home. We have to invest in infrastructure. We have to invest in their knowledge and we really have to give them such conditions that they can take advantage of and capitalize tomorrow, but in our country. We need to make it possible for them to work. We need to bring the labour market closer to higher education. We cannot allow conflicts in individual departments, individual colleges to be produced less annually, or less programmers come out than a developing industry really needs, which is the IT sector. We need to be ready to make a plan, to skip the development that is going on today in a fixed form of certain African countries. We don't have time for that. We have to skip 50 years with high-tech IT sector, sophisticated industries. Somewhere around here, Serbia has to find its alternative direction and path, not to spend money on nonsense. Money, there's anger, obviously there's only one of us who doesn't have good priorities, and you as a minister have to fight with your authority, by supporting these young people and us as MPs to make that money a smart waste. Because if we invest in science and higher education I hope next time the ministry will call it that, we simply have reformed education, reformed education, reformed higher education. A science that really gives concrete results where we have quality criteria on our way out of university. I think it's important that this society remains a society of citizens, not a society of slaves, and that we really manage to save this young world because the brain drains, believe me, there's no price. If you are able to calculate it, you will see that you have spent billions of euros and failed to use them by being the best, most talented, who may not have had the opportunity to finish studying in Serbia went somewhere else and capitalized their talent there. This is the problem of our education system and higher education and I sincerely hope that you will have a hearing for all categories of people that we mentioned today and that you will really come out to meet those who need your help through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3619	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3620	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support the bill, because we are fully aware of the reasons for the importance and urgency of adopting these regulations. I wouldn't particularly talk about it any further, because I think you've given clear and sincere reasons and motives for proposing these legal changes through explanation and introduction. What I'm trying to say is that I'm very sorry that as a matter of importance for national interest it's not classy and debate on education. For what reason, I would even honestly suggest that behind a session like this when it comes to education, TV bans are transmitted to avoid politics that obviously cannot be avoided even on these most important topics that are supposed to be extremely important to all of us and we all want to contribute to making it as good as possible when it comes to education. The educational part is one segment, and what I am particularly concerned about and what I expect from this ministry in the future is for the education system to be restored and the educational role. I think it's a core that's very important when it comes to education, we used to know that school is a educational institution, today we've only turned it into a labour market, fiction, possible jobs, unfulfilled desires, or fulfilled desires, the shortest way or a shortcut. It is necessary to distinguish clearly what the labour market needs, and it is the hard work of your ministry, and what it is to maintain through state colleges, through the programmes they have to provide for some future period, predicting in advance what it is and to what extent it is necessary for this country. Not only is it necessary, but it must be possible for anyone who wants to study, study under the same conditions and gain knowledge of a certain standard. The question of standardisation is obviously something that was badly done with the 2005 law without the intention of respecting anyone. It is obvious that there have been huge resistance, quiet or public, introduction of Bologna at certain higher education institutions, and some universities have applied Bologna very quickly and efficiently. It is your job to assess what this has been a key problem for the past 11 years. Law or law enforcement? What must not be allowed by the new Law on Higher Education and by all new laws when it comes to education is to remain anything undefined, unexplained and then, conditionally speaking, forced by such actions of certain things correct. I know it's an almost impossible mission, but it needs to be given serious attention in order to avoid similar methods of correction of detected mistakes in the future. It is very important that everyone who enters the first grade of elementary school today, enrolls in high school, wants to enroll or enroll in college, state or private, however, has absolute certainty under which conditions they can study and that these conditions are very clear and accurate for all the time guaranteed to him during that period where they will be unchanged. This is very important, because then we would not have come to the situation to assess what is greater damage to the country whether the fact that some students who have studied at state colleges for various reasons failed to end within the deadlines set earlier, whether it is greater damage or more damage to the education system infinitely extending deadlines. It is very difficult to find that right measure, because each case is very specific to itself and there perhaps you will not be fair to everyone in the proposal, or we will not be fair to everyone in this proposal of some new future laws, but the laws must be very clear and fair to the sea as far as possible. At this point I don't think we have a choice, because simply, these things were set up in 2005 as they were set up, they were going through their own streams, but to adopt these legal changes. What about the amendments and how we're going to stand up to them, we'll hear about them after the debate. Raising is something I'm undermining that we need it. At a time when parents have less and less time for their children, because we've moved hours from nine to five, we're not at home, we're not able to track them, the school has to, not to return the former, previous level of educational role, but to overcome it in a positive way. It is also necessary to consider practical things, such as student uniforms, the introduction of strict discipline and order in schools. It may seem banal to someone, but even with the obligation to start every shift at school by putting children in line, by intonating anthem, by entering a certain order and order in school classrooms. About this, someone else should give a final assessment and assess how much this has a positive impact on young people on the simple implantation of respect for work, for discipline, and therefore on the proper adoption of the knowledge offered to them. For this very reason, even though it takes television, I ask my colleagues today to avoid sending very ugly messages to young people. You know, if that's the case, let's be very clear in their comments. We just heard a comment that our high school is uncompetitive, and then in the next sentence that they're being kidnapped for our high school students, for our college-educated young people, and it's nothing new that those who are more powerful and richer than us have done that in ancient times. It is a complex situation in the country of Serbia, and you cannot solve it when it comes to the creation of a young man's desire to stay, except through the educational part, which is also one of the essential elements that will affect the young man's decision tomorrow whether he will stay in his country or not, except for that economic part. Someone else needs to take care of that. But the government as a team should run one compact policy, which will be systematic and create such conditions. We expect serious and root changes in the education system in the future. I'm familiar with your experience in practice, where you've done everything, and I'm undermining it with full law, and I expect for a reason that in Serbia, finally, when it comes to education, something seriously moves on to the better. Dear colleagues, please don't send ugly messages today to young people who decide whether they're going to enroll in colleges or not to make unsettled statements about allegedly false diplomats, about allegedly fake Ph.D.s. I'm just wondering if you're aware of how much that might affect raising young people? Minister, you can influence youth training for the future by introducing clear standards to school. You can't raise us. I can only ask my colleagues to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3621	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal of very constrained amendments and an addition to the already existing Law on Higher Education. Of course, we also use this opportunity to say something broader about the law itself and the way it is realized, because if we were to bring everything down to what the proposed law on amendments and additions contains, then there would be no debate. It's not bad that we're doing it. I am surprised that the minister did not go to the National Assembly with a proposal for a solution for students who had signed up under earlier laws and had not yet completed their education. Their deadline was until September this year. I think there should be one more radical solution to introduce that the passed exam will be passed for all time and that 40, 50 years, one exam that has been passed and that it is not questionable and that no one can cancel if someone has completed two-thirds, three-quarters of the studies, so he has not been able to graduate. What's finished, it's over, what's signed, it's signed. What we lack is the lack of the will of this progressive government that really things are fundamentally changing in the sphere of higher education. You are now as the new minister in the situation to prove that you are not. I'd be happy to. But why do I claim that this authority has not shown? A year ago, the National Council for Higher Education was selected. The president has been elected. Do you know who's chosen, Minister? Dejan Popovic. There is no more immoral professor at Belgrade University. He first began to represent this concept of Bologna, which actually ruined us. But aside from that, there's no difference in concept. About Dejan Popovic, academic Costa Chavoski wrote a book titled "Cameléon". He could've been a quarry, 'cause that's what it looks like. Dejan Popovic was Assistant Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic's assistant, imagine, a regular university professor. He agreed to be an assistant minister. Dejan Popovic developed that famous concept of extra profit tax that is charged retroactively. There's no country in the world where taxes are retroactively charged. This is what Bozidar Djelic and his assistant Dejan Popovic introduced to us. Now Dejan Popovic is to be a person of the highest authority in the area of higher education. Then he was given more authority than the university's rectors. It's unbearable. We remember this Dejan Popovic while he was a member of the Central Committee of the Union of the Communists of Serbia presidency. I personally studied his speeches, the apologetic tirada Slobodan Milosevic published at those sessions in his book "Dosmanley Seeds" at the law school, and then he turned into the strongest critic Milosevic and went to the opposite traitor's side, Dosmanlijski, and was the assistant of one of the most corrupt Dosmanli ministers we had, who are miraculously not yet in prison. That has to change. Otherwise, the concept of the National Council is not good in my opinion. There's too much authority. As much as his powers are too great, the Ministry is as deprived of its normal powers as it should have. The government cannot give some para-state council of powers that are primarily the powers of the minister. Third, we have a lot of reasons to talk about profiling our studies. We have a large number of state universities, an even bigger number, apparently, of private universities, but we don't have a clear profiled study. For example, law studies differ from college to college, from city to city. We don't have a general profile of a lawyer who needs to be educated in all law schools. So for the economist, so for the politician, so for the philosopher, the historian and everyone else. The university should give general and basic education, and everything else should be a matter of specialist courses, postgraduate studies, etc. With us each college is owned to determine the subject matter in the curriculum and then invent the subject matter according to the structure of the professor at the university and these newly invented subjects usually never become serious subjects, exams from these subjects are the easiest to take, they are the processes introduced, and the lawyer completes a legal study once, and that he had no subject of philosophy of law, that he had no subject of legal sociology, that he had no subject of social psychology, etc. So the ministry would have to make a profile of all studies at higher education institutions, and then the higher education institutions would adapt to that. Here it is required, in this law, that all professors have written a textbook, and so many professors at the university that should be banned from writing a textbook. The textbook can only write the best and restore periodic competitions for the best textbooks from all subjects, and then celebrate the one who met the criteria and whose textbook was then accepted for all the colleges in a particular area. So there has to be free competition, not the task of having three, four textbooks in one university, and then a student chooses which textbook. You have a quality textbook written by an academic and you have a locked textbook. I know at Law School, for example in the history of political legal theories, the teacher didn't have time to write anything about all the right theorists, so he took some of the pieces from other people's textbooks, even though it was taken from there and there. Then why would he need a textbook? He could have written that whole textbook, which he took over in part, as a master textbook for the subject. It is better that Radomer Lukic's textbook continues to apply than that someone is struggling to conclude something that does not look like a textbook. We need to create conditions as soon as possible to level the importance of private and state universities. There's still some private universities out there that don't trust each other. One of the reasons for this is the lack of profiling studies, because whoever forms various universities, gives them independent names, and determines on its own which classes will be taught. There should be intervention, a list of studies needed by Serbia, what the curricula of these studies contains, and all colleges should respect it strictly. It's a disaster for colleges to open up optional groups, directions and similar inventions, and that's a way to introduce new objects, which are essentially unnecessary and where serious classes are not performed at all, but we have a number of huge cases. As far as students are concerned, every year we have a huge problem with enrolment, registration deadlines, admission exams, etc. Admission exams should be canceled completely. Why the entrance exam, if someone's finished high school or some other high school? Then high school sucks, then high school sucks, so let's get out of high school and get straight to the entrance exams. That's what logic requires. I know all high schools aren't the same quality. I know there's corruption there too, that sometimes these schools end up without adequate knowledge, but that's why there are solutions. In all colleges, in the first year, to allow the enrollment of everyone who wants to study at that university, and in medical school, and then to give them eight general-theory classes in the first year, and who sets it within the deadline goes on and who doesn't get along. Then everyone has a chance, and one who had to finish high school which is said to be heavy, has strict criteria, has strict professors, etc., and for one who paid for some of the youth. We know what a high school age is, what problems young people face, and when they come to their senses, they can't make up for what they lost. Let's give them that, sit down, warm up the chair and make up for it. When purely theoretical subjects are at the first years of all studies, then there are no additional costs, then only teachers have huge problems with exams, but they can increase the number of professors, and at least it's easier for them to take classes from theoretical classes, so the easier it is for them to continue, to make it harder for them to take exams. That would change a lot of things. There are colleges that have introduced one-month classes. All their items are one-semester. It's the easiest thing in social science colleges, and it needs to be implemented consistently. In some universities, it is not possible, as in medical, in some schools of technical sciences, etc., it is not important, but in all universities it is possible that the first year is eliminated. What's done on the entrance exams, actually, is done on the first year of the study. Much better. Eight objects, one that lays, it's an honor. Eight general theoretical objects, and there's already a selection of at least 30% and perhaps more. You'd be more into medicine. We have a situation to increase the cost of schooling, that students are unable to pay for education if they are self-financed, that sometimes they are not able for a variety of reasons to get the right to budget funding. We would solve all these problems with the concept of the first year and then simply commit that college ends year after year. It can be transmitted, for example. two exams, but in the end, if the study is prescribed to last four years, another year of the adplocacy period or half a year can be added and sufficient. It's a country to provide for free. One who is unable to take advantage of the chance the state gives him to pay for everything. That's fair. Why should I do this? To restore natural selection within our youth. Selection is needed, not every god created equally capable of all affairs. He created someone for intellectual work, someone for trade, someone for art, etc. Everyone must find himself in society, but they must not meet the wishes and desires of those who would force themselves to achieve something that God has not given them. There are those who can learn for hundreds of years without mastering certain matter. When we introduce natural selection, when we introduce competition, and when that selection is in the first year, when the competition is realized in the first year, it's easier after that. Next, we have a grade problem. I've always been against a written evaluation if it wasn't those flash tests that end for 15-20 minutes at most for half an hour, as an auxiliary part of the interrogation. The study must be oral, of course in the schools of technical and natural sciences, while being enriched by some other kind of study, not speaking by heart, handling certain devices, participating in experiments, etc. We can't get into a situation I remember it was a long time ago, the idea of some of my colleagues being introduced to the Faculty of Political Sciences dactylography in the direction of the Journalist. Like, a journalist can't if he doesn't know dactylography. It's true he can't, but it's something he has to master himself, take a course and train hard. Not in college to learn something that's not college matter. In college to be just subjects that are strictly scientific and to add foreign languages etc. There are problems with foreign languages again. At the time of communism, we have been banished by a systematic Russian language. It was continued under Dosmanlian rule. The Russian language must return through the wide open door, then it must go to propagating the teachings of the Chinese language, Arabic language, Spanish, with the German and French who are also present. So, you can't impose on any high school student who's going to learn language, but that two of them have to master the course of study, by choice. He who learns Arabic or Chinese will be more difficult, will be weaker, and he who learns English or Russian will have to meet some more criteria because these languages could be studied in elementary and high school etc. We still have colleges without mandatory foreign language, or we have colleges where it's being studied.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3623	Excuse me, Mr. Seselj, time, you must bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3624	He's in custody.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3625	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to present an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3626	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers with your distinguished associates, honourable MPs, I am extremely pleased to have heard here some new creative ideas in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that have come from the ranks of the MPs of the government, that the suspension of these television broadcasts of assembly sessions is also being considered, because it is obvious that this last voice of the opposition that can be heard in Serbia. Of course, we hope, nor will we allow something like that to happen. What certainly concerns the vast number of Serbian citizens is the situation in which Serbian education is now, not just today, but years and decades ago. In particular, the dramatic material status of educational workers in Serbia is truly humiliating, the most educated layer of our population has salaries that are below the republican average. This only speaks of how education is appreciated in this country, that is, how much education is not appreciated and the educational work of those who spend more time with our children than we do as parents. It's a big problem and the authority of our teachers, teachers and teachers who are under this flood, so-called. children's rights or I don't know, parents' rights came into the situation so they don't ask questions anymore and that they're practically afraid of parents and children in the teaching process. Of all the things that are really humiliating and offensive for both children and teaching staff, the biggest problem is the attitude towards education that has been such that education is the subject of live experimentation and experimentation in which there is no end. Since the famous school of Gaša Knezevic's game, attempts to reform our education, which is most often hit by Western reformist ideas and which are neither really in the spirit of our educational traditions, nor make sense for our national education and education. We have come a long way from Gaša Knezevic to abolishing the name of the “Holy Sava” school for seven million Arab dollars, we are going a long way from all the pedagogical and psychological reforms that our education has suffered from DOS time to your idea, which I definitely do not understand, that parents should judge teachers. I really don't see how parents will know what it is and how it works at some class and where they get the right to judge people who have passed some teaching methods and passed some exams and mastered and doctored somewhere to be educational workers. Is that based on some information students will give them, so parents need to grade their teachers, teachers and teachers? That doesn't make sense, education reform in Serbia has broken down, and what we're talking about today is an extremely good example. For ten years, Bologna has been in Serbia, we can conclude that the Bologna process of reforming higher education in Serbia has experienced its end and failure and that it is urgent to change the existing Law on Higher Education and thoroughly review the value and objectives and results of the Bologna process in higher education. We here need to pay attention to these exact effects. We should pay attention to the results of this Bologna reform, which definitely left negative consequences for Serbian education. The reasons are different, and the general criticism of Bologna can take place from the introduction of evaluations of texts beyond any measure, too much importance of seminarical works and colloquium, various excessive and unnecessary electoral items, the abolition of graduate work or master's studies, the introduction of masters of vocational studies and general degradation, especially doctoral calls and this awakening of some doctoral professions, plagiarists and all others, which is not so strange when the president of the state bought you a degree or when the ministers plagiarized your doctoral works, then it should not be surprising that the whole nation is in the transfer of buying diplomas and invented, bought and plagiarized doctorates. This complete Bologna process definitely lowers the level of knowledge in Serbia, leads to a serious degradation and calling and knowledge, and today we are in this situation that we no longer know where our education is going. The best evidence is that in these 15 years of major Western reforms of our education we have changed probably 15 ministers of education. I don't know, Mr. Minister, you should know this information, which one of you is the minister in the last 15 years? Do the Ministers of Education change every six months for a year? What kind of reform is possible with such ministerial shifts? Is every minister starting from the beginning? Who's up to who? Is there any continuity and purpose? Here you are, and I don't know if the second, third, fifth minister in these five years of the SNS government, which is good proof that the SNS has no idea what to do with Serbian education. Because if they had any idea from that famous white book they'd forgotten if they'd ever written, they'd have put in one serious minister and that serious minister would have implemented education reform in the last five years. Like this, you have to start over now. Or maybe you won't start over? Perhaps you respect your predecessor Srdjan Verbic, who I don't know why he was removed if he was good? And I don't know why he keeps working in your ministry if he was good? So there was no reason to replace a good minister. There's no reason to leave it at the Ministry of the Bad Minister you've replaced. But it's already SNS personnel policy, so I don't get into it. I'm talking about something completely different. I'm talking about one discontinuity of Serbian education in the absence of a clear plan, in the absence of experts who have been seriously involved in reforming education and imposing a Western model of education that has been imposed on Serbia for 15 years. Here, let's say, in order for us to bring these amendments to the Higher Education Act, we must, as the Government suggests, have so-called. a statement on the compliance of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act with EU rules. For me, it's a common nebulosis. I don't see why we should be harmonising our Higher Education Act with anyone's regulations outside this country. Is this a "banana state"? Is this some kind of colonial state? Is this state not entitled to pass its laws, that every law in the Republic Assembly must have a declaration of compliance with EU rules. I'm protesting against it. I protest against imposing laws on the side, protesting the copying of laws from the West imposed on this society and on the state, protesting the non-compliance of these Western and European laws with our legal traditions, with our history, with our culture, with our identity, with our national interests and everything else, which should actually be in the first place, not the European Union. This is our problem these 16 years, which is the European Union in the first place, and our national and state interests, our identity, our heritage, our fluids, are simply pushed into the second plan. We have serious educational unions, Mr. Minister. Our educational unions care not only about material status, which is one of the important obligations of trade union activities, but worry about the seriousness of reforming education in Serbia. I would recommend that you look at a number of serious documents made by the Union of Educational Workers' Union, which are very serious, in a series of round tables, dedicated themselves to reforming education. These are people who are in benches every day, people who keep logs every day, people who work with children every day, and they know better education than EU theorists, than NGOs, than educators and psychologists who reform our education. In a concrete translation of these amendments and additions to the law, that means that we here, for example, as the first problem we face, have a situation where this legislative change comes late. The colleges are already, if I'm right, and I'd like you to deny me, this is the greatest interest of our debate today, getting a memo to work as if amendments to the law were passed. You deny me if I'm wrong. What does that mean? The entry into the new school year began on October 1st. Today is October 18th and will be completed, or finished, until the adoption of this law, as recommended by the draft law. This is one brilliant legislative novelty in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism and legislation. From now on, Mr. Martinovic, the SNS will enter the history of law as one genius inventor of a new legal institute called - to work under a bill that will just enter the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3627	Please, Mr. Bradovich, there's no need to speak to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3628	Didn't I commend these legal steps of the SNS? It's not good when I criticize them, it's not good when I praise them, I really don't know how to act?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3629	Still go back to what's the essence of this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3630	Let's go back to what was already said here, though this is a really genius thing to follow the bill. Perhaps that's how the SNS will arrange all areas of our society and according to a bill that will once enter the procedure to operate in Serbia? That would be one nice way to introduce a complete one-party system. Anyway, we have other problems here. We've already heard about the problems of those who are in master's and doctoral studies by so-called. The old system, and I don't see why they're being discriminated against so that they can't continue their studies, or postgraduate studies, as well as others? There is another problem that may not have been seen enough, which is students who have been enrolled in Bologna since 2006, so 2006, 2007, 2008, and who have the right under the law and decision of the University to complete four-year studies in nine years, which also expired 1. 10th time, 2015. And there was also a very creative solution, which is about to be seen as the end of their status as students, and then they re-enter, with the recognition of all the items laid down. So this is how the bolognas become senior students. They can finish their studies to infinity, or, for example, this year, enroll their 11th year of study. And so, administratively, they maintained the status of senior students. However, according to these amendments and the amendments to the Law, we have intervened in this direction with one amendment, and are now practically discriminated against by these students who are enrolled in Bologna. Why can studies be extended to those enrolled as old and cannot be extended to those enrolled in Bologna? Or, they're pushing for this re-enlistment, which means a new payment, which means a new index, which means a new earning for colleges. Why would they be materially discriminated against the old students? If you allow old students to be able to extend their study for two years, please accept our amendment and allow all students enrolled in Bologna since 2006 to also be able to extend their studies without new enrolment and a new index. And what we have also observed here is that we are proposing a principle -- either to meet everyone, or not to meet anyone. Simply, it would be elementary justice and honesty, and not so selectively, one you go out to meet and extend study, and the other you don't allow it. The conclusion of the story is that you are untimely bringing these amendments and additions to the law, you are more than 18 days late, introducing a new legal practice that follows the draft law in the assembly procedure, which is a really brilliant invention, you did not come before us with serious legal changes of this already broken Bologna process in Serbia, which is proof that SNS has no idea in five years of Serbian education, because several times in the government would not change ministers, and introduce discrimination among students, you are going to meet a group of students, and you are not going to meet another group of students. For you, of course, it is probably the most important that you have made a statement here on the compliance of this draft law with EU rules, because that is obviously the most important thing for this government. The European Union is a hindrance to this government from the interests of Serbian students, Serbian mothers, maternity, domestic businessmen and everything else we could hear these days from the Prime Minister, who has not yet apologized for those unprecedented insults to all Serbian mothers and maternity families, who he has accused of taking money for the birth of children. It's really something that's never been seen before. I ask you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia never again allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give certain orders, directives, recommendations to anyone in this country to follow the laws. Let this be the last law to be followed before it is brought to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3631	You have the right to a replica if you want. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3632	I point out the violation of Article 106, Mr. Arsic, that the speaker can only speak of the agenda point. Mr. Bosko Obradovic talked about everything, only at least he talked about the agenda point. First, Mr. Bosko Obradovic did not apologize to the woman he beat in the Republic Election Commission. We at SNS don't accept that a bully and a bully is giving us lessons about women's rights. Let me tell you something, Mr. Beard, you can do it for yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3633	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3634	... to claim that you are a hundred times the size of all of us together and that you know Serbian history better than all of us together, but I tell you - you have no idea. Prince Milos, then Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic, then Prince Michael, then King Milan, and all the other Serbian princes and kings sent the best Serbian sons to school in Vienna, Pest, Berlin and Paris. And in that 19th century, there were people like you who didn't understand the importance of new ideas for the development of a modern Serbian state and called them, you know, "Germans", those who were educated in Germany, for those like you, who think they're the smartest and know everything, said "Germans", and for those who were educated in Paris "parislie". But here are those "Germans" and just those "parislies", who built a high school in Belgrade, which became Belgrade University in 1905. Just these "Germans" and these very "parislies" have become the best lawyers in the restored Serbian state in the 19th century. They are the creators of the best laws the principality, or the Kingdom of Serbia had.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3635	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3636	So before you hit the SNS, please look back a little bit in history and see that what the SNS is doing today was done by the best Serbian sons who in the 19th century restored the Serbian state, including education. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3637	I believe, Mr Martinovic, that no Rules of Procedure has been broken and that this was in fact one replica, and in accordance with Article 103, these two minutes will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. He's got a word. You have no right to a replica. [[Bosko Obradović, from town: Right to replica.]] (Bosko Obradović, from the place: I broke my wife's hand, name and last name. You do not have the right to reply because it has received the right to discuss. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. () Sign up, if you want by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3638	Dear Chairman, you have so far shown tolerance and correctness in giving replicas. I'm referring to Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which clearly states in Section 2. - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. Why couldn't I report for the right to a replica, even though I was accused by Mr. Martinovic of ever breaking a woman's hand, which I've never done in my life? Because you made it possible for him to deal with the replica in the context of the Rules of Procedure's injury. That is why it is now natural for you to allow me, or in the context of this breach of the Rules of Procedure, to replicate or give me the right to reply. So it is truly a shame that you allow the president of the SNS parliamentary group to present such untruths, lies and slanders as he just said without warning him. So, if I had ever broken anyone's hand, you would certainly have recorded it with cameras and exploited it throughout the public. And you, Mr. Martinovic, gave up your own proposal for a polling committee to investigate the electoral theft, admitting that it was all a lie and a fake by the SNS. If there were any truth in it, you'd have come forward to make a survey board and prove that I was doing anything except rebelling against election theft, and you'll never forbid it. I've always rebelled, and I'll always rebel against every electoral theft committed by any authority, including yours. In that sense, I think it is really correct or that we all have the right to replicate or that we all have the right to replicate and introduce this practice in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and respect for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3639	Comrade Obradovic, you have done the same as your colleague Martinovic, however, somewhat shorter, one minute from the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Martinovic, you still have the right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it doesn't matter what I say about what Bosko Obradovic did, but the cameras have recorded that Bosko Obradovic broke into the Republic Election Commission from the gallery there in King Milan, tossing people from the Republic Election Commission – the bastard, the thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3641	Please, which member I broke just say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3642	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Afterwards, Bosko Obradovic turned his wife and beat her, Maja Pejcic, in the Republic Election Commission, just because the election results presented by the Republic Election Commission did not match him that night. Now Bosko Obradović can say about me or my colleagues whatever comes to mind, but as far as I know, neither Vladimir Orlic, nor Mr Bojanić, nor Serbs Filipović, nor Marko Parezanovic, as far as I know, any woman has ever been beaten, never turned their hands and talked to them about the rights of women, the rights of mothers, etc. Well, that Maja Pejcic, too, you know, Mr. Arsic, is a woman. Maybe she's a mother, too. Maybe she's a wife, too. Well, where was this humanity and heroism at Bosko Obradovic's when that same Maja Pejcic, who, woman, no more than 60 kilos, turned his hand? So I'm not going to let anyone throw a finger at the SNS parliamentary group and tell us that we're against the rights of mothers, against women's rights. Who? The same one who beats women, the same one who twists his hands to women, only because the election results are not according to his will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3643	Two minutes again, in accordance with Article 103. The right to replica now has a MP, Vladimir Orlic, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right to the replica for mentioning SNS, and on many occasions, by those who are obviously fascinated by it, which, of course, should not be surprised, is it? Those who are aware of their own importance, who are not very envious, need to probably rely on someone they admire, whom they envy. But just one note, it's no proof of anyone's courage. It's just evidence of someone's insignificantness. Everything else that's been said, and it's said by you already know who, it's done in the manner of a classic bully. That should be noted, and it is not bad to know because, as it was, the reminder can be good, it can be good. In the manner of a classic bully, just like anything else we can see from the same people in this room, but not just in this room. When we mentioned the Republic Election Commission, it is, ladies and gentlemen, an identical manner, therefore, of a man who doesn't even know what he's doing or knows what he wants, but he knows that he has a terrible need to hear it loudly. So when he mentions the SNS and when he mentions our white book, it's a good thing he heard about it, it's a shame he obviously didn't read it. That's too bad, but not weird, because a man who can't read the Rules of Procedure in a few months' time doesn't believe he can master any more serious material than that. Notice on my part, Mr. Chairman, that class for Members of the People to whom this first convocation may not be a bad thing to organize again. Some people here could use a lot of help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3645	Thank you. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3646	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for showing this that I was right when I said that you were leading the meetings in a correct and parliamentary way. What I really want here, really, to talk this seriously, is whether we can tolerate this kind of lie and slander and forgeries. It is simply that no messenger who has raised his hand to one woman in his life should sit in the house of the National Assembly, starting with me or anyone else who has ever done so. If that's proven, if there's evidence for that, precisely because you used that kind of lie in the pre-election campaign, we released a video of what happened in the election commission's basements where we showed from four different cameras what really happened there and where no violence is seen, but the most common opposition to election theft and thieving by members of the SNS presidency. So this thing we could solve in a very elegant way, and there's no reason to solve it this way. You have proposed a committee of inquiry to determine the circumstances of the election night and the seat of the RIK. As the ruling majority, you refused to put the establishment of a survey committee proposed by Aleksandar Martinovic on the agenda. You rejected your own proposal and thus proved that it was all a farce, a lie and a use in political marketing, in that election week when we proved to you that you stole the election. If it were the opposite, you would run with pleasure to form a survey board and prove that I did anything illegal there. You refused to prove it, so you have no evidence and you refused what we suggested to form a committee of inquiry and to investigate the real electoral theft. So you're afraid of the truth about the election theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3647	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3648	When at a press conference right after World War II, they asked a high-ranking communist official if political unthinkers were in your prisons. He said no. Well, what he says to them, they do. We don't beat them, we just separate the grain from the weeds. There, about what Boško Obradovica says looks like. He didn't twist anyone's hand, he didn't beat anyone, he was just trying to establish election irregularities, so Maji Pejcic, tried to break his hand, told her garbage, liars, who knows what kind of insults he didn't make, and in this way he was dealing with determining election irregularities and then in hatred of the SNS, not knowing what he was going to say, so he says - you were talking about it in the election campaign. Listen, we talked in the election campaign, and he beat up a woman when the election was over. You were Mr. Obradic, beating Maja Pejcic when the election was over. What election campaign are you talking about, and where do you get the right to teach us the rights of women, the rights of mothers? You have some paper that you are the exclusive advocate of women's rights and mothers' rights in Serbia. What's this about? I'm a father to two daughters over ten, what do you love my children more than I do? You're protecting them? Well, you would, when they grow up, turn your hands the same way you did to this Maya Pejcic, so she's someone's daughter, and she's someone's child, and she's somebody's mother, and she's somebody's wife, and you're just squinting? What, you have a certificate that you're exclusive Serbs, exclusive family people? No one likes Serbia but you? Great, only then you don't get any more votes in the election. You only have one problem. You don't have a problem with SNS, you have a problem with the people. People don't recognize you for what you think you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3649	Right on the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3650	Dear Mr. Chairman and dear colleagues, I was really right when I was talking about having a science factory in our society. One of these is obviously Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic who does not know the basics of electoral law. The election did not end on election night, until the final results were announced, until the re-vote at a number of polling stations was again not over. You were still campaigning, Mr. Martinovic. That campaign lasted until the so-called. The second round of these extraordinary parliamentary elections that took place later, and therefore you had a need to campaign and after I had finished saying so in the first round. So I was very accurate and precise when I said that your election, pre-election, whatever campaign you want continued on election night. You had to find a way out of an election theft attempt. The way you tried to get out of an election theft attempt that you undoubtedly did to release at least three opposition electoral lists under censorship to get more MPs, you did so by inventing some kind of violence in the RIK. If you had one proof of that, then all the TVs, starting with your Pink as a propaganda center every day for 24 hours, would broadcast that twist of arms if it existed. If you had found one stain on our biography in 18 years, it would have been spinning all day in the Informer in Pink. That's all you have is slander and lies and arson.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3651	The word has a colleague, Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election campaign ended on 24 April for the SNS. After that, no campaign was conducted. We've turned back to work. The government kept doing its job. We have begun preparations for the establishment of the National Assembly. The campaign was led by you, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, along with the DS, along with all parties who remained more or less in opposition. You organized a meeting in front of RIK headquarters in King Milan number 14. At the time, you were not bothered by Bojan Pajtic, nor by the long-colored flags. Everyone was welcome to support you to cross the censorship. So you have to make a difference between you and the SNS. For us, the election was over on April 24th. You continued the election campaign after 24 April and that with the parties you claim to have ruined Serbia, that they had committed robbery privatisations. Today you also told Mr. Minister of Education that these are parties that have destroyed our education system, but all these parties were good for you in the follow-up to your election campaign when they were supposed to help you cross the censorship. And great, Bojan Pajtic helped you, you got a few hundred votes from him, you crossed the census, and no one has anything against it. But don't say that the whole of Serbia didn't see what she saw, that you, as you say in the RIK basement, don't know what you're going to do in the basement, beat your wife, twist her hand, say the biggest possible insults. So that's what the cameras recorded. Don't look ridiculous now as one of your coalition partners who claims that these co-workers who run the stenogram have not written that the Chinese have slaves in Serbia. So what people saw, what people heard, that you can't argue. You can say a hundred times that you didn't do it, the cameras recorded it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3653	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3654	Thank you. I wanted to point to article 107's content since it was broken on several grounds. So again we had a direct address. Again, we have had an offensive address from the MPs to the other peoples. I'm not going to ask you to make a statement about this, I can tell you right now. I won't ask because I understand that you see what we see and everyone else here in the O.R., that some people here can't possibly expect anything better. I understand that there's something broader about tolerance, but I think we need to be precise about the rules. Although it's clear to all of us here that some of us can't expect better to try to make scandals and games of great importance to themselves, this is already becoming quite comical, offensive, but equally comical. I don't think the National Assembly deserves it, so I don't think it's too bad to remind this member, as comically as much as that scene from the teaching story about how on some hanging bridge an elephant and a mouse met and how very pleased the mouse realized that this bridge was rocking well when the two of them met there, comically, ladies and gentlemen. But, again, let's keep the seriousness of this place where we are. It wouldn't be a bad idea to take care of what we're saying to each other, and what kind of impression we want to leave to people who are looking at all this. Because, you know, because of some who have dealt with such things before, the people have stopped appreciating politics to the extent that many good people might and many good people don't today have a desire to deal with politics because they, like the man who performs here on the other side of the hall, have made her unattractive, done her harm and taken her reputation, so we all ask ourselves together -- do we want to send such a picture from this room further? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3655	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Slowly, my colleague Bozovic, you are not the only one looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. There's more colleagues. I see things are getting out of hand, so now I'm setting a regular break of an hour. We continue work at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3657	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, since the constitution of Parliament and government, this is the first day that you are here in this high House and that we are even discussing education and education through the amendments and additions of the Higher Education Act that you have proposed. Given my professional and working experience, I think this is a good opportunity and that we, who are going to discuss this debate today, say something at all about education. I dare say from this place that so far in education has mostly been flirted with with the reform of education, and a little has been done. Perhaps because in this vault they were not recognized and engaged people from the craftsmanship and because, in my opinion, they were neglected two basic pedagogical tools, which are methods and didactics. What are we missing in our education and education system? In my opinion, we lack the integration of our programs with recognition in the world. We miss overcoming the classical and reproductive system of teaching and moving to the functional knowledge of our students, which we could see also based on the results of the 2012 PISA tests, and then at the Ministry of Education we had an administrative and financial problem, so we didn't have a test of our students in 2015. According to the information I have, this problem is overcome and we are expected to be tested by our students in 2018, which will be an opportunity based on which results we will have key information regarding the level of functional knowledge of our students. In my opinion, we have three problems in our education and education. The first is that no positive world experience is applied, the second is that we don't invest much in people in teaching and applying fixed patterns, and the negative result is that we do very little in children. I believe you will agree with me that the key is in a well-set system in which there must be open dialogue and trust. That's why our goal should be to get our kids out of school as builders and to have great knowledge. That is why I expect, Your Honors Minister, that this problem that I am talking about at the Ministry of Education will be recognised as being treated with appropriate legal solutions. I have to say to this occasion that my MP group, even in the previous session, handed over a law on teaching exercises to the Ministry of Education with the aim of launching reforms in the field of education. The essence of this law is how to educate future teachers, because they have to actually transfer knowledge and be well educated, but unfortunately, it was not discussed and it does not matter what the parliamentary group has submitted. The important thing is that we recognized this problem, but unfortunately we didn't get any answers. We felt that this legal solution could only be a basis for better teacher education, or teacher who conveys knowledge. In my opinion, education reform needs to change the paradigm of knowledge and it starts from preschool institutions, through basic education which is the basic foundation of society, to reforming people who actually need to transfer functional knowledge. I would remind you, both the viewers and all of us, of what Churchill said when World War II began and when he informed at one session of his government members that the UK must enter the war, but that they do not have enough money. Some of the people who were present told him, so take from education. And his answer was: then what shall we defend? This is the essence of a responsible relationship with education. Education is a slow process, but the only process that provides far-reaching answers and certainly society and a secure economy is being built on education and so far there have been various challenges, but the real leap still, unfortunately, no. This is the moment when, I think you're aware of it, too, we can't wait any longer, and when Prime Minister Vukic is in the exhibit a few days ago, at the government's meeting in Nis, he said he expects the safe work of GDP in Serbia. The safe growth of GDP in one longer term cannot be without investment in education. It's clear to all of us who have anything to do with the teaching profession. What is very important, in my opinion, is that we must restore our dignity to our education, we must give it back its significance, and that is something that people's MPs and citizens of Serbia expect from you and your associates in the coming period, and you don't have much time, with reforms so far have been very late. The root of a safe and stable society is certainly education. Why do we have to restore functional knowledge? Because I believe that then our students and our finished students will be operational and will be able to compete in all knowledge markets, because knowledge is the greatest resource of a nation that, of course, no one can take away from us and that we will always, with any problem we face, precisely because of a well-established system in education, be able to get away with it. From this reform that you have announced, we should also deal with all forms of corruption in education. Also, there is a need to reform higher education with the sea of troubled diplomas behind which knowledge does not stand. What is also important in my opinion, we must raise the educational role of the school, which is something that is our generational problem, a few decades back, because we have to start raising our generations, that is, in fact, the biggest and most important public good of the state. I very much appreciate your previous work and your experience as the director of a state school and all the knowledge and all the experience you later applied in your private business. I must tell you that both members of the Committee on Science and Education and we MPs are very closely following all your statements and statements made by your co-workers in the field of education reform. I agree with your announcements that we have caught somewhere with European countries when it comes to dual education, that there is a need to introduce IT into schools and that since this fall we have not introduced this subject, except that it is not set in the right way, but I believe that this year will be a sufficient framework to see what problems of technical nature are primarily in schools, so that next year, with the teaching of information, we will begin much more prepared in September of the month. Of course, entrepreneurial education and education, this is the year when the government of the Republic of Serbia declared a year of entrepreneurship. I must tell you that at the beginning of last term, I was in some way shocked by the results of the Association of Business Women of Serbia which they carried out over a sample of eighth-grade students in that study, over 90% of them in fact pointed out that they wanted to work in state structures. When I came here to this high house, we had a session where all the members of the government and previous Minister Verbić asked that question – when are we planning to introduce entrepreneurial education to our schools? I will quote his answer: “We do not need new items, we need new contents. ” To this day, there were no new contents in the textbooks, nor this subject. You said in Prokuplje, unless I was wrong yesterday, or the day before yesterday, that in the coming period the capacity of the school administration and the inspection will be increased. I agree. I'm just asking for a supplement from you in what way and what time. Also, I agree with you that a parent should be involved in increasing the educational role of the school, because somewhere in school is best seen all the problems facing the family. It is true that we lost that basic thread in raising our children between parents, students and teachers. Certainly parents should be involved in educational activities. I can't, like you said, pass without responsibility for the way kids behave, which they don't come to school. But I'm asking you, they should also give a teacher's grade, but I'm asking if the ministry has set certain criteria on which parents will be able to grade teachers? Why do I ask you that? Because I'm afraid of certain abuses by some parents and I'm asking how, for example, will a parent evaluate a physics teacher? By what criteria? Also, I'm interested in what you're planning on doing with your textbooks? What are you planning on reforming high school? Is there a new law being drafted on, not a new, practical law on high school reform? I have to tell you this time that, as far as the education strategy is concerned, in my opinion, you made one incorrect statement. You said she was adopted from 16 years ago. We have an education strategy adopted at the Government on 25 October 2012 and implemented by 2020. Maybe we can say that she's not good and that she's not being implemented well, but that we don't have an education strategy that's practically not true. For the end of the day, I also have to give you one objection, it was simply inadmissible for you and your associates to leave out PhDs and future studies of master studies with this extension of the deadline. It's just inadmissible that you've had such a failure. Of course, my fellow MPs have submitted an amendment that will correct and perhaps better that you initially had this kind of mistake to practically control your associates better. Finally, I would like to tell you that, with this amendment, the NS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the law. I also want to tell you that in this high house you will have the support of us MPs for education reforms that are necessary and that we can no longer wait. But you must also be sure that within our control role, we too will criticise everything we do not consider to be good, and it comes from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3658	Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak to the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3659	Thank you. Dear Parliament, honourable representatives of legislators, respected citizens, allow me first to determine the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed, and the Assembly has adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education on 4 October of the current year i.e. four days after the force of the applicable Law on Higher Education, students of all levels of studies are enrolled according to the so-called "Students of Higher Education". The old plan, lost the right to study and end up as planned. Therefore, all students of all levels of study, except students of integrated studies from the field of medical science to which the deadline expires at the end of school 2016/2017. They've lost their rights for years. In that sense, I find the promoter is too late with this proposal. How do we know that? Article 123(1), which is the subject of the amendment and supplement law, states that students enrolled in primary studies and studies in higher schools until the entry into force of this law may complete these studies according to the start of the curricula and the programme in the conditions and rules of study, no later than the end of the school 2015/2016. the year, i.e. until the end of 2016/2017. years for students of integrated studies from the field of medical science. So, school 2015/2016 the year ended on 30 September and the new school year 2016/2017. It began if, by law, it was, by the rule of October 1st, the current year, so almost 20 days ago. In that sense, it is my duty to conclude that the legal assumptions for the timely application of the proposed solutions are not provided because the deadline has expired. I also draw attention to MPs, citizens as well as to suggest that at the sixth point of the reasoning, where the need for the law to be published before the eight-day deadline in "The Official Messenger" is stated by an incomplete provision of the law. It is said that the reasons why the law is proposed to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" are in the fact that according to this law, a higher education institution organises and conducts a study during the school year, which quotes, as a rule begins in October. What we need to know is that the school year begins on October 1st, so not in October, and I suppose the failure is unintentioned, by asking the representatives of the promoter to explain this failure to remove any doubt that there has been any other reason, because this law is clearly now a law with a return fact and it is very important that we understand why the law came with delay. So, the deadline is up, the government is late, the timely application of the proposed solutions is not possible, which more students are practically losing the right to complete studies as usual, at the end of school 2016/2017. years lost student status. So we'd have to get it back. As for the feedback of the law I mentioned, since I believe it has one, Article 197. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is strictly forbidden by the backdrop of the law, only certain provisions of the law may have a return fact, if this implies a general interest in the adoption of the law. This law, if adopted, will enter into force after students have already lost their legal right to complete their studies as usual, or after the school year has already begun. I find that this late proposed law contains provisions with a return fact, at least one, if not all, for which no general interest is identified which would require a feedback. Therefore, no general interest has been established in the very reason, as has not been proposed. You should think about eventually doing so, and what more since it comes with that delay, he's doing damage that I'm going to talk about later. So, as the draft law proposed, and the Assembly received, after the deadline, it was necessary to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 151 paragraph 2. 5) and to state that a return fact was proposed, as well as a general interest for which a return fact is proposed. I find that the promoter has failed to do so and I ask the Proposer – have you considered possibly that this law is potentially anti-constitutional and that if adopted, it could lead to the launch of an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality and legality? I must say, we will support this law on condition that it is introduced into constitutional frameworks. We've proposed some amendments to that, and then we'll have a chance to discuss it when the debate comes in particular. As for the unwarranted nature of the emergency procedure, let me just say that the Government is proposing to the Assembly that, in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure, this law is passed by emergency procedure. In order for the law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, we really need to know as MPs, it is that two assumptions of urgency must be fulfilled, one of which is that the issue or the relationship that has been governed by circumstances that could not be foreseen, and then, if the law is not passed by an emergency procedure, it could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, and then the country's safety, the work of organs and organisations, as well as for the fulfilment of international obligations, etc. It is therefore very important issues of threat, the right to life and work or the work of organisations. In the case of this law, I really believe that conjecture and urgency are not fulfilled, and now I'm going to explain it. Circumstances could certainly have been predicted. I don't think there's any doubt. The extension of the deadline for completion of the study has so far been adopted four times in the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The initial 2005 deadline for studies to be completed for the longest two years following the end of the regular duration of the study, which has been mentioned here several times, was changed first in 2008 by the end of 2011/2012. the year, then 2010 until the end of 2013/2014, and 2012 until the end of 2015/2016. A year. So every time every two years in a very proper rhythm and it was quite expected that this would happen this same year, since nothing that would have warned this. The correctness is quite visible. In that sense, circumstances could be predicted and that is not the reason for the law being passed by emergency procedure. I'd ask the Proposer to explain any urgent circumstances we had that we couldn't have predicted. We didn't hear it in the previous explanation. Perhaps there is, so it might not be bad to hear that argument so MPs can properly determine themselves according to the law. I note that in all previous cases it was also about timely changes. This is the first time a change isn't timely. I will ignore 2008 because there was no deadline for the end of the school year, but for seven years since the start of the study. So, very individually to individual students. It wasn't a fixed deadline. This is the first time he's late with the bill. In 2010, it was adopted on June 30, 2012, on September 28th, 2014, and I think it would be very important to explain whether there were absolutely unpredictable circumstances that led to this being done and what MPs could now be removed from the suspicion that it was not actually a delay due to some kind of suspension or some ad hoc intervention that solves the problem in a potentially wrong way. It is possible, however, that what could not be predicted, as I am talking about unpredictability, is a change in the training of the previous government and the current government as to whether the deadline will extend. In fact, the previous government as well as the competent bodies, I include the National Council for Higher Education, so to speak, set expectations for both students and organisations that the deadline will not be extended. Those expectations have been met. The deadline was not extended on September 30, or October 1st, when a new school year began and practically this law, this bill now, I must say, we are failing expectations and I believe that the expectations that have been confirmed have also led to some behaviour, which I will talk about when I speak of the adverse consequences. So the question is, why isn't the bill done on time? What petty reasons have defined this government to do so? As for the adverse consequences, the second assumption of urgency is also questionable. First of all, it is not clear from the reasons that the adverse consequences will cause the law to be passed, since there is no adequate analysis of the adverse consequences. We just don't know what the adverse consequences are. We can't turn them into any measurable indicator that would tell us what it is and how much damage that damage was done then, and that had to be done, I repeat, by Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. – when the proposer proposes a law, especially if it is an emergency procedure, then it must also explain the harmful circumstances that arise as a result of not entering. But what have we got going on here? The adverse consequences and if they are not justified and assuming that there really are, I don't know if there are any, we need to see if there are any, they have already arisen, because Article 123 of Section 1 has not been changed in time. So it does not stand out as the proposer stated, that it is important to amend the provisions that are subject to the amendments before the school year begins. She started it. This doesn't matter anymore. In that sense, my question to the promoter is - what are the adverse consequences seen, when they are seen and this is naturally related to the subject of urgency, were they observed at some last moment which then simply defined you to propose this law with a broken deadline? Moreover, the adoption of a law with a return fact will potentially result in further adverse consequences that should be determined by analysis and for which recovery should be foreseen. Waiting to resolve the issue of deadlines and students and higher education institutions, today we have had the opportunity to hear this, they have developed several strategies to warn the consequences of not extending the deadline. Now the question arises, since the deadline is expected to be extended, have they made strategies for the resolution of the consequences of the actions taken because they thought the deadline would not be extended? I'm asking a very specific question. Some students have already enrolled in new studies. What's gonna happen to those students? Will your students go back to their old studies now? We'll probably extend the deadline to the magistrates and the doctors. The students of master's and doctoral studies and then my question is – what are we going to do about the students of doctoral studies who could continue to end up as usual, but then, in fear that the deadline will actually expire and enroll studies by new ones and switch to new programmes according to Bologna? How will the system and the work of the organization that these students need to keep in the system and as students in the new and as students in the old or to develop some mechanism, some act, some solution that will then bring these students back to studies by the old or keep them in studies by new? Not to spread, there's a lot of cases like that. There's probably a lot of discrimination. There's a lot of winding up high school institutions. I know the University of Belgrade was doing something. Today we heard that there was some kind of suggestion that it was, I didn't see it with my own eyes, so I can't tell you in detail what it was about, but I'm sure the institutions tried to make the work effective by preparing for a possible break in time. So my question is - how will these adverse consequences be solved by breaking the deadlines on one side, and then by implementing the solution in the broken deadline when the law is passed with delay? I hope I've made myself clear. As far as the analysis is concerned, which is proposed by the proposer to deliver to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of point 2(2) are said to indicate that the analysis of the current situation is particularly important when giving reasons for the regulation. We know we don't have it. I must conclude that the analysis is completely lagging behind, and I would like to ask the rapporteur to present to the MPs the kind of possible analysis, although it is the minister at the outset, but I would like you to be able to look back at it. So, what number of students are we talking about? It's important that we know. What's their structure? So, do we know if it's mostly about graduates? What year did they enroll in their studies? Was it until 2002 when the Law on the University or before came into force and in general what situation students who entered after 2000 are in, because they appear on exams both on the second and third and fourth years of studies, of course, do not listen to classes on these subjects. Do higher education institutions teach? We don't know, maybe they do, maybe they don't. Did all interested parties have a chance to plead? This is very important to me. So did all the interested parties, I mean higher education institutions and students, students are, but higher education institutions, have the opportunity to declare the regulation and what measures will be taken during the application of the regulations in agreement with them? Is the decision to have master and doctoral studies based on objective analysis? We heard the explanation. It is clear that the National Council has made such a decision. We also submitted an amendment to include master's and doctoral studies together in extending the deadline with the students of basic studies. What's important to us is, let's say, to hear the arguments of the National Council, assuming you know them. So why are the students of master and doctoral studies excluded, because every time the deadline was extended to the students of elementary studies, it was extended to the students of master's studies? I'll talk about that amendment later. What I have to say is that we have to be very careful here because there are two other members of the law. One is an independent member of 32. The 2010 Law on Amendments and Supplements, which extends the deadline for masters who have mastered the old law and who is in collegiate with Article 128 of the applicable law, a law that says – that a student who has mastered before the new law has to finish his doctoral studies within seven years. So we have to pay attention to that and I'll talk about it when I talk about the amendment. The final question is, I guess the answer is inert, why is the deadline extended for another two years? So why hasn't it been extended for a year? Why isn't it extended to three, four, etc.? Budget financing. I would have a few questions about this, since there have been a number of effects of the regulations, as to whether the positive consequences of the regulation are such as to justify the costs it will generate. I have a question about Article 2. The bill, it is said, is said to be enrolled for students in the first year of primary studies, with the entry in 2013/2014. the year, determines the right to, quote – to finance from the budget for the longest year after the end of the regular duration of the study. Then it is said that the right to finance is from the budget, again, I quote -- does not require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would now also ask the proponent to explain how it is possible for someone to finance from the budget, without requiring additional funding in the budget, because then either that funding doesn't pay or then some costs cover it. Are they students, are they higher education institutions from their own incomes and, after all, are they and how it affects quality because this provision makes one professor cover the work of several students? As for Article 3, which concerns the right to finance from the budget for students who received 48 points in the bill, it is explained that the costs are 22, slightly higher, 22 billion dinars, or 190m euros. I'd like to ask the promoter to explain the eligibility of the cost and its effects. It's a matter of, we certainly agree with that, a great deal of expense. The comparisons for, here, we mentioned today that painful point of all of us, is that we took 180m euros from the pensioners, and here we're going to spend 190m euros, without practically any impact analysis. With the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in various areas, including education. The passing of the law by emergency procedure, and this after the deadline, with the relativisation of the date and without analysis of the needs and options, solutions, and so for years, certainly does not lead to the arrangement and security of the system. I must point out that the students are the least responsible for this. Thank you. I'll leave time for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3660	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3661	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to begin this presentation on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act to say that our MP group of SPS will support amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. We believe that the Government, i.e. the Resort Ministry, has made one logical move, has given opportunity to students who have not completed their basic studies within a certain deadline, and amendments to the Higher Education Act are scheduled for the next two school years, and for students of integrated studies another school year to complete the studies. In this way, the government achieves one goal, essentially – those students who have not done so so far will have the opportunity to acquire new knowledge and a new professional qualification that will help them to make any progress in the work, whether to retain the existing job. In any case, the government does what is logical – it helps people to get education and essentially, from the point of view of higher education, it is good to increase the number of people with higher education. We, as an SPS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment that we wanted to more precisely edit this member of the law, not only about students of master's and doctoral studies, since I see that all the parliamentary groups have submitted it, and I hope, of course, that the Ministry will accept these amendments, but we also wanted to arrange this article in one way, by ourselves, more concrete way. But the bottom line is that these laws and amendments, which I hope will be accepted, also allow students of master and doctoral studies to begin their studies. What is good and what the minister mentioned in his presentation is that the National Council for Higher Education gave its opinion, because if you look at the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, which speak of the responsibilities of the National Council for Higher Education, he gives opinions on the rules relating to higher education and has a place and role to play on registration policy and on the system of higher education, and it is good that we have the opinion of the National Council. I'm saying this for one simple reason why the other provisions of this law relating to the number of students were not subject to consideration, at least we haven't heard about this particular thing, about the number of points, but it's important for the public to mention, something that is somehow left aside by most fellow Members of Parliament today, is that the opinion of the academic community is in favour of amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. When it comes to the second part of this bill, it's about students who scored 48 points, as a sufficient number of entry points for next year, I have to say that one thing that should be a lesson for all of us. In fact, we have often asked in the debate today why this is not, why this is done, why it is, and it is forgotten that for today's debate, if we really want to be, as my colleague Komlenski said, depolitized and comprehensive and that there are no political interferences, we also miss students and we miss teachers. If we had them here, then we could open this story up to the end and see why we haven't solved things yet or why we're repeating, if you want, building. I am saying this for the reason that I have changed the Law on Higher Education three times, both in 2008 and in 2010 and 2012. In 2008, we found, when I said, I don't mean us from the Ministry, as a man who then led the Ministry, but the entire academic community and Conus, a conference of state and private universities and all universities and student organisations agreed that the goals set by the State in the 2005 Higher Education Act, which began to apply in 2006, were unrealistic, that we had put a lot of it, to say, into the Law, not to make sure that we could achieve it, and that in 2008 we showed that in the September test period the degree of passability of students was 20-30% at universities in Serbia and that we had to amend the Law on Higher Education, to reduce the number of points needed to enroll students, and then we achieved essentially two goals and helped a larger number of students to enroll in the following year, but also to assist the higher education institutions to have the financial resources needed. Few people know that the funds provided by the Ministry of Colleges and High Schools of Professional Studies are more valuable than money, in terms of more than money provided through self-financed students and that, of course, it is more important for every university and how important it is that within the quota granted by the state to enroll students that all those students are enrolled and that the state, I say, regularly pays that funding money for students. Data from some years ago, and I don't believe anything has changed, say that over 52%, 53% of students at state universities and high schools of vocational studies are being financed, or studied at the expense of the state or with the help of the state. It's something to take care of. Of course, one information that a colleague reminded me of today in the debate, when we take the structure of our budget, we have an unfavourable budget structure related to costs, or the work of the Ministry of Education. If 95%, 96% of the funds go to the salaries of employees in the education system, and only 5% for everything else or 4%, or 6%, anyway, and that's a very small amount compared to what should be financed, and then it's set as a limiting factor and the amount of funds needed for the work of higher education institutions. That is why some colleagues also mentioned today the need to help universities, related to certain costs, but I must tell you that it is not just a matter of the ministry, it is a matter of local self-government, because certain cities and municipalities of Serbia have helped individual universities with the price of municipal services or similar, all that is part of the cost of working out of a certain university or university, and from that point of view should see whether the government can recommend to local self-government, since they too couture with money, is the general problem of the whole of Serbia, whether they can help solve another problem. Now I'm going back to 2008, then we had absolute consent to the entire academic community, as well as in 2010 as in 2012. I was reminded today of the provisions of these laws, we were then predicted to be 2015, 2016 and now we have entered 2016/17. Yes 2015/16. will be the last year when, I say, a certain number of points will be valid as the basis for enrollment next year and that by then 2015/16. The year 60 points will be, I say, that start and end of the terms for the New Year's admission. All of us in the academic community expected certain things to happen in the academic community itself, because one thing we talk about is universities and universities, and another thing is that within these higher education institutions themselves, let me say, there is a change of study programs, how classes are performed, how students participate, how students participate, to what extent students participate together with teachers in verifying their knowledge, how this change of knowledge is done. What quality textbooks are, everything that is part of the autonomy of a higher school institution. It's something that stands, to say, as a question that needs to be answered, but we're not the MPs of this assembly competent to answer that question, that's what colleges and universities themselves should say at KONUS and be honest with each other and say where things don't go. If really because of one professor, a colleague, 900 students can't pass one exam, then it's not a problem with students, it's more likely that it's a problem that exists in a colleague who performs the course. What is the systemic approach to solving this case? Why we've been extending these 48 points for years, whether this extension of the number of points speaks of the quality of our higher education, no, but it can affect. I'm saying this because our higher education is very high-quality and I join those MPs who spoke here today about the need to talk about our higher education and our education in general with positive tones, despite everything that exists in the system and what can be qualified as negative. When you look at it, excuse your fellow MPs, our higher education and our science are something that serves our republic besides sports and which we can be proud of. If you look at Belgrade University is among 23,000 universities this year, in 250th place, 2012 was between 400th and 500th place, 2013 achieved an even better result. I'm saying this because among so many universities, when our Belgrade University is so ranked, it still speaks about the quality of higher education, but it's not just Belgrade, there's Novosadski, there's the University of Nis, Kragujevac. So we have something to brag about. The second question is that this ministry can't answer, not even the government, is whether we can provide for all students who finish their studies, whether or not we can get a job. That is why the changes that will be made throughout the education system are important but not only in education but also in society as a whole. To finish this story about students and 48 points. It's a good thing the Ministry adopted this decision, but Mr. Minister, from some experience I have, and believe me, it's rich, I think this issue will only be solved by a new Law on Higher Education and, I say, the need to hear the opinion of the entire academic community. In order not to be attributed to the Ministry or to the National Council for Higher Education, it is a prerequisite for the appropriate steps to have or not heard from the students, because it is very important. Why? Ministers as well as Governments are a passing category, some graduates do not finish but student organisations in each cycle want to defend students' rights to achieve certain goals. That's why we, not taking care of the causes sometimes, we accept certain solutions, but it has to be said that the Ministry is someone who serves students in this case, serves colleges, serves the National Council, because the decision structure in higher education is such that besides the Ministry there is a National Council for Higher Education, there is a Conus and the system is so made that it is logical that the Ministry takes appropriate steps based on the opinion of these institutions. So that's one solution that existed years ago, but unfortunately we never got the question until the end why in some higher education institutions did not take that qualitative step forward towards raising the level of education. And that quality exists is not only the denial of our universities within certain different to say, the quality checking systems of higher education institutions, but also the results achieved by students since 2011, 2012. Here, yesterday in politics, it seems to me, we had a chance to read about the students of the Architectural Faculty whose one project is included among the 28 best that in two years will have the opportunity to practically implement it. In 2011 and 2016 For years, FON students won first place in the world by solving the case study method. Students of the Faculty of Architecture also competed in Berlin in 2011, with a fixed-energy mobile phone supply system. So there's a lot of these innovations. Students of the Faculty of Engineering with the Formula One model, which says we have quality, but we need to translate that quality, to say, into study programmes and of course those innovations that are being achieved to be part of our production and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, Mr. Minister, there's a question that we haven't heard at least today, let me say, some offered answer, so I will dare enter that sphere, and I invite you and the other fellow Members to pay attention to that detail. Education as high as possible cannot be as high-quality and necessary to the state if it does not have the support of the economy and if the economy does not give its input, it does not propose to higher education or other levels of education all that needs to be done by the economy. I am saying this for the reason that in 2009, we had an international conference with the World Bank, and then we were told that in the world, in transition countries, it is not possible to create an education system that could meet the needs of the labour market and that we do not know exactly what the labour market is in transition countries. It's so logical that I don't think there's much to prove. The question arises why our economy is in whatever state it is, and it is in terrible condition after all the things we had with the wrong privatisation and the global economic crisis, why it does not give more support, if you will and financially, because the government of Hungary seemed to have one solution to separate one percent of the company's total income from innovation in the field of education, or the application of these innovations later in production. So, you make a string. We lost a long time ago, or at least to a large extent the relationship between higher education and economy has been lost. As a result, it is not only the breaking and decommissioning of Yugoslavia and the bombing in 1999 and privatisation. There's a lot of reasons to reestablish that relationship. It's not simple at all. It's something that you should absolutely work on in the years to come. I am also very aware of this detail, because both Prime Minister Vukic and the minister spoke about the needs of change and in secondary education. Of course it is, too, because without quality secondary education and this level of education, they should produce professional people who will need the economy of Serbia. But we also need business cooperation. I'm saying this because I know that the labour market and the Chamber of Commerce are making proposals over the years for opening new profiles, but someone needs to take responsibility when some new profile is applied to education, what happens to those students within a certain time frame. So, everything has its own for and against. Mr. Minister, someone mentioned today that in 2012, we were on a strategy for education. I ask you collegiately, not as a member of the ruling coalition, but collectively, look at that document, because that's what competent people did. If something's wrong, then change it, make it better, and if it's okay, try to apply it. If there is resistance to application, then point your finger at whoever needs to tell us who is preventing change in the education system, because change is necessary. They can't happen overnight. No reform means saying – well, now I've started reforming and I'll finish on January 1st. It's a long-term process. In any case, Serbia's future requires that we have quality higher education. If we could become part of the European system of higher education, where there are 47 countries and give opportunities to our students, teachers, teaching staff to give their knowledge and skills, to say, in different parts of Europe can promote and continue their studies, then there is no reason not to tell us – if some things are wrong, why they are not working. I am saying this because this Education Strategy implies more things at all levels of education and at the level of pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education. I just think it's a quality document that can be applied. Action plan has also been brought in. And there are many reasons, with all that the government is doing in the area of economy and in the area, if you will, and legislation and conditions for faster and better employment and for the possibility of foreign companies coming to Serbia, that we should also put that sector in function of Serbia's development. I have to mention one more thing here, which is often ignored. Our education system does not serve only for labour market purposes and is not only for production. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, who finish our education system, among them are some future Meša Selimović or Ivo Andrić or Nadežda Petrovic or similar or future inventor. It won't all be just a matter of needing production. Higher education and education systems generally have to have their own quality, because the country needs different types of personnel. That thing is very simple to solve. In the structure of students at higher education institutions, at least in the past few years, 83%, 84% of students were students of state schools and state higher schools of vocational studies, and 16%, 17% were at private universities and universities, regardless of the number of these universities or universities. There's one more thing that's important. All these students who are enrolled in a certain university are full-time people and decide for themselves what they're going to sign up for. The main thing is for the state to use its strategy and government in its policy and projection of the future to tell Serbia what is needed, and it is your job with the ministry's colleagues to find the right solutions. It won't be easy for you at all. You'll see, the more time you spend in that chair, the harder and harder it's gonna be, but I'm giving you a college advice, you're always asking for the academic community's opinion. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3662	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3663	I end up, not to save myself, but to know in public what the academic community thinks about a certain question, not to be a matter of the ministry and you personally, because when something is good, then everyone is responsible, and when something is wrong, then only the minister is responsible. It is good that you heard the opinion, advice and proposal of the National Council for Higher Education. You've done a good thing for a number of people who can and will go to college and finish their studies and basics, if you adopt these amendments, I hope, both Master's and Doctor's. Our group gives you support in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3664	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the SNS parliamentary group supports the bill we are discussing today. It's the first note for everyone here, but also for the interested public to follow the session. It's about short per its content, not too large a law, so a solution that is more than clear. If someone hasn't sent a public debate in the past weeks, I'm sure after the debate at the National Assembly Hall, it's clear to anyone who followed the debate. Yes, it's true, it's a kind of dating thing for students who have written study programs by so-called. the old programme, i.e. before the introduction into the practice of that programme, those reforms we call Colloquially Bologna. Also, a second note on my part at the very beginning and for the present MPs and for the interested public, the SNS parliamentary group will support an amendment proposal showing this kind of understanding to graduates who have also entered study programmes before the introduction into the practice of Bologna reform. I would like to point out that I agree with all the evaluations that went in the direction of expectations today that we will not be dealing with these issues again. The fact that we have already dealt with them and have been in a position to make certain ad hoc adjustments because of the fact that we relax certain deadlines, to extend certain deadlines several times already, we are doing it again, but we are glad that in today's debate we did not fall into the trap that this issue is fully banalized and reduced to debate whether or not study programs should be limited in time. There used to be an argument on the subject. I'm glad it's a question for everyone today more than clear. So it's clear that there's some deadline with a good reason, that it should exist. It is clear that at some point, it should also be said that there was indeed enough flexibility in terms of dealing with these deadlines through amendments to the law, and above all in these ad hoc variants, although this bill also concerns other things, therefore, the right to study and under the budget for newer generations over a year after the completion of basic studies, i.e. the question of the famous level or threshold of ESP points for study under the conditions of budgetary funding. This has already been stated today in certain arguments, indeed, something that should be solved through the law itself, to avoid any need to do so again in this way. If the real measure is somewhere on those 48 points or if it's already calculated how realistic it is, if those 60, as much as it says in the article, whether it was 94 or 88, it's not real, then the law should read the same thing. I totally agree with that. With this message that we should definitely say once that we will no longer be dealing with this issue, I will end this debate, but not now, but a few minutes later. I'll go back to her. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing a certain width to be discussed during today's debate. The theme is interesting, the topic is important. I'll take the opportunity to give a few notes on my part about certain comments, loud thinking or whatever, that we shared in this room today. First of all, it concerns the comments made by certain authorised representatives concerning the so-called so-called The devaluation of knowledge, the hyperproduction of doctorate, and you already know how some of the favorite subjects of certain people here sound. There were also different officials, even terms like counterfeiting, right? And, of course, it's all respected by the advanced majority. Some of those who have given such grades today I see in the O.R., but not all of them. Just because of those who are only in this assembly, the MPs, not because of those who have said such things, and who have been here and in the previous term and who know very well what happened in this room, and who we have dealt with all the legal solutions, because of those who may have failed to send it, it would not be bad to look at legal solutions adopted by these terrible advanced majority, and it is about just high education, and it is about, for example, scientific and research activities, to look at open windows to establish direct co-operation between higher education, science, research and economy, which is the only real, natural, correct recipe for everything that should be nice and good, useful to draw up as a good effect on these topics. That's what she did, that very terrible advance majority, so whoever wants to continue to deal with counterfeiting issues or whatever, to be honest with the truth, and the truth is good. To be honest, it wouldn't be bad for her to know, even if she did say that this terrible majority had introduced her through legal solutions and the Committee on Ethics in Science. It's not one of those who's disgusted by some of the phenomena that come up with their own designs and caricatures themselves, it's that progressive majority. And the digital repositories of doctoral dissertation, believe it or not, that majority again. Just to know what kind of relationship there is in this matter and who shows his attitude and his approach, and who only talks about certain things. Furthermore, there were various comments on the subject of some data, research, statistics, the question was, what was done when some parameters were bad? For example, we heard a comment that we are incapable of keeping the experts. Why? Because education isn't good for us, and then it means those bad experts of ours, they want so much everywhere in the world. It's unserious, but there's a lot of unserious being said here, and this wasn't the worst thing that's been said in this room, but slowly, we'll talk about everything. Also, there were some indices. The Competitiveness Index, for example, is one of its subindex, “the wisdom of omnia and numery et menzure. ” So if we're going to talk about these things, let's remind ourselves of the numbers, or, if we missed out on mentioning them, let's still turn around and look at them. That index, the competitiveness index, has been talking about some recent research. How could none of these concerned authorised representatives say that Serbia has made progress according to that parameter? Satisfied or not by how it is quoted, it stands better today than it stood before the publication of this report, that is, before the reporting period. So Serbia is progressing on that as well. As for that sub-index or whatever, it's not a measure, but as there is a global index for competitiveness, so there is an innovation. It's a big title of research only a month ago. Serbia is not at any beginning, ladies and gentlemen, says nice – a golden environment. A golden environment among all the states of the world. To be clear, I'm among those who are not the most in the middle, not quite satisfied. I'm one of those who advocates that we should fight for the top, but if we're going to share any data, then it's good to stick to relevant data and back to the truth. Unbelievable, but she's really important. And what has been done in this country? It also has to do with those things that concern the opportunity for these people, young people who went abroad, and not only about highly educated people, it's not just about people who are highly professional, it happens literally to everyone and age and all categories of education, by social status, whatever you want. The opportunity to stay in Serbia is directly linked to the stability of this country, this society and is directly linked to its economic capabilities and are not without reason and peace and stability and economic development in the elemental focus of the SNS and this government. It is precisely the results that we are achieving on this plan that are the direct answer to these questions. So when someone here is talking about brain drain, and he's showing in practice that he's not able to keep his jobs, not to keep his jobs, but when you look at the indicators, it's again that "et menzure", concrete measurable data publicly displayed, for example, on the website of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, here, while we're talking, you check, that in the period when someone or someone was showing you what they can or can't do. The number of jobs demoted by hundreds of thousands and then someone wondered why people were leaving. Something respects us, and the same statistics say that today the change in the number of employees is happening in a positive direction and the order of size is there, in those hundreds of thousands. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an answer enough. That we no longer spend on mutual debates in large political debates and words that should be sound. Clear, concrete, measurable data. So, also reducing the unemployment rate and increasing the employment rate. When someone wonders what absolute numbers are, it's no problem, we can share them, but they don't like that statistic because that statistics showed some things they're ashamed of, which they'd rather run away from. Again, of course, I mean the hundreds of thousands of jobs lost just a few years back. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the real answers as to how the chances are created for young people to stay in Serbia, to see some perspective, to want to base their families in it, by holding on to peace, by maintaining stability and by opening up economic opportunities, by opening up new jobs. It's very simple. It's not easy to realize, but, as you can see from the results of this government, it's possible. Furthermore, as for the various comments, and yet in the direction of what should be done, and what the state should not do, in what way it directs the money at its disposal, and yet directly on this issue, with this issue of jobs in Serbia, is heard today, I would say, completely inappropriate assessments, and on some topics that are well known and very inspiring, motivate certain here. The issue of subsidies, the question of certain projects, the one for hiring party armies, I won't comment, because it's not worth any answer. And on this "Belgrade on Water", while working, and in it when built, not, as someone said, a handful or a small number of people will benefit, but all those people who will work to build it, who will be employed in it. When we talk about subsidies, anyone who gets a job, and we talk from place to place, thousands, hundreds to thousands, thousands to tens of thousands, so we come to a total cumulative order of magnitude that is extremely important. All those people who have worked through these projects have gotten something that means something to them, which is worth it to them. It is rude, inappropriate and completely degutant to use terms such as "slaves", "slave ownership", etc. It's about a chance that's worth somebody and who's happy to accept that they're going to work. What's better? I don't have a chance like that at all. Is that a solution? I'd say that's not the answer, and I think everyone understands that, but they won't say it out loud to everyone. There are some that are only important to criticise, although some things may not mean serious, upside down, if they mean it seriously. Otherwise, this was specifically said by the one who managed to offend completely inappropriate comments about some slaves and slave owners of Chinese investors the other day in this room. The same one today has managed to bring up African countries in a negative context and I can only say all the honor, allal religion. However, these are not messages. These statistics, these results and those thousands of people who came to work are real answers, real messages about perspective and chances in Serbia, and at least they're real messages, as they were, saying that we who don't have the brain that we're staying here. Is that what happened? And that we'll all be uneducated labour. With such messages, we force people from Serbia, and quite differently we should do exactly the opposite, to motivate people. Not with optimism without cover, but with real, concrete things, even when we are not satisfied to the end, to invite them to work together with all of us, because if we don't all work together when we're satisfied, then when it'll be good if we raise our hands and play with wit – just stupid stay here. That's not the way it's supposed to be, and no one can think like that if we want to be okay today and tomorrow and anytime. These are the messages we need to send from this room. I'm going back to what we should do and end things with them. I'm going back to the fact that some things we should do and end with them when it comes to this practice of extending deadlines, ladies and gentlemen, I would now address students who will be given an additional chance after, I'm sure, the adoption of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, you students need to finish your studies and do not rely on the possibility of re-showing some flexibility through amendments to the law, ad hoc or systemically. You need to do it for a number of reasons, first because you certainly can. All of us here have received numerous e-mails with reasons that there are difficult living circumstances that have bothered many people to finish their studies. I believe in them completely, in every one of these stories I believe, but distinguished students, whenever you come to such thoughts remember how many thousands of generations of people in many generations have managed to complete studies, and surely, as difficult as these living circumstances may seem to you, you will be able to find one and at least one of whom were even harder, and yet managed to complete the studies. So message number one, don't be a ghost, believe in yourself, know that it is possible, as hard as it seems, it is possible... until the end of the studies themselves, you proved that it was possible. So it's just a matter of your faith in yourself and the work that you're going to invest to bring this to an end and formalize through a diploma at the very end. The second thing, you take it freely and as a certain kind of obligation, first your obligation to yourself. You know how important that is to you, you know how hard you're trying to do it, you fix it in the first place for yourself. The second thing, as hard as it may be, no matter how much abject it is that you do it for the people who love you, because of their families, because of people who are aware of how much you invest, and third because of the wider community. Whether you believe my word or not, Serbia needs you, in your splendor and luxury of your capacities. In all that you can learn, in all that you can master, in all that you can provide tomorrow. So, learn, create, work, formalize it through a degree, but also through knowledge. That's the most important thing, and then on that basis, you'll do it tomorrow. Build and create that way and be in it, I'm sure, uses for you personally, but also for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3666	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3667	Since I'm new to this, and I didn't know we were gonna talk about everything, it means school reform so we could stay for a few days. We're talking about five members here. So this isn't even the law. So, alterations and additions to something that's changed and complemented forever. And I don't understand the hypocrisy of many people here, because I'm not like that by nature. So, in the end, you all support something that I said in the opening statement and as a mystery story, you forgot exactly what I said at the beginning. I'm not telling everyone, of course, to some people who have found their discussions necessary to hold the letter to both the Ministry and the Government and everyone. It's just that the previous team of people realized that they didn't... The summer was a technical government, when we started getting e-mails, first I, later you, I also scolded them, said what they didn't learn. I said I finished my studies before the deadline and I was a great student. But when I faced not a small number, it was at first more than 200 people, representatives from SKONUS came later. I'm talking about the total human population, no groups, no groups. So when I saw that in the middle of the summer there was an unorganized story and that it was threatening some very big riots and accidents, I thought maybe I was invited not to be a flow water heater but to be someone who was as reasonable and responsible as parents and grandfathers, and not someone who was against students, on the contrary. I have an extremely good relationship with KONUS, and I think we're gonna keep doing that. We have a very good relationship in two months with all the players involved in education in Serbia. You can check it out. So when we realized it was probably 12. Thousands of people, I even said it myself, you made it up, you listed everything and everything that ever went to college and didn't have any intention of studying. So, without any further ado, that story was going on my side very strictly, professorly. When we're organized to see what the legal aspect of that story is, we come up with a story about possible damage. It is a pity that 4,500 of them began to apply the university late, that process for a double number of years, and they had an objective right to sue the state. Then the damage would be in the national field. That was the reason. There's no harm done on the other side, except for family, to the parents of the students if this isn't done. I said in the introduction that, of course, I also support the human dimension of that story, but first, we're talking about legal, because my job is to protect law and law, not to bring it. You make laws. So I respected the opinion of the Higher Education Council, not entering when chosen, who makes it, etc. So, I respect institutions like this home, such as the Council you've chosen, and you'll often agree that sometimes in the perception of citizens all these bodies, seductions and advices, Mr. Žarko knows that well, designed for the benefit of education, and that citizens experience it as part of education. Very often, we come across cross - minded opinions. It's my principle to cooperate and talk about it. I've talked to all the colleges, we've released a survey, we've used the time we have, we've made a very democratic bar from the point of view of the Ministry of Education. At the time, I have two assistants and one secretary of state. Otherwise, this ministry has 11 assistants and four secretary of state. So on that side, with small resources, we've endured a big story, organized ourselves, and set out on our way to find out all the possible opinions we need to know. Let me just read to you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs on 12.10 has agreed that this is really in the right and right way. Certain bodies The Republic Secretariat for Law, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Office for European Integration, the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, the Regional Secretariat for Higher Education and Scientific Research Action and the National Council for Higher Education. So, absolutely everyone we have to. It's too bad for the state, which even these old bolognas will continue to model as they were granted, someone even told them they weren't granted. Someone said we were doing damages they were granted, there's no harm done. They're keeping their status. The premises are already paid, so no one gets any compensation in that sense. I really don't see a single moment that anyone here has made a mistake. We have a situation in society that's been standing like this for years. I mentioned the sentence that we're going to change the law from preschool to high, and it's very transparent on my part, wherever I go. And what has to be done before we get to that category, but if for five members of something that you all agree with we need this much discussion, I'm afraid we'll never make reform laws, because that's a lot of work. I'll continue, because I've listened very carefully to everything that's been said. This is one of my impressions, if I may, I've allowed many other impressions. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) When it comes to Bologna points...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3668	Excuse me, Minister, a moment. Can I help you, Mr. Bozovic? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Don't worry. I'm here to worry. That's your attitude. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Can I do the Business? When you get to your turn, you know the drill itself. The Minister, when he's finished, you'll get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't understand what you want me to do, interrupt the minister to get a breach of the Rules of Procedure? It won't work. Gentlemen, you know the rules of the assembly. Go ahead, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3669	I'm sorry, I didn't mention anyone personally, I'm only talking about my impression, and since the subject was five members of the amendment and the addition of the high school law, so I was hearing about the overall reform of school and if I started answering all the questions I was being asked, it would take a very long time. If that's why you thought someone was insulting, I don't see any reason. I have answers to all the questions. So if someone is insulting, then I'm certainly not a flow water heater and anything I've heard here, but today I wouldn't be dealing with the issue of total reforms, related to the strategy, not just since 2012, but also those before and all that you have well-intentioned. You can look at at least part of the job on the Ministry of Education's website what's open for two months as an agenda, how many alliances have been made, what new bodies and configurations are being created, and you'd see that this ministry's intentions are very clear. You work transparently, you don't see who he is or what he's like. We have visited about 20 cities, not only southern Serbia, but we have visited a lot. When it comes to the development of all processes of dual education, not only through high school, but also through high school, it will be a book fair, learning and education, you will see the stands that we have already started and seriously started in this direction. So, to a lot of questions that only apply to the changes and additions of these five members, I think I've been able to answer. Time. I'm obliged to answer only during the time he's late. We found it in the legislation, but that's no excuse, that it was already in 2008 and 2013. The reason was to ask for an opinion on all relevant readers. That's why we asked for an emergency procedure. Since we went on a regular basis, so it's September 29th when we're told it's the official procedure. The beginning of the school year is the rule of September 1st, not exclusively, October, I apologize. Indeed, it would be inappropriate for us not to understand it and to put an end to teaching and to wait for today, and the day of the law is the next day applicable. So this was absolutely in the spirit of good intentions. And I apologize if I offended anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3670	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3671	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The dignity of the Assembly, a member of 107, has been injured for the simple reason that the minister came for the first time, that is true, to this house, but he cannot call MPs hypocrites. We cannot allow students to request students, the minister says there have been threats to various riots, which is not true. The minister can't say this isn't about the law, because you, as chairman, know very well that the law is on the agenda, not new, it's about changing and supplementing, but it is the law and there's nothing, Mr. Arsic, the minister lets us or won't let us. He is in the National Assembly, and he is obliged to answer our questions. We talked about a system that doesn't exist because of students, but it seems here that the rule of this government is that students exist to fund a bad system. That's the essence of which we haven't heard any answer. I ask you once again that the dignity of the National Assembly be not questioned. Each of the MPs is offended by the fact that for the reasons we spoke in the interest of students who were enrolled in Bologna or those old or graduates, Master's and doctoral studies we are called hypocrites. It simply can't do that, and this is the law and it is the point of the agenda – higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3672	I am obliged to answer to my colleague, Bozovic. Obviously, you and I weren't in the same room or we weren't in the same place, in time and space. The minister did not call anyone a hypocrite, but stated that some discussions were hypocritical. I don't know why you find yourself here and recognize yourself. Did he say it was not the law – it is true, the minister said that this was essentially not the law but the amendment and the addition of the law. I don't even see what's offensive about it. Col. Jerkov, as I explain to the Rules of Procedure whether the Rules of Procedure were broken or not, and no one was afraid of any unrest, but said he had spoken to all relevant factors, the factors in this procedure. I don't understand what your problem is. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3673	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 116. The Minister, as well as the other participants in the discussion, as well as the MPs, shall be subject to certain rules of conduct in this Assembly. I don't know where the minister thought he came from, if he's on one of the sessions where the Prime Minister insults the ministers, and he thinks he can insult the MPs, but your obligation, Mr. Arsic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3674	You know, colleague Jerkov, that the prime minister insults the ministers? You were there?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3675	Mr. Arsic, if you want, I can give you today's paper and you'll see as well as the others. The fact is that it can't be communicated anywhere, that the minister can't say here that he's wasting his time and that we're not going to pass reform laws, because he's surprised why we're talking so much about the laws we agree with, which has enough impertinence to call that they're not laws. We're talking about them because you haven't done anything in the last four years in the area of higher education. That's why we're talking about them. So we ask you all this, and if you come to the National Assembly, then you have to sit down, not allow, as you imagine, that you can allow us, but you have to sit down, answer our questions, and hope that we will support the bill with which you came here today and bear responsibility for the disastrous policy your predecessors have led. Please, Mr Arsic, do not allow the Minister to treat the Assembly in this way in the future, for in accordance with Article 116, you have available ways to court the minister if he cannot behave himself in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3676	My colleague Jerkov, a member of 116, has not been broken. As were the discussions, so was the minister's answer. If you expected it to be different, it's hardly possible. I fully agree with you that the minister and all the other participants in the debate should talk about the subject, that MPs can only ask questions about the law which is the topic of the agenda, and not every question, what do they have in mind. That's why we have the Rules of Procedure. That's why there are certain rules of play in this Rules of Procedure, so I don't see what these questions are about the law on amendments and amendments to the laws laid down by the Minister. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Can't you see? I want the Assembly to declare itself in voting day. () Of course, the congregation will declare itself. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3677	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, do not cry, Article 103, paragraph 8, which says, in the case of the position of the 7th member of the National Assembly, it is necessary that the time used by the MP using the right of the position of the 1st member be taken away from the total time of that parliamentary group. Since they haven't used the time, I suggest you, given that both violations of the Rules of Procedure were in fact replicas, that you use the right, Mr. Chairman, and that you don't violate the Rules of Procedure, that you take away the time they used here. I believe neither the citizens nor we will lose much because there's nothing to hear from that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3678	Mr. Risticevic, I have no idea how to do this because all the headlines in the paper will immediately take place, because the newspapers are the ones who carry what we do, how the dictatorial regime of Alexander Vukic is taking away DS and its parliamentary group of time foreseen for discussion. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3679	It's very difficult to have only five minutes for such an important topic, and in the atmosphere that's created, we'll agree with Mr. Secretary's inappropriate behaviour. I know it's the first time that I'm ready and I'm ready to forgive, but it's time for the minister to apologize for being inappropriate. The MPs can also make mistakes, and they can insult you if they are allowed by the chairman, but if they do, then it is his fault again, but this is really one important topic and I, Minister, invite you to apologize to my colleagues at the end of today's debate, and we will forgive you, too, because it is the first time in the assembly. You did not answer the questions asked by colleague Jasminka Nikolic, which is – why is this law late? Justification – Technical Government, year. Your government is the government of continuity. Your associates are probably there who knows when, which is good. If they didn't, then you have someone who's stayed from who knows since when so should have warned you when you were chosen to have a problem. Whether it's 200 students or 12,000 students, it's a completely irrelevant thing. It's a matter of system. Secondly, it could not have been increased by the number of those students, but only to be reduced from the last change of deadline. The delay has no justification and I ask you to find a constitutional form that, since we all agree that it should be made possible for students, we all agree on it, I don't think there's any doubt about it, but let's make a law that has both a head and a tail and that's constitutionally clean. I've given two amendments. One is practically the general one that everyone has given, to enable graduates the same thing that is allowed by the students of the bill, I think we agree on that, and another one that seems to me to be a matter of detailing what high school institutions should do, is one semantic thing, whether they should write on their own or not, since two definitions are what an independent higher education institution is, and what is not, but we'll talk about it when the amendments come up. Generally, all the colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and colleagues talked about the general topics in the field of education and it wasn't just this side doing it, and the former minister devoted 15 minutes to it, which is justified, and a colleague from across the street and it's a perfectly normal thing. It's a principle debate, and it doesn't have to piss you off. On the contrary, it should be one lacmus, to feel how the congregation's majority, minorities, individuals, groups, what they think of some suggestions. For example, two things to me, for as long as I have, are very interesting. First, a proposal for parents to grade teachers. I think it's the wrong thing to do. They're not competent. Most of them are not competent, but I suggest you replace it by the fact that parents evaluate the work of school principals, because the school director organizes work at school, should deal with the quality of teaching, along with inspections and with everyone else and the organisation of school work. So let's get some parent advice or some other institution involved in the evaluation of the director, and then that'll make the director keep his employees, teachers, above all, so that their work is satisfied with both students and parents. The other thing is the ranking of our universities on that world list, which is a very good thing. I congratulate the University of Belgrade on 250 and some place, with it not much for students who are enrolled in Serbia's universities. I think it would be much more important and much more useful to make a ranking list of Serbian universities, and universities and universities, to see which is the best law school, not because this one or that one finished it, but because we're going to get some real parameters to who's best, and that these others get the stimulants to be better, so they compete. That's the same thing for electrics, same thing for philosophicals, anything possible. Let's make an effort, and I think it would be a good way to end hypocrisy in higher education, who has all over society, to eliminate the clans that are all around society, not from this government, to be clear, just sometimes more dangerous, sometimes less dangerous, but I think that competence is real, on real parameters, something that we need in education, and especially in the sphere of higher education. Finally, academic integrity must be incorporated into the next proposal for a law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3680	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3681	I apologize for staying short for the answer. So, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee agreed on 12th of this month that this is a regular procedure and is under the Constitution. So, just, I can't think of any other cleverer answer than this. I really knew the answer to all the questions that you asked and I don't mind, I just don't think it's time to start a story, and we're gonna come here to this house with huge changes to the law. We're making preparations. To do that, don't always, Zivkovic, think everything the press wrote was exactly what I said. There's a part when they pull it out and make it a whole story, and you know it better than I do, you're more experienced. So, from a floscule where parents are mentioned to be involved in the school's external evaluation process, it has been in Serbia for three years. So she doesn't judge a single host of biology teachers. There is this pedagogical evaluation of teachers' styles, where a number of parents are evaluated and valued by the sample, ranging from one to four. So it's not doing democratically well, because it's not working with all the parents. What you said about the director, you're absolutely right. I'm in all 20 cities saying what you're telling me here, believe me. I'm telling you, we need to fix the system, so we're making new configurations, parenting advice that from every school, through the municipality, will reach the ministry at full capacity, unicef joins it, we're making parent clubs. When it comes to bad relationships in schools, there's a lot of them. I've been doing it for 37 years, I know it all perfectly, and I know all the lessons and we're leading along with the union, and my colleague probably knows it, and the Union and everyone else, we have an alliance with Conus, so, with no group in education, we've made bad relationships, but I can say that I've found them, that they've all been fighting, that they've been ignored. The law on textbooks is passed, and no publishers, no parents. The law on higher education is passed, and there are no students. So anyway, at least this time while I'm at the head of the ministry, everyone will be involved in these processes and they're intensely going on. I don't have a problem apologizing if I've gone too far, I'm primarily a dynamic and impulsive person, but I don't think I'm rude either. On the other hand, I didn't throw myself at anyone personally, and I don't think it's necessary. I've focused on these five members. We also have an assistant for higher education here. We're making more changes, and we've been writing down everything you're saying. Indeed, we are not one to ignore it and think it is useless, on the contrary, but indeed I have received many pucks here, so now whom I say, let me say the same thing. It really doesn't say that I was someone who was flowing, people, so I organized everything. Ask the students. Don't let it be that I've been honoring you now, and the whole problem has been solved by us having a lawsuit, they've hired a lawyer. They proved to the ministry's legal service that they were right, 4,500 of them. The answer to the question of how many came to an end, 90% of them are graduates. So you can really get a chance to bring them here or you can invite them to come and hear it from them. So this is a long-term state. My revolt is one agony why it's going on like that. That's what I'm supposed to ask myself and you, but certainly, if I'm the Minister of Education by next time, this won't be. Take my word for it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3682	Based on what, Mr. Zivkovic? What did he say about you bad? He gave answers to your questions, don't, colleague Zivkovic, please. (Jasmina Nikolic, from town: Replica. ) Mrs. Nikolic, on what basis? (Jasmina Nikolic, from the post: Ambassador Zivkovic mentioned me. You made a deal, didn't you? First colleague Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3683	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I hope to relieve the discussion. So it's not Jasminka Nikolic, it's Jasmina Nikolic, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3684	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we farmers made this country, at least we had it renovated in the 19th century, brought the first democratic constitution, but just now my fellow farmer spoke in an attempt, they don't count, and talked about hypocrisy. What's a hypocrite? Is hypocrisy when my fellow farmer and his intellectual servant in the past congregate about academic honesty, the rule of knowledge, most likely the one from Plato's state, and then when they put together a list, my fellow farmer in an attempt is 10th place, and the doctor of science is 35th? What more evidence of the hypocrites we've heard so much about? I will support this law because not everyone as my fellow farmer can quickly scratch for someone higher in vain in Prilep or I don't know where. That's why I'm giving students a chance to finish it regularly. We have had here, yet we have learned something from our fellow farmers, and this is Nusic's, knowledge has limits, ignorance. My fellow farmer just showed it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3686	The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3687	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, is one of the basic human rights of education and is a driving force for empowering children, but also adults, to shape their own future, so the JS Parliamentary Group will certainly support the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education. The proposed changes concern a large number of young people, according to some estimates about 12,000, since there is no accurate data, i.e. students who have enrolled studies prior to the introduction of Bologna in 2005, who have not passed all the exams so far. The extension of the study has been extended twice in front of the patients. It was first academic in 2011-2012 and was extended to 2013-2014 and then to the current deadline, September 2016. By adopting the proposed amendments to the law, students would get another chance, or two more years to dipolate. It is very important to stress that the Assembly Committee discussed, discussed, discussed and that there is an initiative to submit an amendment that would extend the deadline and students of master and doctoral studies for two years, and today we could hear from many parliamentary groups that would send the same amendment, which is certainly good, because the law must have the same relationship with all students. From your presentation today, Mr. Minister, we heard that more than 65% of the university supported the bill's proposal, as well as the Student Association. I think it is necessary to extend the deadline for students who started their studies in the old system, because they did not have a legal limit, limited time for which they should graduate, and the state certainly would not be at a loss, because all students pay for passing exams, tuition and all other obligations. The only additional obligation is to have an administration, i.e. teachers, who test for them as old as they are, and not according to the Bologna programme. Since Serbia has a small percentage of higher education and the country's strategy to increase the number of citizens with a university degree, it is in favour of allowing old students to study the area and enable one of the important supporters in life. Many are inclined to declare the higher students lazy, jargonically put. There are different fates among them. Many of them have studied and worked parallelly, so they have little time left to prepare for demanding exams, some have founded families, many lives have marked family tragedies, some have stopped for three or four exams until the end, usually on cases where rare students pass through and among the most demanding professors, and from today's discussion of colleagues Vojislav Vujic, we were able to hear about the example of the Faculty of Geographical Sciences, where, due to one professor, a whole generation of students are being held back. I don't think this college is lonely and this kind of problem needs to be approached systemically and solved, so we don't create so-called. Close throats at colleges. These students don't bother anyone. All I see with them is perseverance and desire to keep in touch with colleges and knowledge. This tenacity does not cost society, but only absorbs certain energy that could focus on other socially undesirable activities. Preparing for today's discussion, I came up with the fact that the average length of study in Serbia is about eight years. I believe that young people should have support in society and better conditions for the development of their potentials, above all on the plan of formal and informal education. I may be leaving the topic for a moment, but I want to give good examples of care for young people and students who started their studies in Jagodina and who each year about the cost of local self-government have the opportunity to visit the University of Vienna and exchange their experiences with colleagues. Several thousand students have so far had the opportunity to visit Vienna, which is certainly commendable. The city from which I come, Kraljevo, has a college of construction and engineering, and two years ago, a higher Business School is open and is enrolled every year by 100 new students, 50 of whom are on the budget and it is possible for young people who do not have financial opportunities to study in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, to stay in the Kingdom to school and perfect themselves. Otherwise, out of 100 students who leave for Belgrade from the Kings, only three come back. The second amendment to the Law refers to the conditions for enrollment in the next school year on budget spending, to remain 48 points, which is correct, given that only 10% of students manage to meet the legal requirements and collect all 60 points. Unreserved support for all who wish to study and study, for a man learns while he is alive, and in the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group's voting day he will certainly support the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3688	Thank you. The People's Messenger Djordje Vukadinovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vera Paunovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3689	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the chairman, I would like to say that, at least by my impression, with a few exceptions and turns out, this today looked like, or at least in my gut, something that should look like a debate in the National Assembly. Perhaps because most agree on the proposal, perhaps because there were not some hot political issues much, or perhaps willful, energy for large polemics and entertainment, collecting political points. I think all the debaters were constructive, including objections. In that sense, I would also like to commend Mr. Minister for his brief opening statement. However, it is possible that he was in this sense too ambitious and over-expeditative, and then perhaps he did not respond best to the completely relevant remarks of MPs, who have an obligation, or at least the right, to see this matter differently and, of course, to express their political position, and to speak about the problem of higher education in general, in the context of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. In that sense, I believe it was an unintentional reaction, but there were colleagues who were right when they resented it. But that's why we have to be honest, too, so let's say that the general Mr. Minister didn't use and didn't abuse his position to speak after every exhibitor, after every exhibitor, and then use the commercial rights that some others did, he didn't write that Rules of Procedure, and even this congregation majority, that he abused it, and then he said endlessly, and that he eventually turned it into his own kind of show. So, a serious job, a job that might have been avoided, but I believe this bill is a palitarian one, obviously, is a natural measure, a retroactive measure, but the measure that we all think should be passed. My colleagues and I will support this, but you also need to take seriously the warnings, the well-intentioned warnings from various sides of this room and to take note of these other objections that concern not only these few members, because then we could finish the story in five minutes. I'm not going to abuse this pay phone for some long or political tyranny and political points, but I would take the opportunity to introduce you to the results. Many here are facts and important and worrying data spoken by many colleagues. We have to keep that information in mind. But there is one that I would simply contribute to you and other colleagues, and it is about researching one question in the research of public opinion, which I and my colleagues often ask and which is not usually in the focus of public interest because, of course, the public as a public, and the media, especially the political public, are just interested in ratings, who is growing, who is falling, who is the percentage of popularity and the rest. So there's one question that we put there, more to relax and to test and gain trust in respondents, which is, would you encourage your child to move out of the country if it had a chance? We have been asking this question for several years, regardless of what is the central theme and focus of research. I would now introduce you to the results, to some figures from that and ask you to take them seriously and to do, in the framework of your jurisdiction and your future work in the ministry, not just you and your ministry, but all of us here in the O.R., and those in the government, that this thing, as far as possible, change and repair. In April 2015, to that question – Would you encourage your child to move out of the country if it had a chance – 60.6% of citizens said yes and 28.8% said no. So, practically, almost two-thirds or a little less than that. In June 2015, 63% higher, so 3% higher, said it would encourage their child to move out of the country if it had a chance. In October 2015, 64% said it would support and encourage their child to move out of the country if it had a chance. Finally, in September 2016, therefore, this year in September 64.8%, meaning 65% of citizens, respondents said it would do so. Moreover, at least one third of it corresponds in style – what I encouraged, I have already encouraged him, he is already there or I am packing him there or he is about to go. These are, dear colleagues, serious, worrying data, regardless of who's sitting in which part of this room. I don't think it's a responsibility for any ministry or government, but it's also devastating to close your eyes in front of that fact. Look, there's not a lot of people who really want to be texted to kids and grandkids on Skype and on a cell phone to hear or see each other. So, the pain is great, whether it's about younger or older people, who say to encourage, support their child to go and leave the country. There were beautiful calls and examples that we heard, cited examples from the past, of young, smart people leaving Serbia and returning and improving and making progress in Serbia. But this, dear colleagues, is another case. This is the case that they leave and don't come back. They're not being sent by the state, they're leaving alone because they're unhappy and they don't believe they'll be lucky within this country. In that sense, only at the end of my time, which I don't want to spend, or abuse, would I ask a few very specific questions, and you answer what you think makes sense and that it is within your jurisdiction. It's all within your jurisdiction, but it may concern not directly this law. One thing, of course, concerns the University of Pristina, i.e. Pristina University of Kosovo-based Mitrovica. What's the status of that university? Is it justified to worry about some co-workers and teachers of that university, or university, that they might become victims or fall victim to a change or these negotiations being held in Brussels? A team before there was an initiative on the so-called An integrated university to make the one in Kosovo Mitrovica, which is, of course, an idea that makes sense, but bad and suspicious would be to start with right from the Pristina University and from Kosovo Mitrovica. My colleagues are concerned and should simply be seen. The initiative was launched at one point, it was initiated by some government institutions, so I would like to hear the answer to that question. The second question is also very short. Do you think and how you think to fix the quality, or even the quality of studies in Serbia, and we all know that it is very uneven, and especially this system of this ESPB system of points that is extremely, extremely unequal, extremely volunteering from college to college, and even within the same colleges, from department to department, from cathedral to cathedral, it's completely charred, and it's done very well, it's based on the interest or weight of individual teachers when it's made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3690	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3691	The last question, only very briefly - do you think and how do you think within your jurisdiction to correct the humiliating position of education and educational workers in Serbia? Can you expect that from the next budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3692	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3693	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, which the Government has sent us, is similar to some earlier proposals, or solutions that we have adopted in this National Assembly. The application of the law in practice has shown its positives when it comes to creating a more flexible system of education at higher education institutions and opportunities for greater academic mobility of students. But on the other hand, it failed to address the key efficiency problem, i.e. duration of study length. That is why the Resolute Ministry and the Government have sent us a proposal to amend certain provisions of this law. One such provision is certainly the one in Article 88 of the Law, which provides for the obligation of students to make a maximum of 60 points in the school year if they want to be on the budget, that is to say, in one school year they have to pass all the exams foreseen by the curriculum and the study programme. I do not want to enter into an analysis of the reason why only a certain number of students manage to meet this requirement in our higher education institutions, whether it is because of the vastness of matter or the fact that it is about young people who want to enjoy their age, and besides studies, they have other life desires, problems and interests. What's a fact is that even though all the transitional periods for the application of this law have long passed, we are still constantly moving this deadline for full application of the law for a year or two days into the future. I believe that such a practice is not good and that it devises the essence of the legal text. Therefore, although the PUPS parliamentary group will support this bill, I am of the opinion that one of two things should finally be done - or that in this Assembly, the resolution ministry finally takes a firm stand at the end of the next two years that it will no longer allow any extensions of these qualifications as a budgetary student, or that the basic text of the law changes Article 88 and permanently reduces the number of points and exams required for budgetary enrolment. The second amendment proposed by this law is the one relating to the so-called the senior students who entered colleges before 2005, i.e. before the entry into force of the now applicable Higher Education Act. They represent a different category of students and work on old curricula and programs. There are different reasons why they have made their studies so difficult. Each one of them has its own life story, and I believe that they may have been slightly and unwarrantedly yelled in public. I don't think they bother anyone, and they don't endanger anyone by continuing their studies in the old programs, and they don't even need to set deadlines for the end of their studies, so they're not a burden on the state budget, because they don't or can't have almost any demands towards colleges or institutions of the student standard. Students and students in such a situation must understand for themselves that the more effective they are in the study process, the more likely it will be for them to get a job and that the withdrawal of studies for justified or unwarranted reasons in the end line can only harm them personally. Although there was controversy in the public, and as I see that this solution did not become part of the bill, I believe it should be supported for the adoption of amendments extending the deadline for completing studies for students of old master's studies and for PhDs. In contrast to their colleagues from basic studies, they are largely out of objective and justified living circumstances, marriage, children, employment, extended their studies, making their thesis and for them must have more understanding, with the process of producing scientific works in a number of natural, and increasingly and social sciences, very complex and require observation and continuous monitoring of different processes and phenomena that can often last for many years, so it would be a shame for research and scientific papers to fail only because of a certain time period. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group in voting day will support the adoption of this legislative proposal and thus allow the misunderstandings and misunderstandings that exist in this area to be overcome, but we believe that the application of the whole law should be analysed in practice and in due course access to its more fundamental work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3694	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3695	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, data that about 10,000 students are interested, and that several thousand through petitions have asked to extend the deadline for completion of the study, suggests that their request should be answered. The proposal to amend the Law, i.e. the Law on Higher Education, extends that deadline by the end of 2017, 2018, in fact until the end of school 2017, 2018 and should be adopted because it is in the interests of students and states. In this way, students will avoid additional costs, as they would probably have to pay their enrolment again, to pay re-recognition of exams and to pass differential exams. I'm sure a number of students have justifiably been prevented from graduating within a reasonable time, but I think that's exactly why they should be given a second chance. Also, I think the extension of the deadline for the completion of the basic studies is mostly due to those students who led the study process to the very end. For those students who have not moved away from the second or third year of college this extension will not mean anything, or they will have no concrete interest in it. The proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education in a work that would allow students studying according to the Bologna model to be able to finance from the budget if they have reached at least 48 points in the previous school year. Indeed, there are few students who make 60 points during one school year. That's about 10%. If we compare this to studying before the introduction of Bologna, or the old programme, we will see that there were also a small number of students who cleaned the year, as students have popularly said, or passed everything from the previous year and entered the following to finance from the budget. That's one problem that apparently dates back many years. It needs to be analysed and one long-term solution needs to be found. I believe our higher education is of quality, but this is a problem we're going to have to face in some future period. Also, I think that maybe the failure was made a few years ago when colleges simply adopted a Bologna model of study without having a single period of adaptation to adapt to such a model. Dear colleagues, investing in people, investing in education is the best long-term investment. We must not forget that this is exactly the kind of people, educated people, are the driving force of a society. If we can already influence someone's future, I suggest we influence positively and enable these students to bring their education to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3696	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic has the word, and let MP Zarko Bogatinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3697	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on Higher Education, specifically the amendments and additions made to this law in 2005. Meanwhile, there were more amendments and additions to this law, and a lot of these changes were actually related to the extension of study deadlines. One of the points and members that are amended by this law speaks of extending the time limit for the completion of basic studies and this article is treated with the rights of students studying under the old programme, so-called "Students". the Bologna programme and this proposal should extend that deadline by two years. The reasons for extending the deadlines as well as the reasons for extending the right of students to finance the budget, as well as for the number of points to receive the right to budgetary funding, which is also treated by this law, is that the largest number of students, pre-bolons are graduates or are in the final phase of study. It would certainly take two years for most of these students to complete their studies. Of course, not the adoption of this proposed law produces many problems, and these problems are, above all, a problem of equivalence, they would have to make a programming difference that is viewed as taking differential exams, and yet on the other hand, it would make many students go back to previous years of study. Then, not the adoption of this law, or the transfer of them to the Bologna process, would cause a problem with the need to meet certain pre-examination obligations, and many students had already left the university centres, but were already in other cities, founded families or established working relationships, etc. There are also the costs of administrative processing and equivalence and they would be too high, and students would remain in self-financing status, without the conditions for the use of housing in homes and the use of food benefits. A number of colleges still have no defined models of switching to teaching models in the Bologna process, so there's also a big problem. Furthermore, not all schools under the Bologna programme started teaching at the same time. Usually the initial year for the Bologna process, i.e. for inclusion in the Bologna course, was 2006. However, there are colleges that started in 2007 and even in 2008 and 2009. These students, who have not finished, are in the worst situation today, in the worst position. We believe that this extension of deadlines and these changes and additions will certainly make the maximum number of students complete their studies over the next two years. Several times this has been moved, but it can be said that this shift of conditions, extension, giving the benefits of studying according to the old programme should not and cannot go indefinitely. These amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act also allow for greater coverage of students for the use of budgets, which means that the budget achieves its social function when it comes to providing benefits to students. I will remind you, around 28,000 students are financed from the budget today, of which at the basic studies of 16,000, there are approximately 5,700 students in the doctoral studies of 775 students. I will not be resented, but I will also say that and I will remind you that with the budget financing of masters and doctoral studies has been initiated during Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic in 2009 and 2010. Then a free textbook program was started, with which to continue anyway. These changes and additions do not cover the rights, conditions and rules of study of doctoral studies. We believe, as a parliamentary group of SPS, that it should be put into this law as well. We have submitted an amendment that regulates this issue. Of course, others did. We do not have a problem with whether our amendment will be accepted or amended by another parliamentary group, it is already important that this issue and this coverage be made for these students. There are also many reasons, because most often there are a number of students, so to speak, posting a diplomat before the end of his doctoral dissertation, or they've already finished it, and indeed, within a short time, they could end it. Of course, otherwise there's a lot of things going down, a lot of money, a lot of effort and effort, a time wasted, etc., because it all cost research, reporting on the doctor's thesis, and an evaluation by a commission that assesses it, etc. So we think that's really necessary. Also, we think that if someone thought that this exemption from doctoral studies would prevent inflation from gaining academic titles that it's certainly not a mechanism that can prevent it or the right solution, but rather other mechanisms that need to regulate the issue. Finally, I will mention another category of students, which are the first Bolognas to enter 2006, 2007 and 2008 and which are now subject to re-scribing, and this re-scribing is the acquisition of a new index, requires a lot of money and great costs. So we couldn't submit an amendment to Article 94 that regulates this issue, because the subject of the submitted bill that we're dealing with today is not that Article 91. So, the cost of re-entry is charged, the release of a new index, the re-unification produces different rights at different universities so that it applies to the Faculty of Law in Belgrade for two years, for an economic eight years. The cost of re-entry differs from college to college. We believe, Mr. Minister, that if this has not already been settled by law, and finally these students can continue their studies by re-entering, then, in the right sense, you can not pull the parallel between these old students and these bolognas, but in any case you should pay attention to the great costs that colleges prescribe for re-entry. If it could be reduced, to illustrate today's material situation of students, I think they would be pleased. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly vote for this law and for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3698	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word has the People's MP Zarko Bogatinović, let the folk letter Dr Diana Vukomanovic be prepared. MP Zarko Bogatinovic is not present. The word has a folk letter from Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, so let the National Parliament of Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3699	I thank the chairman. I am pleased to join the general consensus that we will support the proposed additions and amendments to the Law on Higher Education and I am simply inspired by the initial sentence of Mr. Minister Sarčević, who said he had carried out a wide range of consultations and that these are all life stories, human stories. It inspired me to remember the Latin proverbs that Senek allegedly said, which he said, "We are not studying for school, but for life," and what life in Serbia today says about student life, because I think we are all here because of students, because they are the future, they are youth. If we look into the past now, we will remember that in the former Yugoslavia basic compulsory education was introduced 65 years ago in 1951, and now it is the situation, the minister will of course correct me, he knows better than I do, that we have about one third of the population that has primary education, about one half of the population that has secondary education. According to data, about 6% or every 18 people have higher schools, and higher education is about 10%. We know what our goal is under the Education Strategy, we know that we are entering Europe, that it is at this time that Serbia is ready to open Chapters 25 and 26. The screening reports said that 46% of high school students enrolled in higher education. We've all been passing out the data that the students gave us, because they're the ones who are interested in having that diploma in their hands. It's just that it'll make their jobs easier, and we know what the problem is with young people. I'm glad we're not just thinking about students of basic studies, but about those who have enrolled in master and who are already in doctoral studies. So this country invests huge money for student education. Today, the media is mathed that doctors whose education is being invested in are leaving the country for up to 12 years, so that we lose almost two generations of those enrolled, if the quota at the medical school is 500 people. They are looking for certificates of good practice so they can be employed abroad. Kolega Miletic Mihajlović and some other colleagues mentioned the data we received from the students, to complain about the difficulties of reunification, equivalence. We didn't talk about how expensive student loans we are where the holders of these loans or the parents or the students themselves are, that these are loans where interest rates are from 10% to 30%, the repayment deadline is seven years. So these are all some strategies for finding young people who want to stay in the country, who want to become not only academic citizens, but who want to work and to practice. My encouragement to the minister with his associates and that the more he consults student organisations and students, the more he goes among them. I'm pleased to find that it's V.D. the assistant minister on the Education Committee has already stated that it is formed or will be formed, if I understand correctly, a working group of 12 students who will also be involved in the process of consulting the design of a new law on higher education. Some colleagues have put emphasis on the academic community, and I dare put an emphasis on students. You have a great rich and life and work experience from working with children, with students and should never be afraid of them. They need to be most consulted. I watched the Action Plan and here are the criteria you will see in the process by 2020. I'd also like to put an emphasis on the so-called problem. “car pack” or “recipients” from those who enroll and give up their studies during the first year. If I understand correctly, you will give a report in February 2017 on the evaluation of the number of students who have 60 points. The Assistant Minister's duties have led to the fact that these famous 60 European portable points, in fact, only 10% of students, meet that condition and therefore still survives the 48% criterion, but this evaluation will show. I wish you success.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3700	The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3701	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education is important, as its adoption removes the current problems of students related to the deadlines of completion of the studies following the programmes. We heard, it's about students who enrolled in 2006, so students who have not graduated for a variety of reasons so far. Why are we talking about students enrolled before 2006? Because since 2006, a new Higher Education Act which was adopted in 2005 has been in place, which marked the essential changes, i.e. the introduction of a new high education model in Serbia, in line with the Bologna Declaration. Today is an opportunity to remind ourselves that the Bologna Declaration was signed by the European Education Ministers in 1999, with the ultimate goal of establishing a single, European area of higher education. The Bologna process has accepted 48 countries as a basis for establishing a single system of higher education, as a space that will provide easier and greater mobility for students, and after completion of studies and easier employment of professional staff in a unique Bologna space. Of course, the goal was also a new higher level of education in the acquisition of selected professional qualifications. All of these were reasons why Serbia also accepted this new model of higher education. For us, the additional motive was also the fact that we apply for membership in the European Union, and in this sense we want, and we also have an obligation, to comply with European standards, domestic laws in all areas, and also in the area of higher education. Of course, the new law, which marked a new model of higher education in Serbia, also envisioned a deadline for completing studies under the start-up programmes for all students who had enrolled before 2006. After that, it's twice as long. The last time in 2014 was extended for two years for these students who received this additional deadline to finish their colleges after the started programmes. At that time, it was estimated that such students in Serbia were around 24,000. Also, it is now estimated that in the past two years half of this number of students have managed to complete their studies and gain the titles of academic titles. However, more accurate assessments still take time, given that the deadline previously established was only recently, therefore, more specifically on 30 September 2016. As a professor of the University and I am a witness that a large number of students from this group have defended their graduates just the last days of September of the month, and just before the legal deadline was laid down. All in all, it is not a negligible number of students under the old program who are now interested in a new additional deadline. In that sense, we here in parliament today are considering this new additional legal deadline, which will give all these students a chance to complete their studies after the programmes have been started. In that sense, I think that to commend the government's proposal and the ministry's resolution to establish another additional deadline, and that this is a major concession for our students on the part of the Government and the Resoring Ministry. What I would like to point out in particular, and to point out, it is also a great support of the university, more than 60% of the colleges supported the proposal of these students, supported the bill that we are talking about here in the Assembly today. It is also to highlight and certainly respect, because colleges in this way assume a significant responsibility to provide additional conditions in terms of organisational, technical, if we want material resources to end this new law and that all of our students who have failed to complete their studies in this additional period now end exactly according to the programs according to which colleges have also enrolled. I point out this especially because, I can also say, I am often in a position to hear, and also to see, that our colleges, most of them already realize a large number of student programs under the applicable law and are often faced with a number of problems to maintain a high level of teaching, a high level of study, a high quality to fully comply with all that the applicable law has prescribed. For this reason, I am convinced that our students, whom we all are all committed to today, will also be further motivated to get an extension of the deadline for completing the studies under the programmes, that they will be able to make additional prices and that they will conclude with school 2017/2018 in the next two years. in the year 2018/2019, respectively. In the year, if it is about students of integrated studies in the field of medicine, to manage to finish colleges by starting programs and gain titles, i.e. to get adequate academic titles. The bill that I support is that, in this school year, the censorship for funding from the RS budget is 48 ESPB points. In this way, the government and the resolution ministry also accept that they finance a significantly higher number of students who have enrolled in basic studies. This is certainly commendable because it means significant relief, a significant benefit for the budgets of parents who are schooling their children today in colleges. What I would still like to point out, what we're talking about today, and what's also to praise for us people's MPs, that we're at least on this point simply agreeing, there's no reasoning, and that's that we're all somehow for the law to be complemented by an additional deadline and for students after graduation studies. I think that's a good idea. An authorised representative of the SPS spoke about it today, Mr. Professor. Zarko Obradovic. As a parliamentary group, we fully support this proposal. We've made an amendment. We believe that we will come to an understanding and that the Resort Ministry will accept that an additional deadline will be established for students after graduation studies to defend their master's thesis and doctoral dissertation. This is not without reason for the simple reason that we know that after a graduate study they are demanding, that long duration, that those who have enrolled, or reported master's thesis and doctoral dissertation according to one programme, it is extremely important for them to follow the same programme and end the studies. Anything we'd do now in the sense that we'd guide them to enroll in doctoral studies, for a third year, or to renew the procedure for them would certainly be difficult. It is not easy to get a doctor's call today to any science to do, especially to point out that when it comes to science in the field, natural sciences, biotechnical sciences, medical sciences, because all of this depends on students' willingness, or after graduates to put forth great effort, great work to observe all those procedures that have been established through various laws and regulations. And with all this in these areas, you know that it's an extremely important experimental work that, let's say, when it comes to biotechnical sciences, it's been going on for years in the area of agriculture. In plant production, in the field of fruit production, experimental work lasts for three years in the field of warfare, in livestock farming there are minimal two repetitions, and after that everything that means the formation of doctoral dissertation, i.e. master's work. Since I see that I have made too long, I support the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Of course, they'll support the SPS. We expect the minister and his associates to accept the amendment and the graduates to receive an additional two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3702	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasha St. Jovanovic. Let MP Jahja Fehratovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3703	I must at first say that in Parliament today we seem to have one shift in this sense because I have heard some really constructive discussions by the opposition, while in the previous days really daily criticism without giving any solutions is what I despise most. Since the beginning of the session, we have also attended fashion shows and performances and then the shouting of individual MPs as if the Assembly's announcement was not working here, of course, and the departures of all parliamentary groups when they learn that TV transmission was interrupted from that point on, and all in order to show that the Assembly is slow and inefficient. Since the beginning of the assembly, we have indeed noticed that it serves to rally certain parties, especially those who have barely crossed the censorship. I hope that from now on, when he felt one shift, it won't happen again. I would quote Klaus Moor who says education is expensive, but ignorance is even more expensive. Today there has been a lot of discussion all in this direction that actually says that ignorance is a big problem and the big problem is that individuals with all marketing are promoted as great experts, without support in works. There's a lot of progress in knowledge when we know what we don't know. For many years, the progress of knowledge has not been allowed in many places, nor are young and ambitious experts allowed to hold on to one’s positions. Our task is to give everyone who wants to learn the possibility of progress, and young people to focus primarily on thinking, solving problems and entrepreneurship. There's been a lot of talk here about ranking the university. I really think that, especially the University of Belgrade, which was one of the great regional centres, we return that epithet. The proverb says - if we close our eyes, we won't send out the dark. Therefore, if we deny that we have problems, we will not begin to solve them. For this reason, a proposal for this law on the extensions of the Law on Higher Education has been put in place because this is very important because future educators, teachers and teachers all gain knowledge at higher education institutions. The more quality it becomes, by the way, and from the smallest legs and the further those educators, the more quality teachers will be in transfering knowledge to their students. The strategy talks a lot about it by 2020 and the SNS will not give up on its objectives. It's important to adopt a series of laws in the coming period, since we're talking a little bit wider here, not only specifically about these amendments to the law, but it's important to say that we need to adopt a series of laws that systematically regulate higher education and not just that, but to strengthen the control of their application. The laws can really be perfect, but if they don't apply, then that's the problem. I consider this amendment to the Law on Higher Education as one of the series necessary to repair the current state of higher education. So far, there have been largely some attempts at primary and secondary education, and when there has been a higher education, it has mostly lost its will, power, and now we've started really what's very important. I therefore advocate that students in basic studies, as well as graduates enrolled under the old plan and programme, mean before the Bologna programmes, to extend their term of completion to school 2017/2018, i.e. 2018/2019. A year. Many graduates who have reported the topic of doctoral studies really or are in the final stages of production. Moving to Bologna would mean one great process of equivalence of exams from Master's Studies and retrograde turning back, which we are all aware of and many times has been discussed today. To also point out once again that graduates, magistrates and doctors are already busy in some of the institutions of higher education, so many highlight the deadlines for calling assistants and if they do not continue schooling, they come to the point of being out of work. Of course, there are also causes and reasons why they study for so long and why they need so much time to bring their studies to an end. Investments in knowledge pay the best interest, Benjamin Franklin said. That's what I think our minister and the government know well. That's why, at the very beginning, great attention is devoted to it. I hope we'll discuss a lot, since I'm on the Education Committee, I'm very happy about what else needs to be changed. That's why I consider this a first step. I would like to personally thank the minister for coming to Mladenovac on a project that we have through the Republic Office for Public Investment Management at St. Sava Elementary School in 23 million, although the SNS has been in power in Mladenov since July, the project has seen its completion. Everyone was really happy and happy. Although there was the possibility that even the previous government had competed since 2014, but either had no will, desire or knowledge, but as you can see, the minister came to the conclusion of the works. Thank you very much on behalf of the Mladenovs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3704	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Let the People's Parliament be prepared, Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3705	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as the People's MP coming from the Educational System, I want to support amendments and additions to the law allowing pre-Bolonian students to complete their studies in the new time frame. Students are the most vital part of society. Many of them, along with their families, invested many material and immaterial resources to reach the academic title. The living conditions and the circumstances of the time in which we live in most of these students have made it impossible for them to complete their studies within the scheduled time limit. That's why they need a new chance. I also consider the same conditions important to offer to graduates and PhDs, especially because many of them have adapted their professional careers and life opportunities to scientific ventures in which they have invested years of effort and research. It is unfair for those people who need to become the driving force of society to prevent them from ending them according to the principles they accepted at the beginning of the process. We will, as a benefit for that bet, get competent experts who will repay this loan with knowledge and skills. However, the process of setting up the education system must not stand on these amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. Our education needs thorough measures, some would say reforms, and I will say we need to save the education system, i.e. we need a new law that will regulate all areas of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Let me add something to this claim about the educational system of the area I come from, which is probably facing the most difficult challenges in this country. It is about schools in the Sandzak cities, Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Prijepolje, Novi Varoša, Priboj and their abuse by politicians and politicians, criminal miles and the existence of grounds for corruption in pre-school education institutions, as well as in primary and secondary schools. In Novi Pazar, we have a situation where a person with a criminal record, without any acquired education, close to one politician, is blackmailing school principals, giving them orders to be hired, left without norm, and only according to two principles – belonging to the party and paying large amounts of money for employment. There is even a well-established professor’s, teacher, teacher, or educator’s place of work. The investigating authorities have some information on the corruption and criminal record of individual school directors who have come to those positions according to the party key. The abuse of students for political purposes, especially during the period of election cycles, has also been expressed, especially long-standing practice in Sjenica and Tutin. In order to force them to carry out these tasks, school administrations face blackmail and pressure from local authorities that, if they disobey these and similar requirements, do not transfer mandatory means of normal functioning, leading to a vicious cycle, bribery, corruption and any other crime in which victims are exclusively students and safe and honest educators who are under terrible pressure. It is therefore important that the state apparatus take the steps of setting up the educational system in the Sanjay municipalities as soon as possible, and especially the Ministry of Education to send competent inspection services to these municipalities to make sure that they are in a factual state according to whose report would have to make a plan for healing the educational system from which the influence of politics, bribery, corruption and any other occurrences that further threaten the fragile school system should be eradicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3706	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3707	Thank you. This is article 106, the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda, which is being searched. I'd like to ask if anyone can interpret, the speaker before me spoke for four or five minutes about the problem in elementary schools. This is the law on higher education. I mean, in one general sense, it is one area, but can the chairman warn MPs that they are strictly members of the law under investigation? I mean, I understand that the topic for everyone is what they're talking about, but the point of the agenda is the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3708	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3709	No, but I'd like to appeal to you to tell everyone that they're sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3710	Thank you. I agree with you to the rule should apply to everyone, but on the other hand, you said one important and significant area, the MP in one broad context looked at this area and the entire education system, used the presence of the minister and asked certain questions that I personally considered to be of particular importance and importance, and therefore I allowed him to do so. Thank you. We're moving on. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Ciric. Let the People's Messenger Ljubinko Rakonjac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3711	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Minister Sarcevic, the Socialist Movement Group of the People's Peasant Party, and the United Peasants' Party, will support the bill's amendment, as it is of full interest to students, as well as to increase the number of highly educated persons in the Republic of Serbia. These amendments to the law lay down new conditions when we talk about the number of SP points, and it is important to point out that the reduction of points does not affect the quality of studies, that there is no financial effect per budget, because as is the same number of students financed from the budget, whose number is determined exclusively by the government's decision. In order to improve education development activities, we have an extremely important Erasmus Mundus programme, which aims to improve and support the development of all educational levels and categories, to improve and support the development of all educational levels and categories. What I would especially like to praise is that 17m euros have been provided in higher education capacity building since 2014, and 16.3m euros for student mobility from Serbia. This is proof that we are trying to educate our children, our students, so that later they can return and apply that education exclusively in our country. Also of great importance and what I would really like to commend is the information system that is now included in higher education and which fully covers all the incomes that higher education institutions have that are exclusively their own and they are consolidated in the Budget Law, which is a really big thing that is now involved. It is important that we can see from this that indeed this government and this ministry are now engaged in one serious and responsible way of education as a key area for Serbia's further development. When we talk about amendments to the law on students who extend the deadline for completion of studies, we talk about their right to freedom to study and educate throughout life. It also represents no additional costs when we talk about funding from the budget, because they finance themselves from their own sources. Serbia needs highly educated personnel, and unless we would definitely accept this amendment to the law, we would in some way miss the maximum use of the funds we previously invested in those students who were probably on the budget, most of them. So, in this way, we would follow the manners of some previous authorities, but I really wouldn't be getting into that subject right now, because today we all finally agree on the subject of education. I would only like to take this opportunity to praise, I know it is not a topic, a secondary and elementary education, but it is definitely a great commendation that the town municipality of Voždovac has invested 150 million dinars in schools since the SNS and the Socialist Movement in the coalition in the municipality. Video surveillance was introduced in 16 elementary schools, with monitoring at the police central station, the physical activity of children was encouraged by building three large physical halls in Jajinci, Ripnja and Zuc, where there were no halls, the toilets that were previously spoken of as very important today, the courtyards were fenced, protective fences were set up. Which means that from the above, we can conclude that children have significantly better conditions which will definitely affect further their work, which will definitely affect better preconditions for enrolment of colleges, which we hope, in the next period, will be to say, some precondition that there is no longer this extension for students in the future. They are neither incompetent nor lazy, nor unintelligent, but simply the conditions in which they have been educated and the conditions in which we live in recent years have probably forced them to work during their studies, to take care of their families, and for this reason we simply cannot blame them and we need to give them the opportunity to continue their education. What is extremely important to us is that this Serbia as it has been so far is good, beautiful, ours, but we want to change it, we want it to be better, and I really think that this government and the Ministry and the new minister will have the opportunity to change it and I really think that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3712	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac, and let the People's Parliament of Olivera Ognjanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3713	The Honorable Chairman, Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I would first like to address the respected Minister Sarčević with a desire to address him for successful work on this job, because he is headed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, one of the most important ministries. I have no doubt that he will succeed in this work, because he really has a successful biography behind him and has good results, he will only need a good team of associates and then he will be guaranteed success. As the first proof of that, he made some decisions in a short time and managed to do a part of the work that hadn't been done in the last two years. As an example, I will give that the government has chosen a Council for Scientific and Technological Development, and that for the last two years, and there has been no reason not to end it so quickly, and indeed within a short time, the minister has done so easily. The SPS parliamentary group, as already said, will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act for reasons most of the debaters have said, I will only mention some. So, you should give these young people a chance to finish their studies, they've passed a lot of exams. A large number of these students remained only a little, someone just graduate work and simply needed to give them extra time to finish the job. It would be bad if we didn't adopt today's bill of law because many of these people would be demoted and many for material reasons couldn't complete the studies, and that would be bad for them, too, for the profession and for the country in general. So it is best for everyone, for them alone, for us, for the state of Serbia to adopt the proposed law. We have suggested, I think there are amendments, that this extension of the deadline for the start-up studies apply to both magistrates and PhDs. I think it's in the amendments. We will also support the adoption of this, especially for the reasons of the doctorate, because the doctoral dissertation represents a very serious scientific work and requires a really great time and great results, a great effort, a great number of analyses. It is often done with a time period that you can only get to the first results of some disciplines after five years. If that cycle and 10 years, if it requires two cycles of research, it's 10 years and it's really impossible to finish in a short time. Especially because it is now the number of magistrates who have failed to doctorate very little, and this does not constitute a great cost to the state, because they themselves finance doctoral studies, doctorates or companies in which they work. Dear Ministers, aside from these members of the law, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity today when you are here to give some ideas that may need to be considered in the next period, taught what I have in my previous practice of contact with the Ministry and working in the scientific and research organization to notice that some things might agree and improve, it is certainly not the result of the present situation, simply, it is a state of 50 years, that some things have not been solved. My idea is to consider the current status of the institute, the financing of the institute. Namely, the institutes are the only public institutions whose founder is the state, without having institutional funding, that they are on the classical market. So, they don't have the means, but on the market they manage to provide. Such a way of survival is unsustainable more, because indeed, funds for the work and functioning of institutes and scientific research should be constantly arriving, that it can be planned at least over a year with how much resources can be available. The current way of funding through projects is about half the funding needed for the institute's work. That's not enough. In addition to this, wages and earnings, it means 50% more of the other costs, it's scientific research, field research, various insurance and other necessary things to be done. Dear Minister, I would like to take this opportunity, too, to mention that the scientific community expects you to have the funds to be allocated from the scientific and research work budget bigger. They're really minimal right now. It's not the current state, it's just the state of the last 15 years. The only period when they were 1%, that's the period, I think, of Professor Unkovic, was later all smaller, and all the countries that want technologically is development and progress, must have a higher degree of separation for science. As we've heard...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3714	I apologize, Mr. Rakonjac, the time that belongs to the SPS parliamentary group is up, so please bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3715	Thank you very much. Here, I'm in the middle of it. So, if you could at least increase those funds in the next two years. It doesn't have to be 1% this year, but gradually increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3716	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3717	I'm sorry, I don't want to waste my time, but just to answer my colleague Rakonjts, what you've asked as a question has entered the procedure. We adopted it at the government as one of the two most important strategic developmental directions of our ministry, also at the World Bank. I hope it comes very soon to the Assembly. We're just working on that there's a combined model of funding science through an institutional model, as well as through projects, and that's really going to work, and evaluations, all of these processes just two years. A fellow science assistant is very involved, Mr. Tanic, and you will receive calls for co-operation these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3718	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3719	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers and assistants, as the agenda item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, I think it is necessary and necessary that we adopt this proposal as soon as possible for the reason that there is no progress on both business and social without personnel. Young highly educated people are of great importance to our country, which is also the attitude of the SNS. I therefore consider and advocate the urgent application of the proposal to supplement the Higher Education Act. Accordingly, I agree that students who first enrolled studies in 2013 on 2014 are also allowed after the course of the regular study period, i.e. entering the so-called "Students". The fifth year retains the right to finance from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as allowing older generations of students to complete their studies after the estimated maximum period of eight years. Although this is a step away from regular study, it is more important to create educated people and raise the level of education of our people. It is more important to create young people who will tomorrow, through their knowledge, culture and abilities, promote the expansion of European values in our country. The aim of the reforms launched is to have at least 35 to 38.5% of the 30-34-year-old population in the Republic of Serbia after 2020. It is precisely this addition to the Law on Higher Education that we will create more necessary personnel, and the addition of this law is also necessary in order to bring the Stabilisation and Association Agreement into line with the EU. The creation of a community that will give young people a chance and thus keep them in our country is something that the SNS stands for, something that we've been trying to accomplish for many years. That is why this addition of the law is just an additional incentive for students and in this way we allow them to exercise their right, which is the right to education. There is a kind of capital that is equally important as liquid or permanent capital. It's human capital. It's a constant investment in people, knowledge and science. This is the investment that will put us high on the scale in the international community. I believe that anyone who opposes this amendment to the law is directly against the students and is preventing our country's progress. So I ask you, do we really want a school where there will be no second chance, in which often innocent students will suffer the consequences of the various problems of life? Do we want frightened, mentally burdened young people, who only care about fulfilling the form of a normative system and will they be strong enough and strong enough to overcome all obstacles because they have no other chance? Knowledge and organisation are qualities that are particularly nurtured and cherished by the European community, which are needed by a modern state that does not want to make access to a higher education degree more difficult. We are familiar with the general provisions of the competition for enrolment of studies according to which higher education institutions determine the number of students financed from the budget that determines the Government by its decision on the number of students for enrolment in the first year of primary academic studies for universities and universities whose founder is the Republic for the current school year, i.e. within the total number of students approved in the permit for the work of a higher education institution. This bill provides us with information that we have enough resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance higher education institutions, valuable and working students who make 48 or more ESPB points. So I see no reason why any of the honourable fellow MPs would have any objection to the bill and I will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3720	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stanija Komirović, and let the MP Sonja Vlahovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3721	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, on the day we talk about the supplement, change the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005, and which in the meantime suffered many changes, changes, only because of the time in which we are, in the time that will come to us and has suffered in order to improve and adapt a certain complement to the goal of improving and the time we are going through today and the time that will take us for many years and periods to come before us. All changes so far have been in the interest of students, such as increasing the number of higher education institutions and people, in order to gain as much knowledge as possible that will be applied later on in their future work and life. The work of higher education institutions takes place through vocational and specialist studies and through education, and the system of education takes place and the system of points, where students are allowed today with 48 points, which is the addition of this law, to the desired enrolment at the next years of college, means that they continue their studies on the burden of the budget. In today's financial, economic situation in which we are in our young people, this allows them to reach their goals and reach the desired results in which they put forth a lot of effort, their work and effort. So our ministry and government are here to help students in all their abilities and spheres, when it is found in front of them and when it is required of them, which is a great commendation of our ministry. So, students in this situation are allowed to reach the desired goals and when they were often prevented from coming to these goals for many reasons, whether these are economic situations or the problems they are in, in which our society meets, and it has made it impossible for them. Our government and the ministry, I must point out and say, is there every moment to help our students in the area of KIM and thanks to our government headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, students and their way of life in the area of KIM take place in beautiful frameworks, in the framework of the modern way of study, where they are allowed to acquire much more knowledge in the frames of maybe the narrowed lifestyle, than they think and expect. That's why our institutions live in the KIMs. By gaining their knowledge, they gain the opportunity to defend their way of life where they are tomorrow, not only are they allowed a way of studying in the most modern conditions with a lot of good staff and professional training, but they are allowed all the conditions and other lifestyles that follow student life. So they're there to give it to them and to enable them in the best frames, to have our institutions and our people live there, and by gaining knowledge, we'll be able to defend ourselves against all the troubles that follow those spaces and our opportunities in the future. Apart from our state university, which normally went one difficult way, because after the war he could not settle in the KIM premises, but settled in many places in Serbia, he still decided to get our university's seat. Our University of Pristina gets its headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica. So, with Kosovo Mitrovica's temporary headquarters and it is possible for students, apart from the way they are studying, to have a nice and pleasant life in student homes, which must be commended. To our students it means a lot the number of points 48 and they come from different areas of KiM, so there are also those who come from difficult enclaves and environments, where it is very difficult to live, so there must be many more conditions about their way of studying and providing these opportunities. It is very important to point out that their life, although taking place in a limited area, is not about gaining knowledge, students come from various parts of Serbia to enroll our university and acquire knowledge at our university. In addition to the University of Pristina, I have to point out a private college that has come to Zubino Potok these days and allowed students to enter "Alpha" University, which allowed such a healthy and ecological environment, which currently did not have a university, to get to keep the number of young people in those areas. As far as this law is concerned, I will stick to the fact that in the voting day I will support the government's proposal, I will support the addition of the law, and I will vote in favour of this law, because I think it will help students get to the desired goal and gain knowledge as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3722	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sonja Vlahovic, and let the National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3723	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Sarčević and his associates, are on the agenda today to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education. The students, who are studying under the old programme, are extended to finish their studies, and the students who scored 48 points in the current year are ranked under the budget funding quotas for school 2016/2017. A year. Dear Minister Sarčević, this is for you the first draft of the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the law, namely only five members, your firstborn. I wish you successful work and all those who know you, know that you will justify the trust given to you and pointed out by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. We know that you spoke with the representatives of the student parliament of the university, and that the High Education Council is in agreement with this amendment and the addition of the law. When I was a student at the University of Belgrade, Belgrade University was one of the most prestigious institutions in the region that attracted students from around the world. I know that you will have to work hard to rank even better among other world universities by 2020, for our Belgrade to become a educational centre again, not only in the region, as it is today, but also beyond. You have noticed that individuals don't need higher education, it simply hasn't changed them, because the valuable qualities and qualities that you gain as a person are not only achieved through higher education, but you bring them from the family, but it won't prevent us today, in fact in the day of voting to vote for this amendment and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3724	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, and let the MP Ivana Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3725	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a bill that retains provisions whose adoption is obviously necessary. The proposal concerns regulation of matter which is relevant for determining the status of students and as regards the time limit for the completion of studies that have been initiated in accordance with the rules applicable before the entry into force of the Higher Education Act and with regard to the financing of their studies on the burden of the budget. The 2005 Higher Education Act has suffered some changes and additions so far. However, because of the circumstances that exist now and because of the situation where students now find themselves it is necessary to pass a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. First of all, at a time when the law was passed, the provisions of it were not fully in line with the real state, i.e. criteria and conditions for study for which students were obviously not prepared. Reality has shown, as expressed in student demands, that there is a problem with a large number of students with meeting conditions. A large number of students studied for a long time, and year after year they asked for an extension. It has also been shown that due to the standards introduced, the lower budget threshold must necessarily be reduced, in this case from 60 to 48 points. In addition, a small number of students managed to enter the following year with 60 points, as provided for by Article 88. The law on higher education, which is that a student who makes 60 points in the current school year, has the right to finance himself from the budget in the next school year if he ranks as part of a total number of students whose studies are financed from the budget. It is important to reduce the number of points and extend the time limit within which students will complete the studies started according to the curriculum and programme, the conditions and the rules of study in accordance with the rules applicable until the entry into force of the Higher Education Act. The reduction in the number of points does not affect the quality of the study, because it is so difficult to achieve those 60 points, and on the other hand there are no negative financial implications for the budget, because it is the same number of students financed from the budget, which is determined by the government's decision. As regards this three-month period left for the alignment of general acts of higher education institutions with the law when it enters into force, I would point out that changes in such a character that colleges can go into direct application of the law, and will certainly bring their general acts into line with that law. The alignment procedure is not simple, given the nature of decision-making at the university. There is a certain procedure and there are certain facts that such decisions must be made, and therefore this harmonisation of general acts with that draft law, that is, by the time it enters into force. There are relevant committees on the ropes of scientific areas, the Senate of universities, the council of universities, and so on. In any case, students must be introduced to class in October. Because of the delicate situation in which the students are located, I would invite my fellow MPs to continue to be constructive in the discussion as they are today and I would like to support the draft of this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3726	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Let MP Dragan Vesovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3727	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to speak today about this topic in the day that we discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. When it comes to any level of education, I think it is necessary to consider all the circumstances as far as possible at some point, which affect one process and show understanding and ugly support to those who need it. Today, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the 2005 Higher Education Act has been amended several times in terms of individual solutions. With each change, efforts were made to get as much support as possible for students as possible, as well as to increase the number of highly educated people in our country and make the most of the budget funds that are allocated to their study. Of course, all of this took care of and maintained a certain quality of higher education. The very fact that the new system of studies was not applied to all higher education institutions simultaneously implemented and in everything as originally prescribed, led to all these amendments to the law, including today's proposal. I believe that this proposal should also be accepted as regards the extension of the deadline for students enrolled in primary studies and studies at higher schools, as significant dynamic changes, changes in plans and study programmes have occurred in many higher education institutions in recent years. This means that if students who study according to the old system moved to the Bologna process, the study would go back a few years. Practically, they would get new exams, and according to the program by which they studied a number of exams would be recognised, and in this new programme, these exams do not exist. Practically, those exams they passed, we can say they wouldn't be valid. As regards the proposal relating to the reduction in the number of points needed to be achieved in order to get the possibility of putting on the ranking list, to 48 points, and that it is on individual study programmes for various reasons, e.g. conditional subjects or two-month exams, it is difficult to score 60 points in one school year, but I agree that it is not impossible to achieve according to the Ministry of Education data, the fact is that the 48 points achieved have no financial effect per budget, since it is always the same number of students that can be financed from the budget, which is determined by the government's decision, and then these students rank within their colleges. The fact is that only 10% of students manage to meet the legal requirement and collect 60 points, and the government's goal is not to burden them financially, which is why it is proposed that the budget limit remain 48 points, and I therefore believe that this proposal should be accepted. I would also point out, when it comes to higher education and that graduates need to extend the deadline for completion of the study, because it is a group of students for whom no special funding should be allocated from the budget or some special curricula, because, basically, their study consists of ex departments and consultations with their mentors and simply, if the deadline for studies is extended, only for students in basic studies and not for postgraduate studies, it would in some way be discrimination that is nowhere recorded in the practice so far. But I hope that in the debate, in particular, we will come to the best possible solution for this level of study. I am near the end of the exhibition, I would like to point out that I come from the Ub municipality, in which it invests a lot in all levels of education, which has never resulted in more students on the territory of our municipality and never more fuller schools. In the end, I would also point out that the prime minister in the programme's presentation stated that education contributes to the country's social economic development and represents the most profitable investment in long-term well-being. I believe that, among other things, accepting these proposals is the way to the mentioned development and I call on all MPs to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3728	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Let the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3729	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, the law we now want to change has been passed in 2005. We intend to extend the deadline to our students for another two years, and then with simple mathematics we come to the conclusion that the time of study in colleges that lasts four or five years will be 13 years. So it's going to be relative to what normal time limits are, two and a half, in certain cases and three times. That's nice, and I think that's really enough, and I think that after this extension, no extension should ever be the subject of our conversations again. It's nice what you mentioned earlier, you said that about 4500 students of about 12,000 who should be affected by this, were willing to initiate legal proceedings, that the damage that was done to them in this way would be compensated for them. After that you mentioned that you were working on making a new law on higher education, I ask you to introduce into that law and put something in place that represents a student's obligation. I fully agree that all their rights should be respected, but I also think that the 13 years these get are quite correct times. And then there was this weakness that I saw my colleagues talking about, that we didn't mention students who were in postgraduate studies, that they too needed to extend their period of master's and doctoral studies. It's pulled me back on one thing that I've been constantly doing politics for the last four, five years. It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that we always do a lot more to those who are bad than the good ones. I don't mean to offend anyone, accept all subjective and objective circumstances that have been hampered by the study of those who have extended their studies. At the time I graduated college, my college lasted five years, the average time of study was seven, eight years. I'm talking about the University of Belgrade's dental school. What's happened since then? For 16 years, I worked as a professor of professional studies at the Medical School of the King. I'm responsible for telling you that the strongest generation was the first. Every next one was worse than the last one. Thank God, from those generations today I have a large number of colleagues, a large number of academic citizens, but somewhere, Mr. Minister, we slipped. We came into a situation today that we have people who have finished colleges, and they don't have school friends, because they don't know where they are, who they went to school with. We came into a situation today that it's weird when someone says it, and I like to say that I went to school when I was a kid. Now, look, I went to school when I was a kid and I finished college when it was time. Now, we have those other problems that may not be and certainly are not the topic of your work in the ministry. What about those affairs, the guy, the index at Kragujeva University that's the biggest affair, and it's not resolved? Why do we keep thinking about those who are worse? What about 60-point students? What about students who have an average of over nine? What about the students who finish their college in due time? With what act, which idea, I beg you to come up with when you're making the law. The group of those who need to be the pride and engine of this country intended to be protected. I haven't found it yet. Then we wonder when our doctors leave the country of Serbia and then we wonder, and we also experienced it from local assembly speakers, unfortunately, and from some ministers from past ministries that they were making statements - so let them go if it's better. Who's gonna stay? You, as Minister of Education, must be the head of that house and you must consider each of these things in your mind. I personally and liked that at one point you were sharp and that you answered the way we ask you questions. I've seen that energy, and there's got to be energy, and the problems you're dealing with, here, I'm just a part of them, you try to solve them, and don't forget the good ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3730	Thank you. The word of the people has the letter of Alexander Jerkov, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since Mr. Minister is angry when we talk about things that he doesn't think are part of the agenda, then first let me ask him about the agenda point – and where have you been? Why do you come with this bill of law now that the school year is over, when the new school year has begun, when many of the people to whom this law applies don't know what to do. The colleges didn't know they were counseling them, some had extra costs, some waited for the law to be passed, some were looking for various side channels to find out what they were supposed to do? In fact, my question to you is, what day did you find out that this problem exists and what day did you realize that this problem could be solved by law and was it the day that you proposed this law in the Assembly or did it happen a little earlier? Another question about this proposal that you came up with today – where are the first generations of students enrolled in the Bologna system? You confirmed when some of the MPs were, this is how you gesturely confirmed, when some of the MPs spoke about the fact that Bologna did not get into our higher education in the right way. Someone can say that the system itself is bad, someone can say it's good, but the fact is that the definition, then the Republic of Serbia that the Bologna system is being received in our higher education, is that many higher education institutions have not applied in the right way. The first few generations of the sicko were kind of an experiment, and they really weren't to blame for the situation they were in today. It is unclear why this law today does not apply to them, and it does refer to some who have studied much longer than they do. And you will see when you consider amendments that there is one amendment among other things that proposes that they be included in this group that extends the study deadline. You, as well as many MPs, have received many letters and from these students, as well as from all others. It's very ugly that these people are being talked about as unemployables, sloths, I don't know what they can hear in public, actually how they're all described in public because their fates are really different. Most of the time, they have to work. The data on the number of people who took cash credits because they could pay children membership fees, the tuition was really absolutely devastating. What's another problem, I hope you won't be angry, not directly about this law, is that our students don't really know what they get for these fabulous tuition prices at all, especially at community colleges where real college still doesn't have a lot of study costs and that's another big problem they're very hard to talk about. According to what they have told us, and probably you have received such information from them, if they do not extend the deadline for them, and some colleges, by the end of the week when we may not even adopt any more amendments to this law, end the period in which they can re-enlist, they estimate that their costs, so that they can continue studying, will be about 100,000 dinars and, of course, estimate that many of them who can't afford to leave school. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider that they join this group of people who are being extended to the law. I won't be the first to say I think these changes are cosmetic. I hope what you said you were preparing a law on higher education that would be true. I hope that you will do so in collaboration with the National Assembly, that we will not see the bill proposal until it comes and I hope that you will have time to look at the strategy adopted by the Government in which you were not personally, but the government that consists of the same parties that are making up the government today and that the next time you come, you will be able to tell us that in the next three years you intend to implement what the strategy says, so let's see, or change the strategy or change the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3732	The word is made by Minister Mlada Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3733	For the sake of the public and for your sake, on August 22nd, we from the Ministry have instructed the procedure to proceed in this direction. I cannot answer why the Assistant Minister for Higher and Previous Minister said so – categorically not. I went a little deep, and I took it to get into that story. Of course, more and more procedures take three weeks of my own free will. Then, the High Council was on vacation. When they came, they were important. I really don't know what else to say but respect. We originally put doctors and magistrates in our proposal. But I really don't know, teach me, I have 60 years to ignore institutions. I was so raised. I have a problem with myself. When the Assembly used to discuss the bodies that you form, it was my request and some energy that we're changing, to ask these people as well. I've taught my students as an older colleague that they're really better organized first, they've got, like, two, three wings. They're trying to prove that by counting the number of colleges some majority of them have been identified. That's how I deal with myself. I certainly gave them first advice, which is that they have a quality class. That this is the first condition, that it will certainly be one of the groups that will be invited to participate in all processes. What my colleague said, those best students will certainly have a lot more to say. We also used time during the summer, I mentioned earlier, that very democratically we heard what the academic community said. There really was a college that started on time. They refused, some even artistically, some we didn't ask, even many more private refused. We only had to say that for the sake of truth and plan B, and what if you don't adopt here, and what if the government doesn't want to adopt. So we've made a strategic story that it doesn't cost people much, that we influence colleges not to charge them now for something cruel, which they shouldn't. We'll influence it in the future. When we change the law, it will be a very important policy of the Ministry. Then we also looked under that variant of what it would be if it wasn't. Studies that are very similar to 65-75% acceptability and similarity to be acknowledged. Some colleges, and we asked for it as an opinion, cited as reasons why they shut down the classes, that there were no professors, no textbooks, that wasn't true. All the reasons have been thoroughly done and what's responsible for me and my team, I'm really trying to prove here that there was no way that we were transferring responsibility to others, but in the given circumstances and in the given time we did what we could. Thanks for the advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3734	Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3735	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 107. I would just ask that, when we are already in the debate and we are already debated in this way that I welcome, really thank the Minister for being involved in the debate from time to time, so answer our colleagues' questions, we had one question that was being raised on several occasions that we didn't get an answer – will the students who signed up for Bologna be able to count, by Thursday and Friday, just so you know, will they get an extension?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3736	Will you explain to me what this has to do with Article 107, please? Will you explain to me what this has to do with article 107? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: If you allow me, I will explain. You can't explain it to me. Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Miss Jerkov, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3737	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this really is an important question and you answered the first part of it, and I think it should have been, it might have had to be a little faster. It has once again proved that the elections that have been claimed to in no way disrupted the functioning of anything in the Republic of Serbia have greatly disrupted us, the elections that were a person's personal wish, so I believe there was no need for this delay at all. But this second question is extremely important. Why aren't the bolognas in this extension now? When you think about higher education, do you think about what it takes for that higher education system or think about who at which point of pressure, who at which point is louder because if that's how it works when it comes to higher education, then it's extremely dangerous. So you are obliged, because of those people who are not at all small, to answer the question – what is happening to them, will they be extended, because the sums that colleges are asking them to perform by the end of the week are not negligible at all? I think we owe them an answer here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3738	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3739	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, today we have a theme that is being repeated year after year. What I think we all agree on here is that we should open and create a society of equal odds. Under that code of equal chances by who knows which time we extend deadlines for students who entered their studies in 2005. But I think here in this room, even though we want to be too strict sometimes in the part to say – there's been a lot of studying over the allowed deadline, we're going to be in a position to open up the question of how many aspects we can look at today's student, magistrate and doctor. First of all, what ambience do we live in? We live in an ambience where over the past four years we have had economic reforms and fiscal consolidation that have affected all social classes, and so have students and magistrates and PhDs, who indeed in their environment may not have had time or opportunity to finish the job when we talk about studies. But what is important is to say that, when it comes to economic reform and fiscal consolidation, we need to compare the constant percentage of highly educated personnel in Serbia compared to the countries of the region and the Member States of the European Union. We are aware that 10% of highly educated personnel in Serbia have acquired their diplomas at state universities, 6% at private universities, that it is 16%, but that percentage in developed countries goes from 40% to 60%. Our strategic goal, as Serbia states, is 35%. This means that we are very little on that line on which we have drawn out certain tasks and that we should simply use all our resources in the country, all the relevant entities in society to raise this percentage in a certain way. If we want to create Serbia as a knowledge society and a society of innovation, we should support everyone to learn and realize that learning is a continuous process that we should all, as well as we MPs, as well as students, as well as high school students and founders. What we must be up to is education reform, but reform and higher education. The reform will certainly not begin overnight, and it has primarily started with certain advances that have been carried out in the past four years by the Ministry of Education in these difficult times. If we're to say, to be fair, what has the Ministry of Education and Science done over the past period, then besides what you've heard, what my colleague Orlic said, that he has also created this center for ethics and the central register in which all the doctorates will really put themselves on public display. If we say that a centre has been reached and is formed in which the unification of the nostration of diploma, which has been waiting for more than a year or two, we must say that conditions have also been created for the creation of a new proposal for a new law on higher education, which the minister also spoke of. But it should also be said that a strategy for international higher education and the IT Group, which united a certain type of register, when we talk about higher education institutions, even when we talk about the work relating to a united figure in Serbia's budget, means, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science and Education, they have practically established data on the own revenues of all scientific and research institutions. It means that a lot has been done, especially when we talk about projects carried by the ministry, that 18 projects under way in co-operation with the European Union totalling 17m euros, but that the Committee on Science and Education and the Committee on European Integration has adopted a negotiating position for chapters 25 and 26 relating to this area, which is a significant step and an indication of how much effort and effort not only has been made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also by parliamentarians. When they went to international delegations outside Serbia, they said it was precisely that Serbia that wants to establish a society in which real progress will go towards not only economic reforms and economic development, but also the development of the labour market, which simply must go together with the development of science and technological development. Why science and technological development? Because when we talk about the development of the information society and the pawning of everyone and of the professional public and the ministry, and even the educational council that has made the decision and parliamentarians here to introduce the information society as a mandatory subject in high school, it is necessary to say that all decisions that have been made have been made on the basis of the real situation in Serbia at all, and this situation, we should say, is as far as we have been able to develop ourselves as a society. What does that mean? This means that in large cities, we can really form centres and equip schools when it comes to information, but resources, human resources are very difficult to find, because when you make a decision to do so for Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac then it is simple, but when you say that it should apply to 40 municipalities such as Prokuplje, Crna Trava, Vranje, Leskovac, then there are certain problems when we talk about schools in rural areas. So we need to be aware of how much we as a society are able to make such responsible decisions and make a big leap in society when it comes to the development of education and science. Why are we talking about higher education now? Because our universities, especially the technical colleges in Serbia, must simply be related to the information society to the large companies involved in this area. Because of this, when we talk about dual education, we have so far had models such as professional practices, volunteer, traineeship, it is easy to make this decision at the level and higher education level, that certain recent years, especially technical colleges, are exclusively related to large systems, for large economic operators of large multinational companies that have opened their production plants in Serbia. That's why when we talk about the relationship between economy and science, it has to exist, it just has to exist on one envious level, and that's what the Higher Education Act has to mean. I therefore believe that, through certain projects, the Ministry has certainly brought these proposals to the attention of all relevant entities in society on this subject. What should be said is that if we are talking about this topic today that we are giving students the opportunity to extend their period of study, I am somewhere and as a professor, who I really do a lot of work with students, I don't think it's like some big flaw for all those who want to learn, whether we're talking about four and a half thousand people, or if we're talking about 12,000 people who wanted to show that they just want to learn. The basic problem is whether the state will finance it or whether they really have the will to learn. If they are willing to learn and self-finance themselves, they should be given a chance on certain models and should be referred to new learning models and new study models and should not be hitched to anyone in this desire to get a degree, precisely because of this low percentage of higher education personnel in Serbia. I think that we as a society really always have to be on the student side, because there is no Rules of Procedure that today in society can say a student is wrong. The student is always right when he wants to study. But what the state needs is to create an environment in which he will truly be able to exercise his rights. We're always somewhere on the border, can we help or not? But when we say that nothing costs college what they pay for, it's just not true. First of all, the use of the institutions that exist in this country, and then the working hours of teachers who give to certain groups, the maintenance of the facilities of the highly educated institutions themselves, really cost a lot when you look at certain budget items, especially when it comes to the Budget Law. You will see that when you perform and share with the number of graduate students, then the price is much, much, tenfold higher than in developed countries that have a much higher number of graduate students and the simple state always has to find a certain balance. Education and higher education should not be a social category in society, but rather a developmental opportunity for society where each of the students at the final years begin to contribute to the economy, but with these graduated diplomats have secured certain places. That is why it is of great importance to open factories, new jobs in Serbia, especially prestigious companies from abroad, especially those who say the inflow of foreign, direct investments does not mean much. You can ask any economic expert he will tell you that the inflow of foreign direct investment directly affects poverty reduction and affects an increased number of practical growth and business development and the application of innovation in society. It's simply that anyone who wants to devalue the work of the Ministry of Education and Science is malicious and does not contribute at all to the development of the level of consciousness in the public that learning is our basic principle of working in which you can go as a society forward. In the end, I'd end up expecting a new law here in the Assembly. We expect a new concept, or a new platform of talks, and I believe that the minister will indeed provide a conversation with all relevant entities in society on the issue not only of the Higher Education Act, but of all the laws, because if it is a matter you have a certain kind of change, reform and that this new platform will lead to the development and progress of society. Why? We need to simply change a lot of things when it comes to science and the application of innovation, because technology and technological development are going too fast, social sciences can't follow it. We are, today, simply, facing these new technological solutions and we must quickly follow these changes. These changes will surely go through new legal solutions and surely require greater support from society for such changes. In the voting day, not only will SNS MPs support such proposals concerning new changes, but I am sure that many of their proposals and new solutions will also support opposition parties' MPs, because if they have so far spoken of wanting progress and support for all students of the magistrates and doctors then they will have to show it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3740	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3741	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 96(1) and (4) Item 1 point 4. – The following schedule includes MPs for the word alternately, as they support or dispute the proposal, which states in the application for the word. If the application for a word does not state whether or not they dispute or support MPs speak in the end. Item 4 shows – Applications for a word in writing shall be submitted prior to the opening of the search. So what we have here is that today after the start of the search we received a list of speakers in which counterpart Tomic was listed as someone who defined himself – for. However, we have already entered a section of the list in which MPs have originally defined themselves as undefined. And now suddenly it turns out that the list has been revised, that colleague Tomic is suddenly undetermined. I can understand that someone was undetermined at first, so that during the course of the debate, it was defined as – for and – against, but I don't understand how this reverse process is happening, especially if the next two speakers on the revised list belonging to the SNS parliamentary group, which is Branislav Blažić, colleague and colleague Darko Laketić, were also originally – yes, and now suddenly they are unspecified, and we heard that Tomic said – we will support this proposal. So you are not undetermined, but you are – yes. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3742	Article 96, paragraph 4, one, two, three, four, means point 4, says - statements for a word with the order of MPs are submitted by MPs and MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups in writing until the opening of the search and the other participants in the debate orally after the opening of the search. So, I didn't understand yours for or against. I'm asking you to learn... (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: May I show you? You can't show me. Don't come near me, please. (Saša Radulovic, from town: How so? If you think you're right... Sir, the MPs of the DJB Group must learn finally the Rules of Procedure, the law, to read. Don't show me anything. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You will talk. ) Let them learn to distinguish a member, attitude, point, indent. (Saša Radulović, from town: Au! Then report to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3743	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised for the simple reason that I believe that my fellow MPs from the DJ movement are right because there really are two lists, and that has never happened before, that you are changing the list in the middle of a debate just because you are changing the order of speakers to the last of the SNS MPs speaking. That's really not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3744	Mr. Bozovicu, I only have one list, not two, and I'm working on that list. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I will bring it to you! ) The word has the People's MP Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3745	The respected presidency, Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, may not be the right time in this atmosphere to speak without trying to be useful to both Serbia and this Assembly and the Ministry and everyone. I would first like to say that my colleague Bicanin mentioned the education strategy run by Vlasta Matejic and Ivan Ivić, which we have been sworn in for a long time. There in the discussion, she pointed out that it was written there that 38% of higher education should be there by some year. I need the truth to work, since this is what Serbia is listening to, to say that the Strategy does not write from the total population, but if the Strategy is implemented, then at some point in time 38% of Serbian citizens aged 30-34 will have a certain percentage, in particular 38% at that close age. It's a very big difference, because the whole idea of the strategy is to follow those cohorts, i.e. to be those covered by the education strategy, to have them trained to the level of the university. So this is one general data, important, but there is no illusion that no one is laughing at us when we say it – 38% of Serbian citizens with higher education. It's past this parliamentary group of mine, but it's very important to tell the truth for it. Let me get to the point specifically. The topic has changed the deadline given by the law, which was first established in 2005. The question arises – why has the deadline changed? I can understand, believe me, dear colleagues, I can understand that one of these discussions was in 2012 or even in 2008, at the first moment that some colleagues simply didn't quite quite define themselves, so now they want to change something. However, when it started in 2012, I think some cardinal mistakes have been made that we are now correcting. If you are indeed MPs, if there were among you those who voted in 2012, you have passed such provisions, I do not think that it was something that was meant to help students. That was to keep the business out of the way, so that we could extend the term, so that they might see what they would do and how they would do it. If it had been a sincere desire to help students, the first thing that should have been said at such a one-day session four years ago, that is – this is also the number of students, precisely. Then, when it came to the agenda again in 2014, it was supposed to be from that number of students, that's 2000, that's 1200, that's any number, that's the percentage of students that went into the process. So that's what's missing from this whole thing. Now in 2016, again completely without any data, how can I say, we trust "mommy" and "honor" someone to extend the deadline and simply be, maybe in 2018 we'll have the same attitudes and have to do, because nobody did a good job in 2012, 2014, so here we are doing the wrong job 2016. I would be very interested in whether it was in the 2012 or 2014 session stenograms, did it say that this was the last time? Since we heard that today - well, this is really going to be the last time. What Serbia lacks, it is a very big problem, it is a feeling of each of us that when a decision is made or some law is made, then there will be a certainty that it will be so. I, as a longtime man from the university, worked for 43 years, had opportunities for students to tell me when I announced something in advance – well, we didn't believe that you were serious. That's how Serbia works. So, if there was a desire to really solve this problem, already starting in 2012 it should have been conditioned, what we're not doing here today, to tell the colleges, but depending on which college these students come from. I've been to a small college, so I've been to the Faculty of Chemistry, and I can say that we've worked very hard to be efficient and good, but a certain number of students have probably been brought to believe something they can't achieve and I'm afraid that one of the big problems at this point is that even if these students still believe even if by 2016, or 2018, they're not finished, we're going to extend it to 2020, because we're deciding from a small brain, without any elements, without any judgment. So that's the first thing I wanted to say and that I believe is important. Continuing, if we wanted to help these students, we at the university, we should have said, in those colleges where that's a big problem, we should have said -- come on, colleagues, and once again we'll take you into the education system on those two subjects. Today we heard there was a big problem at the Faculty of Geographic. If it's the Faculty of Geographical Sciences who has this problem, it's supposed to be solved there, but to say exactly who the number is, who's responsible and how we're going to get out of it. This method, where something that is armed until a certain day goes on without any new elements, is a method that we can't support in any way. Now that we've come to this state of trouble, it's probably the only way to extend the deadlines, but we have to understand that it would be very good, with this decision, that there's one reminder to both colleges and students that it's time to start believing in fairy tales, like that. The Cinderella where exactly midnight will happen and after that there is no more – we were joking, we'll continue for an hour after midnight. I'm sorry to caricate like this, but it's one of the sad things about our situation. The other thing that also has to do with today's bill is about points, about 48 points and the whole situation. There is only a cartoon of what Serbia has done with its Bologna. What we call Bologna in Serbia has nothing to do with any logical settings that Bologna asked for. I have to say, there are very few colleges that have tried to do some of that. It's a big problem that we tried to push Bologna into the old molds. I was in college, when we tried to bring in Bologna, asked those officers downstairs – and what seal should we hit the index? This was the main problem of Bologna, and many universities still talk about it today. Some 60 fictitious points need to be crossed into I don't know what to sign up for the first year. The year after Bologna is no more, no more years, there is only the school year 2015/2016, 2016/2017. and at that moment each student chooses certain areas, lectures, exercises from certain subjects and studies. So, one very important change, and that's important to hear in Serbia. So I'm taking this opportunity to say that this is what we're doing the cartoons for right now. I also know why this cartoon happened. What's a huge danger, even to add, is that we've linked the study to funding, and that year by year. That's what the colleges imposed. He needed every student to have his own itinerary, and that would be much cheaper for Serbia. I wouldn't talk anymore. We're a very small parliamentary group and I'm wasting my time, trying to show that we're very solid, very constructive, but this is the way we shouldn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3746	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and let the MP Marko Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3747	Dear Ministers, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about higher education, something gets in my throat, whether because of the memory of my student days, whether it is regrettable for some system of values, both in society and in higher education. The old Chinese proverb says – if you think a year ahead, sow rice, if I thought ten years ahead, plant a tree, if I thought a hundred years ahead, educate the people. This is a great truth, and the real reforms in our education are the right answer to the demand for the future and the need for new knowledge and new skills. The erosion of our higher education began in 2002, 2003, with the expansion of private universities and private universities. At one point we had nine universities and 60 private colleges. This by our size compared to European countries is certainly the most convincing number. This hyperproduction of students and diplomas has brought nothing good to society, on the contrary, I can even say that it has been a brake to the development of society. Students at these private colleges are not seen as young people to be taught, trained to be the foundation and pillar of society tomorrow, but more to be seen as a source of income. They do not learn or train themselves to succeed through knowledge, effort, and work, but in this kind of cash the environment learns from the opposite and the bad habits of life and life’s understandings. We're here to discuss reducing students from 60 points to 48 so they can enroll in the budget. The plan was to do it for one or two years, and in that time to raise the quality of the course and provide a number of deadlines so that students can provide 60 points. The quality of teaching depends primarily on the quality of the teachers themselves. Unfortunately, in our society, many professors gain the calling of professors by not meeting the criteria of the National Council of Higher Education, nor having enough work done, nor having enough knowledge and experience when it comes to pedagogy and methodology, without saying that at some universities, in some professors, the passing over a test period is somewhere below 10%. For many generations, they had problems continuing their education. When it comes to other criteria, which exist to improve the quality of teaching, they gave on some subject we have two or three professors. Different understandings, different methods of work certainly reflect students’ success. On the other hand, there are different approaches when it comes to checking knowledge, whether we have written, whether we have oral, whether we have enough colloquium, what the final exams are like. It is all a very complex mechanism to work on and influence to ensure conditions for this quality of teaching to be much better. What's most important is that students must, I repeat, be involved in creating higher education. Mr. Minister, you've taken this very well and I see that you're headed in that direction and I am absolutely optimistic that in this reform of education, given your knowledge, your experience, you will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3748	The People's MP Marko Milenkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Darko Laketić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Higher Education since its adoption in 2005 has suffered a series of amendments and additions, as well as authentic interpretations 2007, 2008 and 2010, and then the dynamization of these changes and interpretations will take place in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and, now for the fifth year in a row, 2016. You gentlemen promised upon coming to power that you would correct all the bad things that made the dosmaniers, and you just kept going the same way. It is a public secret in academic circles, but also in the community, that studying in the Bologna system, announced as a magnificent reform of the education system, regardless of the so many praises of its quality, I mean primarily on the mobility of passing exams from one college to another, to transit from domestic to foreign colleges, which did not come into practice, generally destroyed the higher school system. In addition to today's current abduction of Kosovo, as another form of ultimatum, in 2005, the West imposed Bologna on us, because it was not their goal to create geniuses, but to fool the nation. However, they failed to do so. Although it was signed by 46 states, the application of the Bologna system over the past ten years has confirmed all its inexcusability and senselessness, because if it is so good, which is why it has not been implemented by Oxford and Cambridge. The old Latin saying is: a quota of non-movera, that is, what lies still should not be touched, and it refers as a reminder to governments and rulers not to exaggerate with the adoption of reforms on the back of the people. It is not disputed that reforms are being made. However, there are no positive effects of these reforms anywhere, especially in such important resources, such as education, as the basic basis of society or agriculture, as our basic development opportunity. One of the most important problems that should have already been addressed in these amendments and additions certainly relates to the acquisition of professional names defined in Article 95 and its cohesion with Article 8. Law establishing a system of education and training relating to employment in educational institutions. In fact, students who finish primary studies with 240 points get the title graduates, and students who finish master's studies get the name master and now there's a problem, because when hiring in educational institutions they can only work with masters graduates, or those who end up old, while practically diplomas from primary studies are worth nothing. New directors of schools and other institutions do not recognize it when calling a competition, but students who complete basic studies must go to the master if they want at least to have a theoretical chance of employment. This gives the impression that it's only important to take money from students and their parents for a master, because students feel damaged both materially and morally. Many universities have therefore moved to an integrated system of education, where they have collected basic studies and masters, but the question is whether that is the right solution. Also, in the field of art, we encounter the following problem, calling the graduate art theory and master art theorist not in line with the competitions discussed by school directors for graduate music educators, and students cannot be employed in schools because of the title they write to them in diplomas. Furthermore, when it comes to the conditions of choice with the calling of teachers in Article 64 of the existing law in one position, it is prescribed that, with the calling of the doctor from the field of art, a person with the professional title of the doctor of art can be selected, and then, in the following attitudes, it is predicted that even for a docent, extraordinary and regular professor, a person who has completed basic studies and works of art that are further categorized can be selected. In this way, wide possibilities and space are opened for various manipulations, as it is left to the majority of colleges and universities to interpret these attitudes of the law as it suits them, either on a daily basis, or perhaps according to personal sympathies and affinities. I would personally like the proposed amendments and additions to this Law to be at least a small step forward in the areas and issues that we have raised in today's discussion, but unfortunately they are only a way to survive without protests and without strikes, the start of a new school year and again remain unresolved, unsettled issues of education, which is a condition that can only be answered by our enemies. These changes do not solve essential problems and do not introduce order in the area of higher education, let's say you deal with the process of accreditation that has shown certain shortcomings and should in any case be much more transparent and bring higher quality to higher education. You haven't even dealt with academic scandals that have shaken Serbia in the last two years of your predecessor Srdjan Verbic's ministry, when he mainly defended himself with silence or unmistakably answered questions. What about the introduction of plagiarism software? He would have solved many, of course not all, but to this day unresolved issues. What about the financial status of higher education? High school institutions do not have enough resources for scientific work, for innovation, for research activities, for the pursuit of scientific educational activities in a broader sense, and there are cases that unless the Ministry of Additional Resources supports the holding of a scientific meeting, the meeting will not be held for financial reasons. From what they get from the state, colleges can't meet half their needs and therefore resort to an increase in tuition prices. The teachers' salaries were reduced and you know what was the general assessment of that academic layer? Well, at least some of them are, at least although they're reduced, let's just see some positive shifts, some of the positive effects of taking away from those who need to create a national scientific and cultural elite. However, after two years of this so-called solidarity tax, no population in Serbia lives better. Your first step should be to move education from the social field to the development area and not to be seen as a practical waste of money, but to be one of the best and most profitable investments in the longer term. That is why, Mr. Minister, for starters, you need to lobby with your colleague, the finance minister, and then with the Prime Minister, that in the 2017 budget for education, you do not need 6% such as in the EU countries you are so anxious for, at least 3% in Serbia, at least let it go to 3.5% if it can't be more, and in the coming years, this amount will continue to increase. The constitutional basis for lawmaking certainly exists, and here in the explanation you write that the law is passed in order to improve the efficiency of the higher education system. If these are measures to improve the efficiency of the higher education system, and in the morning it is known, I fear that this efficiency will be nothing. The Enlighteners would like you to be a good minister and you certainly have the essential preconditions to be, after your predecessor Srdjan Verbic, it is not difficult to be a good minister. If it comes to plagiarism, Verbic will find justification in laws where it is not clear in which cases something is considered plagiarism, as well as children from the first grade of primary school, if you give them two texts of identical content or an identical set or a series of sentences, explain Verbic and clarify all potential ambiguities and misunderstandings. In any case, a system solution is needed. Such diplomas with dubious quality are of no use to anyone, system institutions are not interested in these problems, and as a state and society, we are just sinking deeper into the crisis of ethics and the quality of higher education. I remind you that 15 years ago, Prof. Vojislav Seselj discovered the plagiarism of the worst species in the Faculty of Law, a certain Stevan Lilić, who for his book "Governmental Law" prescribed chapters and chapters of the top Serbian and world intellectual, Laza Kostic. Dr Vojislav Seselj referred to the plagiarism of Stevan Lilić with a comparative method to the public, all precisely, the insolence and defilement of the dirty plagiarist Stevan Lilić, as Dr Vojislav Seselj reads, so Stevan Lilić, who published the textbook, imagine co-authorically with the previously deceased professor. Nikola Stjepanović, from whose book the administrative law of the previous edition prescribed already plagiarized chapters. Finally, as an epilogue after 15 years, we've only been given the silence of the authorities that everyone may be a little rough, but we're harshly realistically interpreting as an excuse. In general, your predecessor's ministry marked constant strikes, his constant announcement of the adoption of new law on elementary school, on high school, on higher education, on educational inspection, on student organisation, threats to technological surpluses, reduction of salaries to educators who continued to strike. As an epilogue of this ministry, we had water spills from such a minister. Of course, we would now define all of this as one disoriented, disorganised ministry with no clear objectives and guidance towards solving the problem and meeting those objectives. What about bribery and corruption? Another unsettled area of higher education. The European Commission's 2014 progress report on Serbia says that the area of education and higher education is subject to corruption and that there is an urgent need for state intervention. You now have a situation on television where a girl, some would call her a starlet, publicly boast that the older gentleman, her friend, bought her a degree, brought her a degree on a gift, and if she hadn't passed a single exam, or if she knew what college she was, she wouldn't have been able to answer her professional name. You, as an old new government, remain silent without an answer to this case. You've got to start somewhere. It's unacceptable, it's scandalous, I'm amazed you haven't responded to today, not taking appropriate measures. If you continue to keep quiet, things like this will happen in the future. At the end of Mr. Minister, 67 days of your ministry is a short time for serious criticism on your account, but for another 33 days and you will be filled as a Government and as a minister for 100 days, and then you will be subject to objective criticism, but this lack of response at the moment to obvious educational crime, if even now that we have brought this case out publicly, you are not responding, then in the future you will not have the right to even declare that you are in favour of improving efficiency and improving the quality of higher education. Keep in mind that you are expected much, because so far there have been too many failures at the posts of ministers of education but also other ministers. What are you going to do, that was the will of the people. So, the SRS and the social community expect you as soon as possible to propose new educational laws that would regulate all these shortcomings and shortcomings and introduce order into this matter. All that Dr Vojislav Seselj has shown you so clearly and precisely today, and here I, in my discussion, tried to contribute in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3750	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Darko Laketić, and be prepared Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3751	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and members of his team, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I hereby amend the Law on Higher Education that we are talking about today, absolutely support. I wouldn't agree with the previous speaker if everything was as black as it shows, but in any case, the shift in this past period definitely was. The amendment of this Article 1, therefore, to the first member, which we are talking about, I see as the idea of the ministry to make maximum use of the budgets invested in financing these so-called so-called funds. old students. Namely, what's this about? If we go from one fact, which is the fact that the state on average invests in a student of 500 thousand dinars, so half a million dinars on an annual basis, there's a lump sum that only one student comes up with a few million dinars in the course of one school. So we must not, by my beliefs and by my views, give up those people who are high school kids tomorrow, so highly educated people. I therefore consider it precisely because the state has invested huge money in these students we must not, above all, deprive their services in some future period. The reason is more and more because these students don't believe they could finish their studies if they had to fit into this new education system. So this is how I think the state is doing it rationally. The least significant reason for supporting this proposal is the fact that the share of persons aged 30 to 34 who have higher or higher education in the EU is almost a third higher than in Serbia, with a share of 36.8% in 2013 and a sensitive increase compared to 2002, the EU has not yet met its set target, which is that in 2020 the percentage is 40%. With Serbia, the percentage is 25.3%. So at a very low level. I believe that these very changes in the law will ease this percentage, i.e. increase this percentage in this age group. I don't think the change in this law is going to be a crucial solution to the problem, definitely, but it's going to ease the percentage I'm talking about, which I think is very important. I think he's good at saying, these are the losing statistics for us, because based on these statistics, we're definitely late for at least 15 years for a valid education strategy. So in 2002, the EU averaged 24% of higher education populations in that age population. We have that percentage today. I certainly think this should be the final deadline for the extension of the study of these so-called so-called. old students, or students who started their education before the entry into force of the 2005 law. As for the amendments to the law, i.e. the amendments to Article 3 and the reduction in the number of spb points that need to be achieved in order to ranks within the total number of students whose studies are funded from the Serbian budget, I think it is justified for a number of reasons. The first reason is because the amendments to the law itself have virtually no financial effects on the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is very significant, must be recognised in these circumstances of the financial crisis. On the other hand, as a university teacher, I have to realize one fact that that number regarding these spb points, I'm talking about a valid law now, I really have to say that there are objective difficulties for students to achieve that quota. I think this is more than a good proposal and more than a good story, and I think that this particular proposal should be made a broad debate, so, and with colleges, with universities, but also with all the relevant entities involved in this process. I think it's the right way. I also think the minister is a very transparent man and a man who is primarily committed to co-operation and I don't think there's gonna be a problem here. The third reason that speaks in favour of the amendment of this article is primarily that this decision is justified for a very practical reason, a large number of students are very poor material status. In this way, they will enter that quota of students financed from the RS budget, which I think is a great thing, and yet that figure will be in that framework legal quota prescribed by the RS government's decision. So it's all within the law on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think this decision will definitely mean to the students that it is concerned with. In the end, I'm going to say one affirmative thing, which is that I've had the opportunity to speak to Mr. Secretary and his views and visions of the education system have really made me happy. I must say that this very vision of the education system gives me hope that it will just set the quality scale of the education system in Serbia at a significantly higher level than it has been in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3752	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, and let the MP Marko Parezanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3753	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and fellow MPs, I think that this topic of higher education in Serbia is certainly significant, but there is something much more important than that, and that is one topic that the Prime Minister of RS, Mr. Alexander Vucic, has raised today, and that is the question, Mr. Minister, how many nights have you spent in the Nisko barracks and have you stayed there long enough and have you returned to the hotel... The emissaries are getting it. I don't understand. It wasn't me who started the topic, it was the Prime Minister who said that all the ministers had abandoned him and that no one had ever stayed with him in the barracks and that there were no conditions and that everyone wanted a bath...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3754	Mr. Radovic, please talk about the subject. You've got 25 seconds left. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: How many 25 seconds?) I was only talking for a minute. You only have a minute left. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: He only spoke for four minutes. You only have 24 seconds left. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: He only spoke for four minutes. No one else in the parliamentary group spoke. You can do it later. We'll get you a copy of the electronic system to see who's talking. It's not a problem at all. (Bosko Obradović, from the post: You took away me a minute when it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Your minutes and 51 seconds have been taken away. There's only as much left as I told you. That's really it. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Then give me 24 seconds.) Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3755	Let these 24 seconds be dedicated to the letter we received from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law students, Ana Cvetic, who is looking for exactly what we were telling you about, that also the bolognas enrolled in 2006. In 2007 and 2008, they get the possibility of extensions and to enable, or support an amendment that would actually be treated as old students, rather than forced to re-enter and pay the costs of a new enrolment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3756	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The People's Messenger Marko Parezenović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3757	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, I am sorry that for the second time today, we have a situation for my colleague Bosko Obradovic to talk about everything, just not about the topic of the agenda, to deal with the SNS, that in every way possible insults the SNS, which is obviously an obsession with him. It's just that I can't let our lectures get the worst of us. I have to say something to the citizens of Serbia and to all of you in the O.R., because it's not fair that we alone suffer savages in Casca. Today, a session of the City Assembly was interrupted in Cačka at one point, because the president of the City Committee of Dvori at the moment he was finishing his speech, so he spoke over his time, and after a warning he continued, when his word was taken away, the man stole the microphone and interrupted the session of the City Assembly. You heard right - he stole the microphone. And it's not the first time that savages and primitives from the Dvora break up that session of the City of Chačka Assembly, and then their boss here is giving us a lecture, and I don't know what it's about. What I want to say is, it's the minister's and his team's up-to-date and some accessibility and communication we've established. I say that as a member of the Education Committee. I can also say that on the case of the city of Cačka, where we had some problems, problems with external evolution, we had a situation that we didn't know whether the school year would start and eventually, with a quality dialogue, these problems were overcome. That's something I want to say, because it's not good in public and in the media, and it's a good principle and approach. We know that very often problems arise in the lack of communication, and that is why I hope that you will continue with such an approach. When it comes to amending this law, it is clear that at this point it should be supported and that these students should be allowed to complete their colleges under the conditions under which they were enrolled. Many of them are very good students, they have extremely high averages and for various, very justified reasons, they have not yet completed their studies, and there is this perception in the public that they are mostly lazy or uninterested students. But it's not always like that. The previous reform of higher education suffers certain consequences of the partial application of the Bologna Declaration, where colleges accepted this reform in terms of imposing the obligations of students, and when it comes to some essential things, such as harmonising the programme, materials, teaching methodologies, implementation of practices, there has been no adequate result, and in this regard I also support the requirements of students to maintain that 48 ESP crossing points in the coming year on budget spending. What can be asked as a question – what is the goal of limiting the length of study? I can agree that it should exist and I think it should exist, above all, because of some maintenance of the quality of knowledge and continuity. The assumption is that someone who has studied too long can and forgets what was at the very beginning, or that it is very late for the first time in a working relationship in that profession, and in that sense I can support it. But I think the situation is a little different now. It's simple, there's a limit that's eight years old. When the eight years pass, the students are told – re-write, we'll add a few exams, pick up where you left off, it's just a problem that you have to pay a lot of money. There are still teachers who consciously maintain low pass-by in colleges, where they tell students in advance that their subject won't pass much, I can say it from personal experience, and simply, in such an atmosphere, some students don't get along, in different circumstances, and when it's eight years, someone tells them – it's okay, you keep going, you just have to pay for it. I don't think the basic objective of that restriction should be that profit of the college itself. What bothers me is next. I can understand students who are the first Bolognas, because they've enrolled colleges at this time of confusion, when Bologna has just begun to apply and they haven't felt these benefits of reform, but what bothers me is certain hypocrisy and politics of the opposition's work. On the Committee itself, in some informal conversations with them, I asked them if these e-mails had arrived, what they thought about, where some said they absolutely did not support it, because they simply subject to some other laws, and today we see amendments being submitted because they are, for God's sake, very concerned about the first bolognas, for those students who suffer the consequences of their reform of education. In 2005, the law was passed. They had seven years to make certain things right, to make nothing right, and today they're very worried about them. What I want to ask you, Minister, is to find a way to meet these students too, so that they can finish their colleges without costing them too much. I think there are colleges, and that's what I've come to believe in talking to students who are willing to do so, but there are also those who aren't. We agree that we need a new law, and I won't talk too much about it today because we'd go far, but I'll just say that I think that higher education reforms should follow both basic and secondary education reforms, and above all in this approach, students and teachers and teachers, from the first day of schooling, so that we don't come to colleges with bad habits, poor discipline and little practical knowledge. We need a clear reform and registration policy, in order for universities to educate those personnel needed by Serbia in the 21st century. So, there's a lot of work here. It is a job that awaits us and should aim to make some real relationship between those obligations and standards that we impose on students, and on the other hand, those benefits that they need from the reform itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3758	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3759	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 106. In a good part of his presentation, the speaker spoke about some microphone theft in Cačka, and we've been working for eight hours, with the agenda theme about the fate of the students who enrolled in Bologna. I think it's very important, given that Thursday or Friday is the deadline for them, that we still give them information today whether there is a political will of this government to meet them or not, given that the costs are so high that they cross 100,000 dinars, depending on the college. I would really ask you to refer all future speakers to the fact that they are talking about the agenda point, the problems that students have faced today who have enrolled in Bologna in their colleges and studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3760	My colleague Bozovic, if I did what you asked me to do, you would have the right to say only the first sentence. Right on line, the word has a folk MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3761	Thank you very much, Chairman. I understand the trauma of the Serbian Progressive Party. I understand it is not easy when Dvori prove it is possible to beat the SNS when we beat them at ten polling stations in Cačka, when we win 25% of the votes in the local elections and when we are their strongest opposition there and we prove that Serbia will soon look when the opposition strengthens the Serbian Progressive Party. Of course, the virus needs to be stopped and prevented from moving the Chacan virus against SNS further into Serbia. But it's impossible to stop. It is simply that a new opposition is born to the Serbian Progressive Party, the Dvori participates in the creation of this new opposition, we take great steps to make the Serbian citizens realize that there is an alternative to the SNS and not fear all threats, all lies, all slanders, all subjugation and everything we experience constantly, when we dare to criticize its supreme deity and the majesty of Alexander Vukic. Guys, don't be afraid. The wolf is just a man, criticise him, be a free opposition, say what you think. Those advances are nothing special. They've got a little bit of strength, they've got a lot of money, they've taken all the media, they've stolen the election, we know all that, but it's no big deal. There were before them such arrogant owners, so here they are, gone today and almost no one remembers them. That's how the advances will go. It's the only thing that needs to be opposed to opposition, to be brave, not to be afraid of Alexander Vukic or anyone else. It is the chacan virus that simply tortures Mark Parezanovic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Understandably, what is happening in the Cacca City Assembly is particularly painful for them, because the kind of opposition work that is present there is a Pelcer of the opposition for all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3762	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. You're absolutely right, one day the Serbian Progressive Party will lose power, I just don't know if you'll be there to watch it. Right on the line. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3763	It seems again that I have to remind the previous speaker that in Chačka SNS she won over 90 electoral units, that she has achieved a convincing victory, that there are 35 council members, and for most of them it takes 38 and she's saying it in herself, and we've already said that just the previous speaker who doesn't like the SNS so much has been offered the same SNS several times publicly for the coalition, and only when he's rejected then suddenly he's not doing well with the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3764	It's a replica again, Mr. Beard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's really time for me to respond to this yet another of the famous SNS slanders, which keeps repeating how the Dvori offered to advances in Chačka. First, it doesn't exist. It never happened. On the contrary, the SNS called on Dvori to consult on the formation of power after these elections and, of course, we responded to these consultations, but they also defined themselves to make one thin majority of the SPS and to continue to rule Chačka the way they have ruled so far. It's just that they don't want to change anything in Serbia or in Cačka. They want to walk the paved path that we've already seen in the rule of some others before, and that's what's the basic problem of the SNS. You've brought nothing new to the Serbian political scene and that's your problem with the Two. You do not agree that something really changes in Serbia. So, in your words, you're big in the fight against corruption, and there's no law on the investigation of the origin of the property. You're great in words, in any other way, but there are no specific works of yours. That's the SNS problem. You've been in power for five years. You have no results and you still call for a very bad regime in the past, you are not used to being in power, you are much more comfortable with the opposition, and when you criticize someone else, and you are not at all comfortable with someone criticizing you. That's what you must finally get used to. You gentlemen are the advances of power. You're the subject of criticism. You have to listen to the opposition criticizing you. The opposition has received support from Serbian citizens to have a serious opposition to criticise you, and you cannot act as if the opposition should not be heard. Of course, that the opposition must be heard and that you must learn to respect the opposition, you can ultimately learn something from the opposition. The opposition is often and constructive and gives you very concrete suggestions that you do not accept just because they come from the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3766	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3767	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for mentioning the party. I am now speaking to you, first of all, Mr. Chairman, because I have no intention of giving importance to anyone who seems to have the essence of being in this place, to try to provoke a replica, to try to attract cameras, possibly eager for large-scale personnel. So, I think that you, Mr. Chairman, were absolutely right that, although there was no basis for the replica, you allowed some to speak here, I mean the man who spoke before me. The more he has a chance to speak, the more obvious it will be how much he has nothing to offer and how much he doesn't know. Among other things, if I call myself a virus, I don't mind. To say he's taking part in forming a new opposition, probably referring to those he shared the stage with in front of RIK, who now seem to be ashamed, denied, distanced from them, I don't mind repeating it as many times as he wants. Well, in this last one, when he proved that counting the time since the SNS was in a position to form a government, he can't even count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3768	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3769	Thank you. Mr. Minister, 20 months ahead of you. What are you going to do in 20 months and what are you going to do in one of those 20 months? If you don't know the answer today, we'll see each other back here in 20 months to extend deadlines for students of elementary studies and graduates and PhDs. What can you do? First, what you have to do and what you should have done before this session, and that is to study the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the National Assembly and the Powers and Jurisdiction, everything you manage and your obligations when it comes to calling the National Assembly, whose minister you are. So, can you do something with colleges? What? Do you mind jeopardizing the independence of the university? You can't. Can you put in place a system of any criteria on what college, from any university, you have the most problems with both postgraduate doctoral studies and primary studies? Who's gonna do this to you? In what way? By what authority? Next month for the next 20. We can read the essays here and recite pictures and fairy tales about what we want education to look like, and 20 months will pass as a moment. Count on 20 hours, not 20 months. And that's where my two questions come from. The first question is, why did you not consult in preparing amendments and supplementing the bill understand that the advice is exactly what the advisory body says, and in your first intention to include, without discrimination, the extension of deadlines for students of primary studies and for graduates and PhDs, you left out graduates and PhDs. My amendment is one of many in this hall to extend without discrimination the deadline for both students of basic studies and graduates of the idocortant, because everything else would be discrimination because they are in the same position in the current law. Why did you leave the students out of Bologna in the end? Why don't you know you can handle the amendment? Why not include an Education Committee that can submit an amendment? If you don't know today, what's our guarantee that you'll know tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or the month after. When you come to the Assembly to tell us, I've measured the system I want to change and I know which colleges, I know which doctors are the biggest problem. My second question is, can you guarantee us that you will pay back the money to the students of basic studies if they have paid the amounts that the colleges asked them for or the doctorates who were asked to apply and to pay for the third year of doctoral studies. Do you know how that money gets paid once? Who's in charge of that? Whatever colleges are suspected of, they asked students and doctors for that money. So these two questions show me today in response, whether you think seriously or seem to have the fact that you have support in the government and that you have support in the Assembly that it is enough in itself. You're the fourth minister to think that's enough. Only four and a half years isn't enough. It's not enough to make it easy for the attitudes we've heard from you here that it's not about the law and that you don't and you don't know how you can handle the amendment. It's not enough to give a description and tell us that it's up to the government that strategic directions have been made. At which meeting of the government and what strategic directions? The strategy hasn't entered the change phase. There are serious things about the topic of higher education in a society. I would like us to understand together everyone here that the topic of education as well as the topic of health, the topic on which it is easy to reach agreement amongst us MPs as it has been achieved when it comes to supporting the amendments. I am grateful to the understanding of SNS MPs that they are truly fulfilling their constitutional duty as MPs and will probably submit an amendment as a committee or some of them, no matter whose amendment is to be voted on, it is important that doctors are not discriminated against, that students of postgraduate studies get their money back. But it's important to me that students who are around Bologna also get their money back and get it made possible. Twenty months, that's what you mean by ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3770	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Maletic, and let the MP Dusan Pavlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3771	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have indeed heard different speeches about these amendments to the Law on Higher Education, although as the minister indicated, all said they would vote for the proposed amendments, but they were hypocritical about what was wrong and questioned the minister about what would be done and why no changes were made. We should not forget that the 2005 Higher Education Act is just supported by most of the MPs who are today criticising the change and work of the Ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, is one of the few governments that took education very seriously, and not only declared it, because when we turn around and look at the previous governments, we will see that everyone in their exposés has devoted, however, two sentences only on education, and they have not dealt with it at all in practice. Today the situation is very different. We already see that the current minister has come up with several solutions, which were necessary, which were echoed in public, which is, above all, the introduction of information, the announcement that entrepreneurial education will be introduced, which is very important for further policy towards higher education and education in general. What the Government has announced and what it is really doing, and what we can see in practice according to the procedures that the Government is conducting, is that there will be a very intensive and closely connected education with the economy, i.e., in particular, private sector. This is what is necessary in order to develop the economy of a country. Many MPs here have criticised and talked about the lack of reforms as announced in the previous cabinet's mandate. However, I would not agree with that, although DS often do not match certain SNS moves, and it apriories, whether it is true or not. I suppose the former regime is much closer to the work of Dragoslav Petrovic, who has a special focus on technological development and science, and I agree, probably does not like the work of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, since it is probably much more productive for the Republic to waste money, thus justifying so-called. Invented by some technological development, which has not been applied at all. The last government has also done several important things. We can't talk about nothing being done. I will only point out that thanks to changes in the previous term of government today we have the opportunity to have in one place a summary of all the doctoral dissertations that are defended. I must also point out that it is an orderly area of recognition of foreign higher education papers. And these are two key things that were very often objecting to governments, and what exactly the government headed by Alexander Vukic managed to do in the previous term. I'm really gonna support these changes. I don't think they're cosmetics, because they're very important and I wouldn't talk about it, I don't know how individuals can go out and talk about cosmetic changes when they're very important to a large number of students in the Republic of Serbia. I will support this law and look forward to the announcement of amendments and the adoption of a new Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3772	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3773	I'll be very brief. I'd just like to draw attention once more to a very important matter. I implore you to answer me what your position is on this matter. This law regulates the thing that ended. So the students expired, they completed their studies by law enforcement on September 30th of this year. You can't extend them now, or what you did in the bill, you've made a law with a return fact. According to Article 197 of the Constitution, such laws are prohibited, except in one case when it is explicitly highlighted and when it is explained what is the public interest in the return fact. It's not there either, there's no explanation, there's nowhere in the law. We'll be able to get someone to file a case before some court or constitutional court, and it'll be very easy to bring this law down. This will do the bear service to the students whom you have now allowed to extend their status. They cannot be extended their status because their status as students has expired. You can only enable them to re-enter these studies, as you did for these patients, therefore, to realize that their status as students is complete and then to allow them to re-enter the old program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3774	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3775	Dear Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, we are talking today about amendments and additions to the Law, which was adopted in 2005. That law has been changed eight times so far. This is his ninth change. In this regard, I now have a question for MPs who were in these benches or who were MPs on 28 October 2008. You were changing article 88 and you gave 48 instead of 60 points, but you gave 48 points for only one generation. If it were you who were doing it for all generations on 28 October 2008, if you had said it here in front of this number 60 – up to 60, or said – 48 to 60, we wouldn't have these problems. Minister, I accept this, but higher education needs a new law. I think you're aware of that. What's good, you gave young people a chance. I think that young people should have a chance to learn and learn. Minister, it's a good thing you spoke to the students, but one word of advice from me, Minister, speak to the teachers. For any change, for any reform, the quality of education needs a satisfied teacher. Don't ever forget that. Next thing you know, there's a story about young people leaving. Young people were leaving, leaving and leaving, and I don't think that's a problem. The important thing is whether these young people are coming back, and I think these young people are coming back to Serbia after a while, which is most important. The most important goal is to learn how to qualify, overqualify and learn what they cannot learn in the country of Serbia, and then return it to Serbia. Something nobody said about the quality of higher education, in 2014 higher education institutions in Serbia participated in 18 selected projects with a total budget of 17m euros. Furthermore, in 2014 and 2015 higher education institutions participate in mobility projects for students and employees with 300 projects and of 37.8m euros for the Western Balkans, we withdrew 16.3m euros. I think it's for every praise and that the citizens of Serbia should know. In the end, something, Minister, about secondary education, you were in Valjevo and thank you for being. You've seen our Agricultural School, which is already in dual education. We have a Technical School, which is also on that level. What is important, Minister, is the realization of practical teaching. I ask you to understand that part of the practical teaching, especially the initial one, must be realized in schools, in school workshops, that this is the beginning, and that the continuation follows in businesses and in businesses. In order for this to be realized, you need to look at the Rules on the financing of secondary education institutions and you need to prepare it, build it up to get those schools that have school workshops. So no school can get a third-degree or second-degree educational profile if it doesn't have a proper school workshop. That's why you need to work on a rulebook that talks about a network of schools. These are all things that solve the direct quality of secondary education, but you know that it is the basis of higher education in secondary education and that secondary education directly affects the quality of higher education. I believe, knowing and reading what you've done so far, that you will surely succeed. I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3776	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering amendments and additions to another law regarding education. This time it's a high school. At first glance, this is just a routine thing where certain deadlines should be extended to meet students again. However, education under no conditions is a routine thing, education has strategic significance for each country. I'm going to talk in my presentation about a particular aspect of education, which nobody here has talked about, but first we need to see what education really is. To see the hill, you have to get to it. To see the mountain, he must stay away from it. Education, it's the creation of a man, and it's a man with a big letter "C." But how do you create a man like that? Who are they to make such a man? Unfortunately, there are few of these in Serbia today, and there are few real teachers today, and when I say "teacher", I am primarily thinking about all those who participate in the educational process. The teacher, the one who educates, plays an extremely important role. In all cultures, the greatest people are called teachers. In India, Mahatma Gandhi was called a teacher. We all know that St. Sava has been called a teacher in our home. The apostles called Christ a teacher. Thus, the teacher should be the one who is able to provide adequate knowledge, open up perspectives, and, above all, to answer the most important questions. The performance indicator of an educational institution is not just the level of professional skills adopted. The performance of an educational institution is also an indicator of the humanity of their diplomats. The quality of the educational institution is not measured by the quality of the façade, but, above all, by the quality of the people, by the quality of the graduates coming out of the institution. If a man knows math well, but he has no honor, he has no high goals, he's an uneducated man. The apostle Paul spoke in his message to the Corinthians, if I speak in the tongues of men and angels, but I have no love, then I am a sobbing cymbal and a ringing bell. Serbia needs real schools and real colleges today. However, our European path has destroyed everything that remains of our education. This is particularly pronounced and has been particularly expressed when the Bologna education system was introduced. The educational institutions that are now represented for the elite are only according to the outer glow. Ask graduates of such institutions what's good, what's evil and they'll start banging nonsense. If you ask them what kind of world view their institution provides, you'll get the same answer. However, such graduates should not be blamed for that. They're charged with secondary knowledge until their primary knowledge is even provided. Such graduates are spared all the important knowledge, such as the theory of evolution, the set of religions, philosophical schools, and so on. The soldier they trained to handle a weapon, and they didn't tell him where to shoot, they're going to shoot on the side where he's most handsome. Here, for example, no one tells our graduates today that, after the end of World War II, the United States has advocated the execution of all Nazi leaders without trial and that the Russians have opposed it. Or such graduates are not told today that one of the most democratic European states, Switzerland, gave women the right to vote only in 1971, even more so in one of the cantons, and much later in 1990. That is why it should not be surprising that our present-day graduates, our youth America and Western countries are experiencing as the ideal of freedom, democracy, enlightenment and everything else, while Russia is experiencing in a completely different way. The Bologna system of education disproves students in thoughtfully of integrated knowledge. This is what someone did on purpose, purposely came from Europe, and of course our people, who were in power, couldn't resist it, and they accepted it. Bologna only provides a description, but no integrated knowledge. An educated man has full knowledge in the world he lives in. An educated man knows where, where and where he goes, and in the full sense of those words. An educated man can't be deceived because he knows social laws. Described according to Bologna, it is intended only to be sold on the labour market. He gets into all the traps that stand in his way, but I'm caught up in one serious subject and I'm gonna keep going in that tone. There's an objective problem here. What's this about? A man can't possess vast knowledge, no matter who it is, and now the question is how a bucket is poured into a glass. However, man can possess absolute knowledge. This is difficult to explain by a three-dimensional logic, but absolute knowledge is faith, love, honor, patriotism, etc. and these knowledge is not subject to rational logic. This kind of knowledge does not require experimental and logical confirmation. A man differs from other beings by having the opportunity to believe. All beliefs are absolute and exclusive and intolerant. No belief is subject to, as I said to rational logic. A man's absolute knowledge cannot be given in a rational form, but it can be given in irrational. As for other things, the greatest beliefs are based on metaphysics, while the weakest beliefs are based on logical and experimental studies. So most people don't have the opportunity to understand everything and now, if we teach them something other than mathematics, physics, English, etc., they can't understand it. An incomplete understanding of a situation is worse than a complete misunderstanding. This may look like a paradox, but that's right. Here's an example of that. In Tsar Russia, at the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church, a dignitary or ober-procurator, as he was called there, who was in charge of the church's relationship with the state in terms of education. One of such Constantinople winners came to favour the limitations of education. He spoke – the irrigation of semi-literate people in society represents the irrigation of land with material that is ideal for manipulation, i.e. material, cannon meat of various revolutions. At the time, he was accused of it, but it turns out that the man was right. The absence of serious education leads to an enormous number of educated ignorants who are easily manipulated. Such are always possible to manipulate and no mathematics, no English and no knowledge of any other subjects can save them from it. We have a situation that there were a lot of great students, but it didn't bring them luck, it didn't even bring them material benefits, and that's because they went after the false orientations that the system gave them, and of course they went astray. Here may be the answer to one political question – why in our political system, even in this room, there are many, many of those who have changed all possible parties? Today, there is no educational institution in Serbia whose goal is to educate a man in the fullest sense. Practically, all schools and all universities are intended only to describe. Even those educational institutions that are represented and considered to be elite are essentially just crafty universities. That's why we have a situation where police and military school competitions are reported by a number of candidates for one place and at the moment when service in the military, in the police, in the army, is no longer as curent and popular as it used to be. We also have a situation where our students go abroad. However, they again do not find what they are looking for and are coming again, they like second-level schools, and that is also the problem this government and this ministry should consider. Real education never comes down to intelligence. A naked intellect is easier to buy than a cheap computer. True science feeds on thoughts. Smart knows how much he doesn't know until the fool knows everything. Since time is running out, I'm bringing an end to it. The central theme of my exposure is the claim that the main quality of education is not only a naked intellect, we have seen that it can be bought, but an intelligence that comes primarily from moral principles. That's why we have a situation where we have a lot of honest people, honest people, but who are not gifted with intelligence and who are very easy to manipulate and who are able to do some wicked things even though it's not appropriate to their nature. And vice versa, we have a lot of people who are educated, they own an intellectual, but they don't have honors, they don't have moral and human qualities, and they're still doing the same thing as the first ones. It's just that one without another can't or can't prove to be insufficient. Finally, to conclude, an educated man is not the one who knows mathematics, physics, English or anything. An educated man is the one who knows the answer to the most important questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3778	Thank you, Mr. Savic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, and let Natasa Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3779	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Sarčević and his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia and the gentlemen of the students who are following this transfer tonight, higher education in the Republic of Serbia, as well as primary and secondary education, falls into the ranks of those sectors that have experienced the greatest disturbances in transition, so that the entire educational system of one prestigious level has sunk during the government of the former regime in the greatest crisis in the national history of education and teaching ideas. Knowledge, education and education of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, assumptions are democracy. They strengthen it, and ignorance pleases dictatorship. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, many serious governments, serious countries in their programmes give education and education a significant place and our Serbian Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, gave a prominent post in his exhibition when electing a new government on 9 August 2016 in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the exposés of Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is the most transparent, most comprehensive, most precise and largest, 206 pages of the shortened version and the best of all previous 73 exposés of the Serbian government starting with the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Matija Nenadovic in 1805, to date, including exposés of President Vukic of 1914, who had 86 sides. Speaking of exposés, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you the news that for the first time in the modern history of Serbia is one of the exposés of the Prime Minister, which is the exposé of President Vukic for the field of education, quoted in an international magazine on the sci Mago list in the magazine "Mediteran Journal of Social Sciences", issue 9, published in Rome, September 2016, page 141, respected gentlemen from the opposition. And you objected the day before yesterday to the exposé of the Prime Minister and Mrs. Aleksandri, our MP, Tomic, that the President's exposés, as she said, has elements of scientific work, and this is proof that it has elements, so this magazine is on the stage of the mago list. Many university professors can only wish their work was on that list. On page 73 of the short version of the exposé of the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, among other things, speaking about education and education, I quote: “What is most important to us and what I wrote most about is education reform, because it is the most important for us, because it is human capital for the future, and we have to learn and learn. We need to raise knowledge to a pedestal from which you can see further and from which you can move on to new campaigns to acquire new knowledge," the quote concluded. When the prime minister, as if he had in mind the thoughts of the great English philosopher Francis Bekon who said, quote: "Knowledge is power, a grain of knowledge is stronger than steel," the quote concluded. What is the power of knowledge and education for the development of Serbian society, but for society as a whole the best shown the famous German philosopher Leibnic who said, quote: "Give me education and education, and we will change the character of all Europe in a short time than it is for a century," the quote concluded. The previous minister that you gentlemen from the opposition and criticised today, Minister Srdjan Verbic, the minister of education sat down in the ministerial chair at a very difficult time, for which you are responsible, which is the time he inherited from the previous former regime characterized by the ethics of the educational system, politicisation, red tape, anti-pedagogisation, even banished education from primary and secondary schools, commercialisation, sorosification, testomania, broad field of corruption, inefficiency, degradation of teaching calls in economic, moral, intellectual, pedagogue and any other sense. You who criticized him today, I'll quote you. I'll list only some items of capital, the Law on textbooks, please for 20 years, and you opposition gentlemen have said it's a good law on textbooks, since it's been debated about that law. Dual education was introduced during Mr Verbic's, you won't say it wasn't, I'll list the schools it was introduced to. A small graduation, a question of doctoral studies arranged during Mr. Verbic's third term, the question of the dean's third term, was for the first time deaned only two mandates, there were deans for 20 years who had performed the post, the Law on Scientific Research and not to speak anymore. That's the answer you gentlemen gave for what you said today, the lies you made in this high house. There's a lot going on, some things are settled. We of this educational education system that we inherited must create such a system of education and education, especially targeted education and higher education, which will be the most profitable resource of progressive development of humanisation of society, which will quickly lead to the modernisation of Serbia for which we have defined ourselves, at least we from ruling parties. In order for the results to be better, it is necessary to see what the Ministry of Education has left us, Mr. Minister, what former ministers have left us, is it possible with its organisational structure to answer these questions of reform of education and education? Finally, it is necessary to analyse the expertise, competence and ability of professional services at the Ministry of Education, especially at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, because you and Mr Verbić have inherited really strange things. Here, I'm going to give an example, the chief or advisor, as they call it, for history is the man who finished his fiscultura. He's not the only one, there's a lot of them, so the predecessors brought it in, not to say how many unprofessional people are sitting there. Are the people in them capable of carrying out the heavy burden of reform that has to step by step? The burden of the crisis in education and education especially in higher education is sought by competent and mobile teams both at the Institute for Improving Education and Education, as well as at the Ministry of Education, but, gentlemen, teams at all universities in the state especially in the schools of philosophy, in the departments of pedagogical education at the Faculty of Philosophy, because they are in the nature of work in charge of a basic vision of education and education. Of course, elementary school and high school teachers are always there and always ready. If this isn't the way we're going, we're waiting for wandering, falling, wasting time, new sinks, new defeats, but gentlemen Members of Parliament, this time without a correctional exam. In a conversation with Mr. Minister Sarčević, I am a great optimist because I think he knows education and education very well, and not only that, but he has a vision, not only that, but also the desire to achieve that vision. In modern times, the era of the new technological era, of information technologies, it is necessary to prepare new curricula and programs in colleges before in primary and secondary schools, new didactic materials, new instruments of student evaluation, on purpose Mr. Minister, I say no evaluations, because the opposition gentlemen today have objected that parents cannot attend the evaluation. They don't distinguish value from grade. It's a matter of didactics, it's a little higher science than they think, because parents are very involved in the evaluation. I don't have time to explain it, what an evaluation is, what an evaluation is, and you've performed well in public as a real expert. Our education system, especially higher education, requires genuine reform and reconstruction at the level of the pedagogical revolution. Pedagoggy without borders is a traditional achievement and is a constant civilization achievement. This enables the openness of the university to all progressive courses of education and education, both in Europe and in the world, but with the condition that the imperative of critical evaluation and creative take on foreign ideas and models in its pedagogical practice is respected, which requires in some way that its pedagogical practice integrates the European dimension of education with us. During the crisis of transition and the crisis of education, there has been a real expansion of private education, especially private colleges in the past period, so that foreigners are also massingly opening their schools in our environment and individual foreign cultural centres dealing with education of our children and youth. That's not the problem. It is therefore necessary to study this issue faster and more studioly and offer educational and wider information to the general public and to give specific measures for a rational organisation of private education. We don't know until today, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, believe it or not, how many private outreach departments of individual universities we have. The previous ministers didn't know that either, because the situation was inherited. Not long ago, neither did the Ministry of Education. Most of the college's out-of-state departments worked without permission, believe it or not, and the inspection, what was she doing? I'll answer you, gentlemen. Nothing. Why nothing? Only four high school inspectors, but it's so set up in 2000. You know why? Not to do their job, high education so that they can do corruption in higher education in some way. In a conversation with the minister, he knows the problem well, and we're on the verge of really solving this in a very envious way. What higher education is best proven by an investigator's analysis. I'll quote it. To see Mr. Minister, those who criticize you today what they left behind. I quote – "in the previous regime teaching was held in cafes, factories, sports halls and bricks, rarely who had real classrooms, libraries and constantly employed professors". The completion of the quote, the report by the Ministry of Education Inspectorate, published "Politika" 4.8.2012. Gentlemen, your criticism is wrong. It's gone today. The law on higher education is inexorable and says that out-of-the-way departments must have permanent professors, past lecturers from primary schools. I quote another position of the inspectorate. Believe it or not, but it happened. I believe you'll be amazed. I quote: "The chief inspector from Banja Luka, says our inspector in Belgrade at the Ministry, has sent us to determine the facts because they have found 50 students of a private New Sad university who were taught in a pub. They seized the indices, but when they received an answer from that university that the students were there on a trip, they had to return them." It's a finished quote, head of inspection, 13.12.2011. Gentlemen of the former regime, you left it to us. The school's entry policy is out of date, on residual relations, and I agree with Mr. Professor. I'm having sex today in the principle debate with the views he's raised on the admission policy. For our country, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a strategic problem for a large number of students who have stopped or temporarily left school according to the old curricula and plan. Don't call them old students. That's an ugly name. They're students who study according to the old start-up curriculum and program. Studies have not been completed for various reasons, the economic, intricacies of professors so-called. The bauk of professors we were talking about. It's not true that there's only a bauk professor in one university. In all the cathedrals, at all the colleges in our country, the deans of college are responsible for it. It can't happen that out of 100 students the exam doesn't pass 95 the first time, the second time, the third time. Teachers like that don't belong in high school institutions. Gentlemen, I am speaking to you, it is my advice to you – leave the higher education institutions and go to another institution. Let me just say the following reasons are emotional reasons, family, health. According to the students, I'm one of the culprits for why the past law was extended because I worked with them and watched their indexes. They're good students with mahogany, and for various reasons they haven't finished. Dear ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Minister of Education sitting in this high house tonight, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development of our Assembly, we are today discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education to extend students under the old curricula for two years, but not only them, but also doctors and magistrates. Gentlemen, on Thursday, you'll get it both ways. We'll vote it out, I'll say it right now. However, I am now speaking to you, gentlemen of the students. You're going to finish your studies, be good experts and good citizens of our country, I'm sure when you get through the problems that have hit you right now. Study. You have a future ahead of you. If you want, you can really create great works, regardless of your age. Allow me, gentlemen, Members of Parliament, to tell you that nothing has been delayed, because the greatest minds in the world have been created in the late years. I'll list only three, four – Galileo Galileo, you know who was, astronomer, physicist, mathematician, finished his work at the 72nd year of life, which means it's not too late for our students; Markiz de Laplas finished his work "Heaven Mechanics" in 80 years of life; Viktor Igo in 72 years of life, Rovan93. Gentlemen philosophers, there are also you here, Plato, the fifth century before the new era, finished the "Laws" work in the 1980s, and began to create his best work "State" in the 60s. Often quoted Imanuel Kant was one of the best German philosophers, in 66 years of life he wrote "The Critic of the Power of the Trial". In his 89th year of life, Sophocles, the famous Athenian dramaturg staged "Edip on the Column". Ours, believe it or not, Vojin Smodlak, in his 90s, constantly perfected the values of physical culture and its connection to medicine. You, gentlemen of the students, have been given a chance. In the end, there is no success, gentlemen students, no hard work. I believe you'll work even better once your conditions are removed. That's what they're guilty of, your failure, and we're teachers. Because learning a student and a student number, putting letters into words, reading, writing, erasing, understanding, knowing, is just a small part of what the teacher really is. I don't say what the teacher does on purpose. Because being a teacher isn't a job. Being a teacher isn't like that. To be a teacher is to love, to be a teacher is to feel, to be a teacher is to be a teacher, believe it or not, just to be. Let me, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we'll all vote on Thursday to extend their studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3780	My fellow MPs, we're not at a concert. You're about to sing. A colleague of Boskovic's. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3781	Dear People's MPs, I think everyone knows which member I'm going to advertise, because it's very obvious. Therefore, Article 106 — the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I've listened to some of Mr. Atlagic's speeches from before and what I've noticed is that on every topic he can talk about how the prime minister's exposure is most amazing, etc., etc. And that's okay, even though it's turning off the topic. What makes me a little bit of an earful is that he and this one, and the previous one and that one used identical sentences. I wish he'd changed the order. I see the professor has a love for history, which is also quite fine. But we're not here to listen to any historical lectures. We were all at school, we were learning about it, so I would ask that we stick to the agenda, especially out of respect for guests from the Ministry of Education, who came here during the working day to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3782	Buddy, it's hard on us if everyone thinks like you do. A colleague Atlagic spoke about the problems the students had, which is why we continue to work on the old programme. As for the exposés, for those who earn, Mr Atlagic wanted to make it clear how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic are making important the system of higher education. I don't think that's funny. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3783	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3784	He can't do it by article 106 twice. You can only harm the Rules of Procedure to another member. In 106, your colleague has just advertised that he has been violated, so, therefore, you can't go twice on the same basis that you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Atlagic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3785	I'm referring to Article 103. Among other things, Section 8 states - the People's MP is obliged to use the time the MP used, abuse the right of the position, members, etc., to subtract from the total amount of time that belongs to his parliamentary group in the search. I suggest that they really take up time from the parliamentary group, because he has abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3786	I don't think there's any damage to the 108th attitude. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Tomislav Zigmanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3787	Thank you. I think it's time to go back to the scale of things and see what's going on with this bill. He wants to solve a complex and long-term problem, which affects a relatively large social group of young people, who, for various reasons, do not know exactly which, private, subjective or objective, extended their education, on the one hand. On the other hand, it tries to simplify enrollment, i.e. transition from one school year to another year, by cutting points. Of course, to praise the pro-active position of Mr. Minister, his willingness, as he said, to listen to the students' problems, to be cooperative and then to try to find a model to come out, first of all, to meet them. But what seems to me to be a problem, is that the legal solution, this complex and long-term problem, is trying to solve it simply, by extending years of study, and what I am more concerned about is the same way as it was several times backwards. In other words, the problem of inefficient study is trying to solve the possibility that time of study, i.e. Graduation, graduation, extension. In that sense, this legislative proposal could be named as a law passed, proposed, by momentum, and that there was no creativity. In fact, if this problem lasted since 2008, as we heard, it was expected that the problem should be approached in a more adequate way, to make efforts to look at all the objective reasons why this is happening, that the basis for this solution would be a more rational picture of what the number of students is, is there certain separations in the case of individual universities, is it unitary, is it worth all student groups, are social, humanistic sciences less permissive to students, are they natural or, in fact, mathematical? It is certain that such data, and I think it was enough time for them to be collected in some way, to be analytically explained, and then, accordingly, to try to find a solution that would be a little innovatively different. On the other hand, if the consequences of this law are what contributes to high consensus among all MPs is the fact that it will solve or try to solve, it will extend the possibility of one significant number of students who are young people, who are probably still pulling back on whether parents, whether spouses, closer relatives, and in that sense I think that we will make a happier, more satisfying, more significant group of young people, open up a perspective for them, support some hopes of achieving their life goals. However, again, as some other kind of consequence of this law, the fact that there are certain problems in higher education that the government should make efforts to create a more rational picture, especially when it comes to things relating to the length of the study. We now bring an extension, believe it or not for eleven years of those who study, which I think is even more than, in order to say problematicly, only in case there are some objective reasons or reasons that are highly justified. I also think that the solution to taking down points for passing to 48, I don't know what rational arguments are, who put it off if 60 is too high a scale when it comes to studies, why it's not 52 or 56. Twenty percent of the materials that are not passed, i.e. I don't think it's a relative amount of missed knowledge. That material is transferred to the second year. Does this mean that this solution will actually have a consequence that every two years we will bring new members of two, which will extend the time of study, i.e. Is this solution such that it will be, as you said, what of course we cannot believe the last. I'm afraid that through this kind of solution when it comes to the number of points that can be passed that solution will not be the ultimate, because the problem of the transfer of materials will arise. Unrealized results from previous years, cumulatively then can condition it further. In any case, I think it is more than clear that this legislative proposal will be adopted highly with agreement, as Mrs Komic said, the issue of health care, social education, higher education and general education is not questionable, there is high enpathy, especially for solutions that are aimed at positive outcomes, but I am afraid it is again some sort of simple solution that will not be in the function of creating permanent frameworks. For permanent solutions, we need more comprehensive images, more rational insights. We didn't have 4,000 students or 4,500 now. In the first opening speech you said there were 4,000 such students, someone later said 4,500, so we don't have a clear picture of what number of students are in that status. I think that universities are rational enough institutions to have a solid administration and that some kind of service, when it comes to at least facts, data, were more than capable of supplying you and then on that kind of analytical work, insights could bring solutions that would then be more complex, but that would try to solve what the law wants more lastingly. In that sense, I think that as a new minister, it might be some kind of good advice, not some kind of criticism, to try to make that kind of system within higher education that would result in shorter and more efficient study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3788	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3789	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act will be allowed students enrolled in school 2013/2014. A year to retain the possibility of funding from the budget another year after the end of the regular duration of the study. Students in school 2014/2015 the year, i.e. 2015/2016. A year of at least 48 points, they will have the right to rank as part of a total number of students whose studies are funded from the Republic's budget. The example works, today according to the Law on Higher Education, which is in line with the principles of the Bologna Process at the Faculty of Technology in Leskovec, there are three levels of studies in the framework of academic studies: basic academic studies, master of academic studies, doctoral academic studies. This university enrolls over 470 students. Leskovac's high-level professional school enrolled more than 1500 students. High-tech Leskovac School of Art, about 250 students are enrolled in basic vocational studies on the following programmes: textile technology, textile chemistry and environmental protection. The above-mentioned amendments and additions to the law should be adopted because problems in the application of this law cannot be solved in another way. When the Higher Education Act was adopted in 2005, our system of higher education consisting of the Resoring Ministry of the Higher Education Institute, but also students could not adapt immediately to the new way of organising, i.e. Bologna. We tried to solve the problems observed in the application of the law by amending the laws each year which mainly meant the exemption of certain situations from the general rules laid down by law, which is also the case this time. What was that about? Well, so that students do not suffer the consequences, because of the inability of the system to adapt immediately to the Bologna system, i.e. that the students are not victims of the slow adjustment of the Bolonji higher education institutions. Article 1 The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education is governed by the right of students studying under study programmes adopted prior to the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, pre-bolonical, to complete studies according to the started curricula and programme, the conditions and rights of studies that were in force at the time of enrolment. Students enrolled in basic studies will have the right to complete their studies by the end of school 2017/2018 at the latest. year, and students enrolled in integrated studies and fields of medical science until the end of school 2018/2019. A year. The existing provision of Article 124(3) of the Law establishing the right of students enrolled in the first year of primary studies in school 2006/2007. the year until 2012/2013. the year to be financed from the budget for the longest year following the expiry of the regular study is changed for the purpose of determining that right and that for students enrolled in the first year of primary studies, finalises with the enrolled school 2013/2014. A year. The rights of the present Bologna generations, which is the exception of the general rule, we also give to the next generation. Article 3 lays down the right of students to finance themselves from the budget in the following year if they are in school 2014/2015. the year, i.e. 2015/2016. a year of at least 48 points and is ranked as part of a total number of students whose studies are financed from the budget in accordance with the Law, which is an exception from Article 88 of that Law. The rights that students had all previous years and which is an exception to the general rule we extend for the following year. Those amendments should be adopted in order to improve the efficiency of the higher education system and to address the problems in the application of the Higher Education Act, taking into account the fact that the National High Education Council has considered the issue of the needs of these amendments and additions and has given an opinion that has been adopted in full. Given the fact that a new Law on Higher Education will soon be adopted, which should not have any shortcomings that exist and that we have corrected each year, which mainly entailed an exemption from the general rules laid down. Which is why at least 48 points, not 60 as a limit for obtaining the right of students to rank within the existing budget quota. Because the study programmes are not adapted to the burden of students predicting the Bologna system. Our study programmes are more extensive than anticipated and therefore the limit for gaining the right to rank within the existing budget quotas is lowered from 60 to 48. We admit that our 48 are like European 60. What is the reason why the right of students to maintain their status for another year after the completion of the regular deadline foreseen for the completion of the study? Because we have admitted that our study programmes are more extensive than European programmes. If the student runs out of status for enrollment in the following year with at least 48 points, he stays at a maximum of 12 points each year. When all of this is summed up for all four years of study, it may remain 48 points after the regular deadline for completion of the study is completed. That's another year of study, because we've already admitted that we have a normal load of 48 points per year. In the end, in voting day, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3790	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3791	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I want to say, first of all, that as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party, I will support a motion to amend this law, because I think it is human to meet students who have not finished college so far to finish this thing and to take a significant step towards their future. What I have to look back on in my student address is that today in Serbia they finally have a certain perspective, have a certain future and that shows one of the parameters. We were the country that was absolutely the first in Europe by 2011, 2012, and in 2013 for the unemployment of young people. Em, which this government, led by Aleksandar Vukic, managed to do something that no one in 30 years failed to do, to reduce unemployment at last in Serbia, we also managed to reduce unemployment when it comes to young people. In 2015, the percentage of youth employment was 16%, today is 19.7% and this shows clearly one upward path when it comes to youth employment, and without whose employment, I say again, there is no better future and there is no perspective Serbia. I call on students, and I believe that my fellow MPs will agree with it, that this is probably the last time we have to extend the deadline for the end of the study, although I already don't know how many times, eight, nine or ten times, and that this is probably the last time we have to do it. Now we're going to meet the students, give them a chance to finish college and find their happiness in Serbia. I am convinced that what this government does and what you do as a minister and that your plans are such that young people will keep in Serbia, that the policy of this government is such that it allows young people a clear and secure perspective, that it is not the policy that drives them out of here and that it is the policy of the future, the future that we all believe in together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3792	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3793	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, dear students, your references have led you here so that I am safe, I have listened to what you say, your commitment and the energy of this reform, that you will carry them out until the end. That's what I'm convinced of. For starters, what I would say is, if 12,000 students have an appeal to help them, of course we'll help them. The students are our elites in the future, and helping them means a higher percentage of highly educated people. Every reform begins with higher education. We are certainly followed by reforms at all levels of education. What I would most like to point out is, first of all, that of the nine political goals in the exposé of Mr. Vukic, our prime minister, is one of the most important, has priority, which is education and science. Bravo. Why does it matter? Because the goal, first of all, is accessibility, justice, equality. This is a country of equal opportunities, an open, democratic country, and it's really important that we show it on this case. If someone studied and came to an end, and there's no way to end it, and why wouldn't they help him by giving him another year? We'll do it necessarily. Secondly, as for students who end up according to the Bologna model, of course we're going to cut the number of points, it's something minor, from 60 to 48, because nothing changes in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's the same number of students. So, yeah, we'll do that, too. Now I'd like to say something about donors. Much has been invested in reforms in the Republic of Serbia. There's an extraordinary shift. Of course, this was attended by the European Investment Bank, a lot of donors, the World Bank, and they are very pleased with the results. What needs to be done, or done in order to be much less illiterate, is to include a vulnerable population. In this sense, I'm thinking of Roma, so, to engage with the Roma. We were lucky that two, three, four days ago in this same high house was a public debate and with the theme "Inclusion of Roma and Roma women in the Republic of Serbia", a strategy was made, the government made the strategy with the help of the OSCE and this strategy began in 2016 and will be completed in 2025. I am sure, since there is an Action Plan and a Monitoring Group, experts, that by including Roma and implementing this strategy and the 2025 Action Plan, illiteracy will be at some level below 1%, if not completely eradicated from the Republic of Serbia. What I would point out is that our friends who have invested a lot of money in reform and education of the Republic of Serbia have proposed another level of education, which is dual education. I think it's extremely good, because it's one thing to finish college, and the other to be operational, to be a manager. I think it's a great example of practice. Besides, on their case, it turns out that when we have dual education, the unemployment rate drops by 10%, excellent. As for the deployment of educated people in the Republic of Serbia, they are kind of concentrated, which is logical, in higher cities where universities are, so the highest percentage, I wanted to say intellectuals, not, but people with higher education, intellectualism is something else, intelligence is something else, in the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade, and it is mostly preceded by Vracar, Stari Grad, Sava Venac, New Belgrade. One of the municipalities in Nis is also Mediana, known for its highly educated people. We also have a low percentage of education mainly in southern Serbia, central Serbia, a little less western Serbia, so Rekovac, Osecina, Gadjin Han, Razanj. I think this situation will improve with these reforms. What is very important, it should be noted that Belgrade was on a scale of 20 top cities until 20 years ago, perhaps just before. I am sure that by the end of the strategy, by 2020, perhaps some years later, Belgrade will regain the status of an ideal city to study, have that reference, that potential and that kind of quality. He'll be one of the most prestigious universities, as far as I'm concerned. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be, and that's how the mass of students from all over the country will come to us. Here we are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I am very pleased that Novak Djokovic's Foundation, as well as the Development Bank and UNICEF, have proposed that education in the Republic of Serbia, with education, begin early childhood. Well done for that proposal. Of course the SNS will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3794	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3795	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to thank Mr. Minister, as I am coming with KIM, which he found first and foremost to visit Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Minister, the people will never forget that. I bring you greetings from most KIM citizens for what you've done. You have visited everything you have been able to visit, from the Student Centre, through many educational institutions, kindergartens, and I as a health care worker, I am particularly pleased that you also visited the new University of Medicine Dean, whose opening was attended by Prime Minister Vukic. You've visited him in the company of a dean worthy of running such an institution. This is another proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, is taking care of its people in KIM, giving them peace and security. I had to say this, and now I'm going to be very brief. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which contains only the appearance of minor changes in five members, is important for at least two reasons. First, the government and the Ministry of Education, on the basis of their overall needs, have, on their part, considered and suggested that the old students of basic studies should be extended to graduates, given the number of those who burden their studies with this educational system, and on the other hand, to eliminate the need that appeared here and there in public, that the chance for an extension should be given to students under the Bologna programme, because at many high school institutions they have already used that right. Namely, the first generations that studied under the programme used the basis to study twice the number of years prescribed in the programme, and students under the Bologna programme could receive an additional year at their own request. At the same time, the proposal to amend Article 124, paragraph 3 of the Law gives students, who are enrolled for the first year of basic studies since school 2006, 2007 at the end of 2013, in 2014 to retain the right to finance the maximum year of their regular duration from the budget. Exceptionally from the provisions of Article 88 of the Law, a student may be financed from the budget in the following year, if, in the year 2014, 2015 and 2015 respectively, the school achieves at least 48 points and is ranked within the total number of students whose studies are financed from the budget in accordance with the law. I believe that the amendments to the law of the Ministry of Education and the Government are quite justified, because another possibility is given to those who for any reason have failed to achieve regularity in the studies, and to provide this opportunity as an incentive for the completion of studies, i.e. for greater efficiency in the study, and thus the possibility of obtaining certain academic knowledge. What is very important is that these changes be adopted in time for higher education institutions to agree their acts with this law within the next three months and that students have a clearer situation for enrollment next year. In view of the fact that these amendments do not require the allocation of additional funds from the budget, since these funds will be within the framework of a limit set for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in the coming years. I support this proposal, which is also the position of our parliamentary group, with the confidence that it will contribute to the kind of clearing up of the number of students that will be allowed to complete studies in accordance with the provisions of this law. I would like to add that this calls for the urgency of the procedure for these reasons, and I am not inclined to have anyone want to approach this issue in a rational and meaningful way, for these amendments extends the topic to other issues, including alternatives to the amended competences of the National Education Council, as the Council at its meetings of 22 June and 14 September this year supported these changes and fully adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3796	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljupka Mihajlovska, and let the MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3797	Dearly respected colleagues and colleagues, dear past, present and future students, the 2005 Higher Education Act was adopted with the aim of a serious and thorough reform of higher education in Serbia, with the aim of establishing a competitive and coherent higher education with higher education in the European area. The law is based on the text of the Bologna Declaration. The Bologna Declaration is actually a set of principles and values for this reform to rest on. It is one text that stands on two sides of A4 formats and is not forced and planted by any document. Serbia has virtually defined itself, not obliged to reform the system of higher education. However, we listen that Bologna in Serbia, unfortunately, has failed. What remains unclear is whether we speak with regret or boast of it, or whether we recognize that the Bologna system has failed, we want to say that it is practically not good, so we did not even try to end things properly or rebuke the academic community at the head of the Ministry of Education, which is evident? Of course, as a result of this failure, it remained correct instead of preventive action, and it is most often more expensive and less effective than preventive action, so we have a law that we changed more than five times, complemented the various members, and even after 11 years, we have no solution for students who entered universities before 2005. What does that tell us? It tells us that, unfortunately, even this government, as the Ministry of Education began, was not involved in the work of this government, nor was it before it. It's gone wrong in everything. Distance learning, which is also foreseen by this law, remains science fiction. It has failed in all things, except in competition for European projects and in the amount of realised projects and funds received, but unfortunately not in the results these projects have achieved. Today, we have no record of the number of those students covered by this law. Different figures and numbers were heard here, however, the University of Belgrade has data that it is somewhere over 20,000 students only at this university, from which between 12,000 and 15,000 are being conducted as active, according to the indicator, from time to time the exams reported. We have no record of the structure of those students. Whether there are over 10 years of work experience among them, so they may not want to continue studies, whether there are those who are extremely poor, sick, those who have founded families, single mothers, etc. I don't want to pick it up? Is it possible that higher education institutions don't have the resources to solve this issue? You know, when you enroll in a private foreign language school, and you don't come to one class, they call you to see what's going on, offer you discounts, motivate you to move to the next level, etc., and what do our higher education institutions do? This was also about the social dimension of higher education. Someone mentioned availability, justice, discrimination, etc. It's not fair that students who haven't arrived for any reason, I'm not going to go into it, to complete the studies, to enable and extend the permanent deadline. When we talk about fairness, we should look at who the students in the Republic of Serbia are, and does higher education really be available to everyone as guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Are only those whose parents can pay for it in Serbia? So according to the Euro Student project, parent education of primary academic students is such that 40% has completed higher education, 51% high school, while students whose parents have acquired only primary education have only half a percent. When it comes to the interests of the student population's parents, the following data were obtained: managers, managers, managers, professionals, engineers and professional associates, totaling over 50%, while students whose parents carry out craft jobs are only 6%, and those whose parents have only 5.4%. If this compares with the structure of employees in the total population according to the 2011 census, we will see 13% doing craft jobs, agricultural and similar 12%, while management jobs perform only 2.5%. We see clearly here that those whose parents do low-paid jobs have a significantly less chance of being part of higher education. Socioeconomic factors should by no means be an obstacle to education and it is necessary to bring a strategy that will look back on the social dimension and create such a system where the structure of the student population will reflect the structure of the overall population in Serbia. For the end, I'd like to point out two things. We often point out that students are under-motivated, that the level of the conquered cities for the passing grade is nowhere near what once existed, etc. But we forget that many of the respected professors do not have adequate pedagogical and methodical and educational skills that are not actually a condition to obtain the calling of a regular professor. We also have to bear in mind that these students who come to higher education schools have completed some primary and secondary schools that have been taught by some teachers, teachers, teachers, and who have been educated in higher education institutions, so that the product we get in the form of students we actually created in higher education institutions. One more thing I also want to point out is that we have neither economic nor economic progress as long as we ignore our greatest resource, and these are our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3798	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3799	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, esteemed and respected fellow Members of Parliament, it is a fact that our higher education in the last ten years has suffered numerous changes and additions in order to improve the efficiency of the higher education system. It's also a fact that a lot of changes go in favor of students, but there are also things that have to change, some figuratively speaking in walking, because they're generated by the living reasons you talked about by the ministers in the opening presentation. Some things have to change in the long run and planically, and that's what you're talking about. This applies, of course, to the new Law on Higher Education. The aim of the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, which is on the agenda today, is to help students first and foremost, and they are not a small number, 12,000 as we have heard, to retain their status as regular students or to retain the possibility of funding education from the budget. By adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law, we do not intend to go hand in hand to those students who want to study indefinitely, who do not want to learn and who do not want to fulfil their obligations, and yet want to retain certain privileges. All of this applies primarily to students who are at the end of their studies, who are regularly committed to their duties and who will have a responsible approach to society in general after completing their studies. In this case, the professional public has said so, so that we have a broad consensus to amend the law. By adopting the proposed amendments and by supplementing the laws, Benefit will have both students and states and society as a whole, because the size of the materials and the complexity of individual study groups, with no ill intention of dividing the colleges into easy and difficult imposes such a need that simply students should meet and allow them so-called. budget status with a smaller number of points, that's 48 of the maximum 60 per year of study. I must also point out that this government is headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic and the Resort Ministry that as many of our children who are on education are financed from the budget, which is extremely commendable and will be very helpful to students, but also to their parents and families. Of course, this government is also seeking to improve our education system, because we really want to have quality and professional personnel. In the end, I would like to support the position of my parliamentary group regarding students of master's and doctoral studies. I think they should have the same status when it comes to deadlines for the completion of their postgraduate and doctoral studies, as will students of basic studies. In voting day, SNS and I will support these amendments to the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3800	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3801	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Mr. Minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is now up in this assembly house, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education. The constitutional basis of this law is contained in the fact that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides between itself and the education system. The reason for this supplement is considered to be that it is the adoption of the 2005 Higher Education Act, which has already undergone certain changes and complements in order to improve the efficiency of the higher education system, and now needs to be re-edited in the fields which speak of the deadlines and in the areas of finance, i.e. financing of studies from the budget, and at the end of the regular study period. These changes seek first and foremost to extend the maturity deadline for two years for old students with medicine, which would increase the deadline by three years. These changes should allow students of master and doctoral studies to successfully complete their started studies. Very often, studies have been extended for various life reasons and circumstances. Now, with this change, if they want to, they can finish their studies in two years, graduate, and I believe that a lot of them will certainly take this opportunity. The National Council for Higher Education at the outset was not about giving old graduates an extended deadline to bring their studies to a successful conclusion. The fact is that there was resistance by the university, but fortunately a consensus was reached between the ministry, the university and student desires. Consensus has been reached that students who entered the first year of their studies in 2006 to 2014 can retain the right to study on the budget one year after the end of the regular study period. The students of the first generation of Bologna have already used their right to many higher education institutions to study which lasts twice as many years of the student programme and that they have already received this extended year of education in the budget on their own request. But if they now accepted a request to extend the deadline to generations that were later entered, this would mean one discrimination against students who had already re-enlisted and continued their studies. Some exams have been admitted, and some have been later received in new programs. As for the realization of passed exams, only 10% of students score all 60 points. Because of such a small number of governments that it would not add to the financial burden on students, it accepted the proposal that the lower funding limit from next year's budget be 48 points. The colleges were given the opportunity to self-initiately determine the number and time limits for passing exams. It is very commendable that a group of students of different universities have been formed to propose to the ministry what should be changed by their assessment in the current Law on Higher Education. The work on amending the document has already begun and the number of proposed solutions will depend on whether a new law will be found in the procedure or will go on to change the existing one. In today's discussion, I cannot mention a modern educational and scientific institution whose growth is modelled by the European system of university education, and this institution is the Faculty of Pedagogues in Sombor. Its basic work is education, and the key basis of future university development is to improve the student programme, basic masters and doctoral studies. In 2013, this university was accredited to carry out teaching on the following programs, on: basic studies for teachers, educators, media designers in education and librarians. He also has a master's degree in academic studies and doctoral academic studies. In the first year, only 131 students were enrolled, and 63 students await the Assembly's decision to amend this law to continue their studies. Just a few more words to say that the Faculty of Pedagogues in Sombor was part of the University of Novi Sad and continued the tradition of the education of Serbian teachers in Sombor, which began on 1 May 1778, when Avram Razovic, the son of the priest then established the norm of the first institution for the education of folk teachers in the Serbian language, in the Hasbury monarchy. After shutting down this school, in 1811, 1812, the First Serbian Preparandia was formed, which is located in St. Andrija from 1812 to 1816 and was relocated to Sombor in 1816. Preparandija was renamed the Sombor State Teacher School in 1920, and now this institution has the title of the Faculty of Teachers and in 2006 it was named the Faculty of Pedagogue in Somboro. The Faculty of Pedagogues in Sombor marks this year 200 years since the transfer of preparandia to Sombor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3802	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Jasmina Nikolic, you have one minute only. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3803	Thank you. I didn't count on having this time from the MP's group. I'll use it to thank Mr. Minister for his answer to the questions I've asked about the adverse consequences of the law. And I'm going to ask you to, if you can explain to the MPs -- what would be the adverse consequences, i.e. On what grounds would the students sue the state? Since you said there was a lot of such announcements. So, what basis would it be for students to sue the state, which is obviously a harmful consequence, so if we can hear from you an explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3804	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3805	I can send you those memos. They were represented by some lady, I mean, Vesna from Vranj, a lawyer. They called for the right to study, which should be realized, and it was denied that year because of the delays in college. Now, would that be a college lawsuit, then through college? I know that, all the lawsuits that go to school, say, there are a lot of these cases, eventually the salaries of the state. Now, whether it was that director, who misrepresented the procedure or somewhere on the local self-government, there's no paid transportation, so people are suing, so the interest piles up, it objectively exists. If I may, when I took the word, Mr. Krivokapic gave an explanation, what I wanted to give, when it comes to those students who first started in Bologna. So that law couldn't have changed. He is already in his Article 94nd position 2. They may, on a personal request, extend. The second question is, how many people are going to make money now, that's the question that we're going to control and monitor, that there's no abuse in money by college. And I will agree with you only on the fact that in Serbia the autonomy of the university is too broadly understood, and we will, when we start to do that, meet together withkonus and Konus and all the important people, really come from the question of who is funding who? Do we have any power other than through money or are we going to have people agreeing on what is the interest of students and society? I think we'll make a deal, if we need to be very thorough and consistent, and we'll find a solution. For now, we've found them in this first stage. My colleagues, I apologize. It was Tomislav. We really didn't have time to do it more studioically, smarter, and more inclusively to suggest something. We'll just do it now. We bought some time. I now, all the time we're talking, I only imagine that I was rigid and that I continued the policy of my predecessor and his advisors and that if I had gotten away with it, we would have really people on the street and rightly so. I didn't respond to that populist response. We were really looking for an object solution for that teat. I've heard so many discussions tonight that really are one support, and to share some impressions is a little sweet, it's a little bitter. Really. I repeat, I have said many things to them, which you have not learned, but we are in the situation in which we are. If it's going to get better in 20 months, I won't wait 20 months to be a minister if someone obstructs the co-operation of the law, etc. But I think I've learned to be effective in my life. Just one more sentence. I don't like to be long. There was one question, it was about the state's address and helping the best students. You know that somewhere around 1,200 students are very well scholarshipd, the scholarship is very high for Serbian conditions and that it is for 800 students in the country, 400 abroad and that even for master and doctoral studies, serious funds are allocated in value while a doctorate is held between six and 10,000 euros, depending on the university, and also about 70% of those people who are scholarshipd by our country are employed in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3806	Thank you. You can't. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I replica?]] On what grounds? The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3807	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected students, what has no dilemma is that in the day of voting, the SNS will support amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. My colleagues from the SNS today spoke in large numbers about amendments and additions to the law, and I will focus only on those elements, i.e. those arguments that make it necessary to support these amendments and amendments of the law. The first argument to support the amendments and additions to the law is that the focus of this law puts the students' interest in completing their initial studies under the pre-started programme for a school year, i.e. in the next two years if they study in medical science studies. Another reason why this law should be supported is to amend and supplement this law in no way affect the quality of educational and educational work in higher education institutions. The third reason why this law should be supported is that it does not in any way require additional material resources from the RS budget because it is clear to all of us that these students who are extending the deadline for completion of the study are actually self-financed students. One of the reasons why this law should be supported is the economic aspect of why highly educated people and how they contribute to the country's social economic development, that is, the social economic development of Serbia and economic growth. Along with improving the social economic situation in our society, it is certain that the percentage of people who have completed higher schools will contribute to reducing poverty, and for this reason this law is also significant from a social point of view. I must also point out that during the preparation of amendments and additions to this law, you have shown high responsibility in terms of smoothing one partner relationship with all relevant institutions and, of course, with students. I hope that by your experience you will contribute to the reform of our entire education because certainly education should be approached in one system way in all its segments, starting from preschool to higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3808	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3809	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I carefully followed the full-day discussion on the subject ahead of us and carefully read the stenogram we received during the day, trying to repeat in my mind what I thought, reading, that I did not understand correctly from the opening address of the minister. Somewhere, roughly speaking, we agreed here that both the consequences of the transition society and the social, unforgiving but justifiable circumstances have been broken across the area of higher education and, of course, to students as a center and as someone for which there is a higher education. But we in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina can't agree and we don't understand some of the arguments that have been made here and which, I say, I have carefully tried to find and read in my stenogram, believing that they may have been missed and unintended mistakes, but they turned out not to be. In fact, we cannot accept the fact that the proposer, or the highest executive body in the state of Serbia, stood by these proposals in such a way as to discriminate against one group of students, of course, as well as many of my colleagues, here I think of pre-Bolonian magistrates and PhDs, who, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, made it possible to have, on equal terms, an extension of the study period or study years. A team before you, Mr. Minister, are the elders of this organ. So, your job is basically to make sure that everyone under the same conditions can study, and I really have to say that I expected more arguments in your discussion, I would say, and in an academic way, as it would be appropriate for this one debate, and not that almost all day, I am free by my personal conviction to assess, more to defend myself by silentness than you have discussed with the MPs. It's not acceptable for us to have your arguments that you've found yourself in a time seal. You may have come to the Ministry yesterday, but the Ministry doesn't exist since yesterday. You complained, as I understand and read, about the number of perpetrators and employees who should be your first round of expert associates, but I'm also sure there's an army of professionals in the Ministry who worked for many years before you came to the Ministry and who would have all this information that you've been looking for and who you said needed time, and so did the mentioned lawyer of Mrs. Vranja, as you yourself said, that within 24 hours you could have received all the necessary information from your fellow professionals from the Ministry, because it's their job to know and receive the salary. Also, when you came to the Ministry, you, Mr. Minister, didn't come to the movies, expecting, perhaps, some unknown content, that you don't know what movie awaits you. You have come to the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in such an area that is difficult and essential for the development of every society, a base for the development of every society. The excuse that you are new to us in the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina is also not an understanding, because you are not in the period of adaptation, like when children go to kindergarten, but you must know exactly what work you expect to do and what I could conclude from the exposé we have heard here for hours, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a full pair, very energetically, is moving into the reform process in all areas. So the information that made you the argument that made you come in, as you said, into that teat or time seal, according to us, don't stand. What I am sure is that your colleagues from the Ministry were also able to explain and help you, since you had no previous experience in this function, are procedural things, which is – how legal regulations are proposed, or legal interventions in the National Assembly. Here you are referring to the Higher Education Council and saying, "The Higher Education Council had no legal basis, as he gave us in the memo, that they would enter this category too." We're talking prebolonic magistrates and doctors. You further say, "So today, and the amendments and everything else that the Assembly has right, we couldn't, as a proposer, put in place, if we respect an institution like the High Education Council." The Council is not an institution, but is an advisory body, which does not mean that you should pass by and bypass their opinion, but, if you, as I could conclude from some of your arguments, did not agree with this, overvoted, let's say, the Council's position, you could have indicated this as a Council's position, not to change your decision and direct us, to the MPs, this proposal for legal intervention with an absolutely discriminatory attitude towards a number of students. What I particularly want to point out is that, given that I am from your gesticulation, approving certain expectations that a new law on higher education is expected, so I realized that this is going to happen, I would like to ask you best to not take all the criticisms that come from the MPs personally and not personalize them, because we have heard here and that you are grandfathers, that you are not hypocrites, that some of us here are hypocritical, etc. I fully believe that your new experience in the ministerial post is also carrying some nice things, such as school visits, colleges, and it's perfectly natural, where people probably have a lot more smiles than here and with some more loving relationship, but you have to seriously arm yourself with arguments when you come to the National Assembly, that we really cross those arguments and that it breaks everything from your arguments when you're discussing with the MPs, not that we really get the impression that you're defending yourself with silence. When it comes to students in particular, we're here, I guess you've all figured that out somewhere, on the same side. So no one had a reserve according to the need to extend their study period, but we had a reserve on how someone who cared about equal conditions and student standards could propose such a measure and legal intervention to discriminate on a number of students. That's what's inadmissible. I'm saying, I believe that colleagues from the Ministry, where I'm sure there are many armies of professionals, regardless of the change in political structure, could have explained these procedures very well. So please, again, given that I had the impression that on several occasions you were listening and commenting on the criticism of the opposition, that you would not do it further, because none of it would be good and not allow yourself, given that you were in an extremely sensitive area, we are all parents here, or at least most of us, that you would not allow yourself to fall into that trap, as has happened to some of your colleagues who were sitting in your seat in the previous days, and that you would treat the National Assembly and us MPs as some alternate station where you come in, expecting that the debate would end very quickly and that the lunch period would end that discussion. I realized that you may not have been in a hurry, but that you were expecting, since you first engaged in the discussion only after nearly five hours of discussion, at 3:45 p.m., as it stands in the stenographic note, and your first remark was that you did not expect a five-hour debate on several interventions that you proposed. We were expecting it. Every time I look forward to the minister, we can talk about what we create as a legislative framework in any area, and tomorrow you have to do it. So I'm asking you not to fall into that trap to view parliament as a side stop, not to fall into that trap, as we could hear from some of your colleagues, that they're used to working and we're just talking. It is our job to do this and to think together about how we regulate all areas in the Republic of Serbia and, if there is an understanding, and I hope that there will be an amendment to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, which concerns equal extension, i.e. the creation of conditions and pre-bolon magistrates and doctorates to extend the study deadline, or, as some colleagues have said, any amendment, ultimately, which will integrate such content into an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3810	Mr. Minister, you have the right to the final word after the hearing has been concluded. The word has a National MP Bosko Obradovic, four minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3811	Thank you, esteemed chairman, bringing this end to ours, I would say, a fruitful and good debate on this extremely important subject, I would like to perhaps draw a few conclusions that, of course, come from the corner of the Dveri Parliamentary Group and may be something that can, of course, only start some serious talks, when we hope, the minister will keep his promise and bring to this Assembly a much more serious, reformed law on higher education. I don't think I heard it here today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia some great defenders and advocates of the Bologna Reform of our higher education. All the criticism they heard about Bologna was not a lot of those who reported to defend it. I hope that this is good news that we have a consensus on the fact that Bologna has not fulfilled its role and mission and that Bologna should definitely and thoroughly reform itself and that these fundamental changes and additions to the Law on Higher Education will just go in the direction of correcting all the irregularities that the Bologna reforms have brought to our higher education. The other thing that I hope, I suppose, has been reached by consensus, so that this should not be done is that certain institutions of this society and of the state are acting according to the proposals of legal solutions, as in this case have been done by colleges that have started enrolling senior students under the proposal of this law. We're not insulting anyone, we're just realizing that the law is being broken. No authority in the state of Serbia can comply with any law, as universities in Serbia started enrolling students as if we had passed this law 20 days ago, and we still haven't passed it. So I hope that the ruling majority will not resort to this creative interpretation of the legal system in the future and that we will no longer act in the state of Serbia until the laws have entered into force, this should be the second conclusion of today's debate. The third thing I think is extremely important, I'm not Mr. Minister, somehow still attending this debate all day, I've managed to figure out what your position is about discrimination on certain students, so I'm asking you to give us such a direct answer to that question in your closing statement. You've respected one category of students here, those students who enrolled studies under the old system, before the adoption of the 2005 Higher Education Act, and we all said that. And we all agree, and that's not controversial. But they have two other categories of students that I didn't understand what your position was, and we're saying they have to be respected too, so there's no discrimination. The first are students who have enrolled in postgraduate studies, therefore, who are still in master's and doctoral studies and who, I didn't understand you, will be able to, or won't be able to complete their studies, or will also be extended to them. Please make it clear and loud on your part, regardless of whether or not we know. The second concerns also the discriminated category, I have already mentioned the letter, I can read more in the end now and more detail, as regards students who have enrolled under the Bologna system in 2006, the seventh, eighth, and who are also discriminated that colleges make decisions to force them to re-enter studies, namely additional cost payments. Why not get an additional deadline for completing the study when they entered later than these students in 2006. So they're younger students, so to speak, and they don't have the right to extend studies, unlike these older ones who have that right. So, simply that discrimination should not be done. My conclusion in that sense is that, you ministers may be new, but the government is not new. This is the Government of Continuity of the SNS, which has been trampling out for the fifth year of government in this country, and it is obvious that the SNS does not know what to do with our education, so that the government gave our education to the Srdjan Verbić, so it is not satisfied, so now it gives you from the private education sector counting on you to solve as Mr Zukorlic will solve because education is probably so important for the SNS to encourage your coalition partners by giving them congregation education committees. You show so much how important education is to you when you share it in coalition schemes and combinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3812	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3813	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister with Associates, what we have left to conclude is to return first of all the money for doctoral studies, especially for those who are three years old, or those who have already paid their year, if the amendment is adopted, whether the money will be returned to them. So that's one thing that's very important to everyone who's already given a large sum of money. If we're going to adopt the amendment, I think we will. Gordana Comic wrote the amendment for graduates, and I think we agreed less on it and agreed that there would be no problem. We've arranged for students who've enrolled in the old system to extend their deadline to two years. We think it's fair because they're not guilty of high school chaos and we think it's a good opportunity to let them know once again that the state is thinking about them even though she was herself involved in an inaction when it comes to higher education reform. I think it's fair to meet them. Also, when it comes to bolognas, those who have enrolled in Bologna's studies, the requisition pricer, is such that the test alone costs 3,000 dinars. Then the reusing costs up to 110,000 dinars. Then, the new index, everything that goes with the administration, it comes out at 150,000 dinars. So a few thousand of them will remain discouraged. We may permanently lose them, people who have acquired them fairly, who may be half, literally one semester left to finish their studies. Now we have a situation where we're going to let their colleges take their money again in front of our eyes, that their parents are taking expensive cash loans again, and you know very well how unfavourable they are among the most unfavourable cash loans in Europe, these are in Serbia. Not to mention, it's a monthly expense for parents or for a student who works and studies. Well, he can't make it through the bologna to finish college. We have a home, we have a place, we have a lot of life costs, we have a directorship, so, at a monthly level not so small, we have parents who don't work, who are paying, we have some pensioners who are cutting pensions. So, in the atmosphere where the population is really poor, we have a situation where we can save a few thousand of them with one amendment, regardless of what's funny, it's not funny, it's life, because I think we need to put a man first, and these are young people. I think it is very important for us all to be aware that it is not about anyone, it is about the youth of Serbia that is largely leaving this country. Our knowledge is going away. Young people with strength and courage are leaving us. Young leaders are leaving us. Let's help at least 2000 of them, about as many as there are, to extend their studies for at least one semester, because they need it so much. A few times, I've received hundreds of letters, believe me, a few points, someone's missing ten, someone's 12 now, and I can't remember anymore, but it's very important to meet them, because I don't think it costs us anything. You know why? If we take the cost of leaving or stopping studying, it's much bigger, even in a material sense, than our cost to provide them or allow them to extend one or two semesters by one amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3814	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3815	One more sentence apologizes. To allow them to complete their studies because it is fair, to put everything in one plane and not to be discriminated against under this first law that you have adopted as a new minister, excuse the proposal, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3816	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3817	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the People's Peasants' Party and farmer, I find it difficult to speak with this much attention now, and the other after the academic gromada is very difficult to speak. Here in my direction, they make me laugh. I see, none of his colleagues laughed, we all took it seriously, most likely that Bislimismeaja. I understand the need of certain colleagues whose parties changed the leaders, and when they brought this last one, we were looking forward to the early morning hours. So they brought a good leader. I understand that someone has the need to frequent their performances, especially on the subject of higher education, approach their leader, because there has been a change, so there are struggles for a position within the party, as a man who has been party-determined since 1989, 1990, I fully understand that, especially when I know that his leader has studied for 13 years. Then special attention should be given to this law because it allows these students who have not finished college to finish it anyway, so perhaps one of them will study for 13 years, perhaps one of them so talented, an expert. You know what the condition is for retirement, you know what the minimum condition is? Fifteen years. So their leader was missing two years to retire as a student. So, how am I supposed to talk now after a representative of a former regime party who has such a talented leader who's studied for 13 years? Look, for two years, he was short of getting a pension, and from there he jumped to be the secretary of defense. Now he calls me Bislimi and says that I should have understanding because when you study for 13 years, then you throw 35,000-euro watches, etc., and then you talk about morality. Socrates said - I know I don't know anything. Here, I'll admit it. When he could confess to the great Socrates, why wouldn't I confess? I know I don't know anything. There is another saying: that what we know is a drop in the sea of ignorance. Here, I'll admit it, but I've been listening here all along to lectures on higher education and I realized that who knows he doesn't know something. That was Confucius. I mean, I can't do what's hard to get a two in High School, I mean, after them when I talk, I get a little confused. I think Confucius was. Who knows he doesn't know something, but who doesn't know he doesn't know, he's dangerous. I think he said that, but, well, I didn't press that two in Belgrade high school, so I went to some mechanical technical school in India. I may not be as talented as the previous speaker, but I think the system has to be a strict education. Let's let the people finish when they started, when they could have these leaders, watch out, their vice president studied for 12 years. I guess that's why only the vice president was, because he studied for a short year and didn't reach 13 years and couldn't be president of the former regime, but he was vice president, and then he started making yogurt, so I don't know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3818	Interesting comparison.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3819	... He didn't get an apartment in Vienna for 12 years studying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3820	Come back, please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3821	I'm back. A man learned to make yogurt, of which in six months he couldn't buy an apartment in Vienna. He probably took off his dick after 12 years of studying and 16 years of public sector work. Well, that's how we took the sermons, and that's why I say that the system has to be strict, it has to be applicable. Knowledge is a special mathematical operation. I didn't get that, the heavy-tempered two in the Third Belgrade High School, but I know it's a mathematical operation. Here, the minister will agree. Knowledge is best multiplied by division. That's why it's a mathematical operation. Knowledge you don't share is bad. Imagine a man who knows a lot, don't let God die. I always wonder when some wise man, a wise professor, is no longer a party to the former regime, it's long gone, when he dies, I always wonder, I'm sorry for the man, but I'm even sadder if his knowledge isn't passed on to another generation. When I learn something, I'm the only one looking forward to it, and when I teach someone next to me or more of them next to me, then he looks forward to us more, then he knows us more. Knowledge must be available. Especially the big question, Ducic said – the worst thing is to be old, sick and poor. Poverty is the worst in the country. The highest level of poverty is in the country. They are becoming less and less accessible to higher education. You, Mr. Minister, need to take a little care of that. If information needs to be developed, if they need to share computers in order to be able to do so by letter, it needs to be developed in that direction, because that knowledge they need to acquire to develop their end, to keep someone in the country, to better produce, etc. Academically, the knowledge that needs to be applied is also fair, because knowledge that is not applicable, the amplified knowledge, that you have nothing to apply, and is not some knowledge. Velika Duško Radovic said that only peasants, unlike science doctors, have a variety of such, have more knowledge than expertise. We've got all the calls you want, but calling doesn't mean knowledge. Because what you've learned by drumming, you've only filled yourself with some memory, but if you haven't felt anything by experience, by noticing, then that knowledge will be difficult to convey, and it's hard to apply. One said it's expensive tuition that pays with its experience. I'd like to get out of more education systems all of us to pick up what's best, to have one system that's strict, educational, fair, but above all applicable, that's exactly known as Plato's "State" who's a producer, like me, who's a soldier, who's a manager, because those who advocate the rule of knowledge are really just advocating to the rule of calling, and calling and knowledge are two different things and that's hard to explain to someone, because respected ministers, free is deaf whispering, blind to show and unreasonable to explain. If it were unreasonable to explain that he was unreasonable, he wouldn't be unreasonable. In the end, I'll conclude, since those of the party of the former regime love these Americans, I don't hate them, I want to be good to them, to be a partner, but not a subject, unlike the party of the former regime. Roosevelt said a man without a school could steal a thing in a car. A man with a university degree, especially this one in their Bologna, especially these 12, 13-year-olds they studied, a man with that degree can steal a whole railroad. Well, we lived at a time when the party of the former regime stole both roads and locomotives and trains and railways and when she stole the state, and through the reform of education, one part I need to return the country to its real owners, its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3822	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3823	Here, in relation to the importance of the topic we talked about, which is really the most important topic of this country and this society, and so, no matter how much society is developed, that question will always be on the agenda, because it is one of the basic tasks that every society gives itself, I hope that one day I will see the National Assembly in which no one will disrespect anyone because of the years he spent studying. I hope that we will also remember this activity in the Assembly, when we had an understanding of the weaknesses of the system, of our weaknesses, of our overall weaknesses, when we trusted ourselves and the society and the system and the students, and once again I say, I hope that we will not belittle anyone and that this will be the last session with this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3824	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic. I think it's just one minute. Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3825	Thank you. We agree that students of all levels of study are allowed to complete their studies according to plan and programme. However, the bill must be returned to the constitutional frameworks because it is anti-constitutional or by introducing in it a provision on feedback and general interest or by reprocessing the damage caused by a breakthrough of the deadline. The old students lost student status, that's the biggest damage, and they won't have it until they re-enter the studies. So I can't continue them. Provisions should be laid down to allow students by age and bologna to enter without cost-recipients. It can be done with good amendments and we will propose some of these amendments tomorrow. By having amendments and amendments that couldn't be part of the amendment, you'll see it tomorrow, and then maybe it's a good idea for the bill to eventually withdraw and process or just process. What's important to me to stress here is that students are at least guilty of this. The system shall be arranged and provided in the institutions of the system and solutions shall not be anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3826	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3827	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as we do at the end, a debate like this, I would like to thank everyone who has made a constructive contribution to today's debate, and this refers to a convincing majority, and I would say almost anything, perhaps with the exception of that unarticulated person, I am sorry that he is no longer in the O.R., who is chronically eager for our attention, and he is chronically lacking in knowledge, which is what the face would say, one of the conclusions of the day. We talked today about a relationship between economic opportunities and potential in this society and for young people, but not just for young people. About that, one news, today's news. Today, a contract with Leoni was signed in the town of Nis to open a new production plant. The contract was signed in the presence of the Prime Minister for 2,200 new jobs. This is for applause. [[Applause]] So, with a cornerstone in December and a new production plant that should be in the first phase of August next year. It's one of the good news and it goes hand in hand with good news like having a science tech park called "Stars", Belgrade, for example. After 26 years in which 80 companies are expected, 30 early apps, 1,000 young experts, and more than a hundred returnees also mentioned today. And with news like that, there were over 130 apartments for young researchers. All the other good things we've shared in this hall today, I'm sure they all do one good, important and powerful message together for young people in Serbia. Perspectives in this country of course there are, and how there is, and that every day there is an increasingly best way to do it is to work together on it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3828	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3829	I'd just like a little while, since you all said what you had and what I thought, what we put in the bill. I just didn't, first of all, know that I had to talk after every sentence that applied to me, so I asked when I was supposed to get my turn. Now I'll know another time. However, since they were similar topics, I'm not ashamed to admit it, for the first time I'm well, the chairman knows that when I asked him, if it's an observation that I haven't answered before. I'm a man who's not afraid of anything, and I have no fears, no rational, no irrational. All I have is fear of my family being all right and my environment. That word that I'm afraid is really unsuitable to me. Discrimination, if I said twice, I will repeat the third time, that I respect institutions, such as the National Council for Higher Education, which forms the National Republic of Serbia Assembly, means I really don't see what would have been done differently. So you'd be exposed to a pillar of shame because I don't respect institutions. Also, I know well, I am so politically written that you also have students coming to you, that you have greater powers when amendments and laws are passed. Of course I don't mind getting rid of this thing this way, so I've been with the students all along. So it's not a tactics, it's exactly what I said. If it bothers anyone that the Minister of Education respects the institutions of the People's Republic of Serbia and its Assembly, then I don't know if it's a problem. And don't tell me if they're expecting me at school with cake and salt, so I went to over 100 and some schools and I said I'd visit all of Serbia. It's my job to see what they're in, to see what they need, to see which ones have grades, by external evaluation. I've spoken to ten active directors, so far. So, really, the fact that they're spreading the picture is real and I'm not at all someone who can fascinate with some kind of welcome. So, I came here today to do what I have to do, of course. Today I was supposed to be in Leskovac and being, regardless of what the government is now in Nis, in southern Serbia, my agenda has been saying since day one. So, no pulsism. I'm a practical man, I need to see where my territory is, as long as I rule, who I rule with, what I do. So if that's the wrong perception, here's my apology. Otherwise, all the other things you've reasonably advised me, I'm a reasonable man, I'm going to accept, and especially this part where we're going to protect the financial interest of students, no matter what level or level, even if we had these four inspectors right now, and we haven't been able to talk about why we're redesigning the school's inspection service, a number of other things, and it would take a lot more time. I didn't realize he didn't have all that today. I only focused on what this topic was. Whether it's someone who doesn't understand parliamentaryism, I have no experience for sure, but when we talk about serious laws and fundamentals, there will really be a need to explain ourselves about many views. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-18-0.u3830	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group. Does MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) There are no lists of members of parliaments who are registered for discussion and, on this basis, I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. This is what we end with today. Continuing Thursday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
