ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u932	Ladies and gentlemen of the future members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the National Assembly, I would like to say at the beginning that the SVM parliamentary group – PDD will vote for the election of Mr. Vukic's government. We heard the exposé yesterday, but before I say a few sentences about the exposé, the objectives of the exposé, let me look back a little bit on the work of the previous government. That government was also supported by us from the SVM and we participated in its work at the state secretary level. A few months ago, republican elections were held. It's been checked for legitimacy. These days, a government will be formed to make up the same parties that supported or did the previous government, except the PDD, which will now be part of the ruling majority for the first time. Now virtually all ideas that support the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are present in parliament. I am referring to the fact that many more parties have entered the current National Assembly's current assembly than it was in the previous term, and that is certainly good for the national Assembly's representativeness, but as I said, the government will do the same to those parties who did it in the previous term. What is the main or most important result of the previous government, and what is what we expect from the future government? It's stability. The previous government has managed to preserve both political and economic stability, which is not always easy in this region, and this is certainly the most important result of the previous government, and this is the condition of all conditions, and economic prosperity and the continuation of negotiations with the EU and the resolution of all those issues and problems that are important in the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the previous government, this government was adorned by courage, honesty, and openness. We don't think it's possible to say otherwise, that this is the way to approach the problem. Chapters 23, 24, 32 and 35 of the EU have been opened. What is of first-rate importance to us was adopted so-called. or a specific Action Plan on the position of national minorities, and this is one document that will be the agenda of the future government's tasks, as regards this topic of protection of the rights and freedom of members of national minorities. It is very important that this document was adopted before the parliamentary elections were called and that the priorities set out in this document were already achieved in the previous months, and we expect it in the coming period. As for SNS and SVM co-operation and other parties that made up the previous government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to highlight several concrete achievements. First, collective guilt was lifted and this principle was eliminated from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia after decades. This was done by abolishing two decisions from 1945. This is certainly important because Hungarians who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be more likely to consider Serbia their homeland, because in the past decades, Hungarians have been treated as collective culprits for some events decades ago. Such a principle cannot survive in the legal system of a European state in the 21st century, but there was no political courage in the previous years during previous governments to eliminate this collective guilt from our legal system. It was done two years ago. In addition, frameworks for the proportionate employment of members of national minorities and the keeping of registers of employees in public administration were created, given the nationality of employees, which is a prerequisite for the implementation of the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a member of 77 with regard to the proportionate employment of members of national minorities. In addition, certain projects have been funded for us very important, for which there was no money in some previous mandates, in some previous years and above all I mean financing construction or reconstruction of the National Theatre building in Subotica, which was done in the previous two years with a total of 90 million dinars, and it was done after seven years. In those previous seven years, governments have not fulfilled their contractual obligations on the basis of the project. Another project, which is not only important for the Suboticas, only for the region, only for Vojvodina, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to some extent and in some ways, is this so-called. Ipsylon arms or bypasses around Subotica and with 197 million dinars in 2015 the construction of this project was financed again after several years. That is only 10% of the funds required, but we expect that the project will end after 30 years during the government's term of office, which will be elected within a few days. I said that this project is important, in some ways and to some extent, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not just for that region. Because Subotica and this region, because of their geographical position, are also very important from a business point of view. It takes a highway, a border crossing to connect to a free zone, a logistics centre, etc. And it's just not normal for these big boots to go through the very center of Subotica for decades, which leads to damage to the houses. Some of the projects in the railway infrastructure area are the same run. Of course, above all, I mean the Belgrade railway – Budapest, but also the Segedin – Subotica – Baja railways will lead to economic prosperity on these parts of the Republic of Serbia and beyond. We faced some challenges in the previous period, and here I mean, first of all, the migrant crisis. The migrant crisis was the only topic that we looked at differently compared to other parties that made up the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it was for the understandable reason that the citizens of the city of Subotica, the municipality of Kanjiz and other municipalities in the north of Vojvodina were most likely, besides Belgrade, faced with the problem. We heard in the exposé yesterday that in the previous period about 700,000 migrants went through our territory. It is 10% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. That's a hell of a number. I know that Serbia is not responsible, nor can it be. I know it's a terribly difficult question, but I would like to appeal to the government again, and in the future, I did so a year ago, in the first place, to be the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Leaving the country is also a big problem, and we heard clear sentences yesterday, as well as some plans about the problem. I think it's the task of all of us to create a society or a country where people won't run away, where they will stay, to start a family, where they will see the future, and therefore we want to contribute, in a modest way, work and future government, as we did in the previous period. As for the exposé and some specific items from the exposé, we welcome the plan to address the issue of selling agricultural land to foreigners. We talked about it on many occasions, and in some previous mandates, we did not come across some great degree of understanding. Simply, agricultural land as a resource should be protected in the way other countries have done before us have joined the EU. We certainly support Serbia trying to get at least seven or 12 years to maintain existing national provisions restricting the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Some shifts were made in the previous term when the National Assembly amended the Law on Agricultural Land and we believe that certain restrictive conditions should be laid down for this, for the acquisition of agricultural land that would apply to both domestic and foreign persons. First of all, I think of a certain number of years, housing and farming as a condition for the acquisition of property rights over agricultural land. We support what we heard in the exposé as much as we can. What has not been said, I will remain on the subject of agriculture for a short time, these are contributions to mandatory social security of agricultural producers. We talked about it in the previous period. An inter-resor Working Group was also formed during last term. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance must be amended. Of course, contributions should be paid. No matter who declares himself left-wing, right-wing, social-democracy or conservative, the government's policy should certainly be fair. We can't say that the government's policy on this matter is fair if the same amount should be paid by a farmer who has a hectare of land and one who has 100,000 hectares of land, and that's the case today. This must be changed in a way that those who possess more, those who earn higher incomes pay a higher rate, or a higher amount of contributions, and those who process a smaller area of agricultural land should pay the same, but that amount of contribution should be in line with the revenues achieved. We advocate and hope to continue working on this issue and to find a solution that will lead to the lack of revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but to make the system fairer on this issue. As far as agriculture is concerned, the rules on small agricultural producers hope to be passed. A public debate has been held in the previous term and this Regulation should allow small producers to produce, process and place their products in accordance with the provisions of the Food Safety Act. As for the infrastructure, we heard in the exposé that in 2015 our rail network carried 17 million passengers and 12 million cargo. These are certainly positive and encouraging data, but we also know that rail traffic is being lifted on some regional and local railways. We stand for the survival of these railways and make economics not the only criterion. There and local self-government should be involved in financing the survival of these railways, but it certainly wouldn't be good if those lines that citizens are using were massively removed, it would primarily not be good from the social aspect, because we know that rail traffic is the cheapest. I mentioned the reconstruction of the Baja-Subotica-Segedin railway, I hope that funds will be found for the project, as well as for the continuation of the building of the ipsion arms, and that was the point. It would be good to build an intermodal logistics centre near Subotica and the development of Palić as a tourist destination is of first-class importance to us. Palic is today one of the most important, beautiful tourist destinations in the Republic of Serbia. No potential was used, should be invested, and I am sure that we will find a partner in the government of the Republic of Serbia for that. As for road crossings, a statement on intentions was signed during the previous government's term of office, on the comprehensive development of infrastructure links between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. There are very good concrete things here. It would be good if certain border crossings started with work from 0-24, and above all I mean Horgos 2, at the border crossing of Djala, Bačka vineyards, perhaps at the Horgos border crossing. We all know in these summer months what a crowd is at the Kelebi border crossing at the Horgos border crossing. This should be dispersed and can be done if the working time of the other border crossings continues. As for culture, I mentioned the importance of completing the construction or reconstruction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. I hope that the next three financial years will be completed, that both the province and the City of Subotica will serve their obligations, as will the Republic. In that case, this very significant project will be completed. As far as education is concerned, the prime minister said he expects the co-operation of national councils with the Ministry of Education. As for the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, if I may say on their behalf, and I believe that on behalf of other national councils, they will be open to this co-operation, the process of partial transfer of the founding rights of certain primary schools should be completed. A major problem is the methodology of learning Serbian. According to these plans and programmes, it is impossible to learn Serbian language at school, I am responsible for that. First of all, for those national communities whose native language differs from the Serbian language, there should be reforming plans and programmes, and there are certain shifts made, but these plans and programmes that have been unchanged for 20, 30 years, they have to change and there will be partners, I am sure, national councils of national minorities as they have been. As far as education is concerned, let me say that we need to solve the problem of the department with a small number of students. It's a global problem, but it's extremely sensitive to members of national minorities. I'll speed it up, since I'm running out of time. As far as social issues are concerned, we strongly support the plan to involve labour users in the process of labour activation. That's certainly just what it's supposed to be. The Regulation was adopted in the previous term. We're also in favour of amending the Social Security Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u933	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u934	I'm done. To deny the possibility of multiple returnees in committing crimes to receive assistance. We will support the government and in the coming days we will sign a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u935	Thank you. The word is by MP Velimir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u936	Dear Parliament Speakers, Mr Vucicu, ladies and gentlemen of the government, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the NS parliamentary group will vote for a new government and we will do so for a number of reasons. One reason is because the NS has been the headquarters of this government since the beginning of the coalition with SNS. We will do this because we were also part of the executive government from 2012 to today, so we participated in the work of this government and we will do it for a reason because the government created opportunities and hope for the citizens of Serbia from 2014 to 2016 in the previous two years. We will support the government which is practically the continuity of the previous government. We'll support her because, as we often say, you can see the holy one at the end of the tunnel. The government has found a really difficult situation both in public finances and in all other segments of society. The government deserves to gain confidence because in the previous period it has been primarily honest with the citizens of Serbia and announced that we will bring uncompromising measures, bold measures, and measures that will introduce order in the country, which will eventually create conditions for this to be a modern and democratic country. We are often in a situation when it comes to sports or some other segments of society to say that this is a historic moment. I'm not going to use that term, but in the next four-year period ahead of this government, Mr. Wolfic, as you know, there are still a lot of problems ahead, a lot of denial. Unfortunately, in this country, it is still difficult to live, but citizens respected the honesty of this government, the honesty of the ruling coalition, they knew what awaits them, and I finally believe that at the end of this government's term, we will all be able to say that Serbian citizens live better. This government has a mission to bring this country to the door of the EU, I personally do not belong to some extreme euro fanatics, but the fact that the largest investment in this country is right from the EU countries, that we export the most to the EU, that we are geographically where we are, simply belong to the family of European peoples and that we belong in the EU. First of all, now and in recent years, we have acquired only the fact that we are the leader and most stable country with the fastest growth in the region. But what I want to say and what is the specificity of the formation of this government, which was not the case when we chose the previous ones, we always had before that amendments to the Government and Ministry Act, so the same number of ministries with the same names remained. This should not be my remark, but simply a suggestion, and since, Mr. Vukic, you have announced that either in the rebalancing process or in the adoption of a new Budget Law for 2017, you will have come to an amendment to the Government and Ministry Act, if I follow the previous 15 years, which is a segment of environmental protection. You know what problems await us and what challenges in Chapter 27 in EU accession. You know how many objections were made to the environmental protection sector, though, that's something changed and something better. But let me just remind you that it's environmental or whatever we call environmental protection. In the last 15 years transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, to the Department for Environmental Protection, at one point even in the context of spatial planning. If something is good, then it is good that this sector, as in the previous period, will be within the Ministry of Agriculture, which I personally think is most logical if it should be somewhere, but regardless of whether environmental protection was special to the Ministry in the perspective, or within some ministry, we should all fight together not to be that secondary segment within a resolution. Speaking of agriculture and environmental protection, I am now speaking as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, we have given the Government one conclusion that the Ministry of Agriculture next to agriculture bears the title as it once did – water and forestry, as very important segments of the entire resort. You yourself talked yesterday about all the problems we have in the water industry because of the poor condition in the waterworks, that we've had catastrophic floods. Even so, it is much more developed countries than us like France or Germany, but I believe that by investing, however, big money we can bring this segment to such a level that at least those basic disasters that can be prevented can be regulated. What's the fact is that the fiscal situation is far better. The fact is that stability has been ensured, stability has been secured in the state and prosperity has been secured. Surely in the next period, focus will be on the economic development of the country, employment, and I see it primarily through three, four segments. These are energy, agriculture, tourism and, of course, the condition of all this is the development of traffic infrastructure. When we talk about agriculture, I think Mr. Nedimovic will since the introduction of the multi-party system be whether 19th or 20th Agriculture Minister, I don't know exactly, but I want to say that the mandates of the current agriculture ministers have been short, but I don't see it as such as a personal problem, but the problem in which our agrarian is located. We always say at the beginning of every campaign or the start of a new government that agriculture is something that we can compete with the world, that this is our export chance, which, of course, is if it participates with 10% of GDP, if it participates with over 20% in exports, employs 20% of the working-age population. We must admit that our agricultural production is very specific, that this country is relatively small and that it is characterized by different specificities when it comes to agricultural production, that the conditions of farming in Leskovec, Subotica, Vienna or the Cave are completely different. What we haven't done in the previous period, we've been dealing with strategic matters, strategic decisions in the field of agriculture, we haven't made a reonization of agricultural production, where then the state will be able to especially stimulate those productions that in the given area can offer the best benefits. Of course, all this takes time, but I say, with the rest of the strategic documents, I think reonization is one of the key problems where we can achieve high yields in agriculture. In general, our agriculture is characterized by extensive production, i.e. low-level production per unit of surface. Not to say that our machinery and tractors are on average over 20 years old, that our holdings, our households are depreciated. I welcome the decision of the future government to focus on small and medium-sized land. These are simply small farms in the country that are employed, they are small family companies, but of course they should be helped not to make the primary agricultural product, i.e. raw material our main export product but to strengthen the processing capacity and, of course, rebuild the machinery and everything else. I welcome the idea that young farmers who remain in the country are primarily financed. I welcome the idea that 60% of the budget is co-financed for the acquisition of machinery and other equipment, such as the construction of processing facilities, but with the observation that the Ministry of Agriculture and all other services, above all I think of the Ministry of Finance somewhat to mitigate these procedures, because it is such that our farmers often give up when they see what they need to do to get some incentives in terms of machinery or something like that. There have been a lot of objections about the reduction of subsidies per unit of the area. However, here we are simply in the dilemma whether to finance it – in some way consumption or will we finance investments? I'm always for investment. When we talk about tourism, I'm glad we have Exit, we have Guch, but with all due respect, these are manifestations that last for two or three days, but I, Mr. Vucic, was truly happy to see you at the Dove Fortress. It's a destination that can be visited in Maltese 365 days a year, but that's why we should also work on modernizing our spas. We need to know that we have unknown spas and unknown springs, that Serbia literally lies on geothermal waters, from the far south of Serbia to the north of Backa, that we have not used anything, and that we can also use it to develop tourism and for the purpose of heating, but also for the purpose of agricultural production. What is the condition of all conditions is traffic infrastructure. He is pleased that during the previous period, the work on corridors 10 and 11. Of course, it is important to give recognition to all those who have begun and who have participated in all that. I realized yesterday the justification of your anger that the section of Corridor 11 from Preljina to Ljiga will not be opened on August 25th but in October, but if it is to comfort you where August is there is also October. I think the citizens of western Serbia had the opportunity to get the highway much earlier, but then, politically, the concession for the Horgos-Požega highway was shot down. It doesn't matter to me, or it matters, but a measure needs to be found, whether it will be a concession, whether it will be built out of credit, but certainly the citizens of western Serbia could have gotten that highway several years earlier. It was then said that this is a road that leads to nothing, and in the perspective of building the Moravia Corridor from Preljina to Pojat, there is about a million people living in that space, and just to see what that network of highways can mean in economic and any other sense for the development of this country. At the very end, what happened yesterday, Mr. Vukic, was a little vague, and now I'm talking about someone who was Mayor of Chačka for almost nine years, you were talking about the state of finance in local self-government and you were talking about some examples of negative practice. I wouldn't want all the local self-governments and all the responsible people, and I guess there's a lot of them, who did their job seriously, so we put all the local self-governments in the same basket. So there are those who've been borrowing three budgets in advance, and there are those who've left liquid budgets, or spent as much as they have. I welcome the idea of affecting financial control and other mechanisms that this can no longer be done, but I remain unclear – do you intend to amend the Law on financing local self-government, or do I not understand that well, and in which direction? At the very end in just one sentence to touch the sport. We were last year, i.e. The last one passed a new law on sports, but he didn't define what was basic to me, and that's funding sports. I know it's a big bite, but I just want to tell you that our sports brands Partizan and Star can find sponsors, but some small clubs in the interior are doing it harder and harder. I think it's necessary to pass a final sport law that will define sports financing. Whether it's privatisation, whether it's a public private partnership, I don't want to get into it now, but to say that sport is something that makes Serbia recognizable, and until we define the financing of sports, we can build both athletic halls and sports halls, but I'm afraid that young people, talented people, will go to play somewhere outside the country, because simply clubs won't be able to finance themselves. In the end, I wish you a lot of success in your work. You've got a lot of challenges ahead of you. In the New Serbia parliamentary group, you will always have a loyal coalition partner who will support all your ideas. We, in the previous term and as part of the ruling coalition, have submitted a large number of amendments, not to harm the government, but simply had a good intention to fix these laws and very often our amendments were adopted. With all that, I wish you good luck. No matter how much a man does, no matter how hard he tries, he's got to be lucky in every job. In 2014, at the beginning of your term, you had no luck, you had a hundred-year flood. I hope that it will not be, but I am sure that this composition of your cabinet will meet all the conditions and that Serbia will become a modern, democratic country, a country that is desirable for life, especially young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u937	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u938	I'd like to answer a few questions. First, Mr. Pastor, I expect and believe that we will sign this agreement, as we have done every time and from our obligations and from our words we do not flee. You mentioned what was started, the ipsylon arm is an important thing, not only for Hungarians in the north of Vojvodina and in the north of Baka, it is important for all of Serbia. It's important for our investors, too, if you will, especially for people from the industrial zone, because almost all of them from Continental to Sverovski told me they have problems going through the city center, especially those who have larger quantities of goods, because they waste a lot of time, they lose both fuel and everything else. So, that's one thing, even though it's hard for us because of a lot of projects to raise money. Usually it sounds nice, which you and your people who are in the Serbian government know well, usually everyone says – put it, write it to do, and then the money is missing. That's what we witnessed. We used to have scheduled projects for 25 billion. That Serbia cannot meet, that Serbia cannot do. At this point, if I'm not mistaken, Vujovic, we have 3.6 billion and we're in trouble for that. Of course, we know that it won't be over in a year, that it won't be over in two years, but we're telling you that, with all the cuts we've been doing, we've got everything we've been talking about all over again. I'll tell you what, I took a look at the IRS report this morning. Unfortunately, everyone in Serbia, everyone who deals with politics, but also those who don't deal with politics, is waiting for Serbia to finish the roads, that the state finishes schools, that the state pays teachers. We stand out more for education than many other countries. But in fact, we don't single out for education, we single out only for wages, because we have more perpetrators than they have countries, even twice as much as countries with similar population. That's what I'm saying about roads. I watched the joy of hosts, peasants, exactly, Mr. Stanojevic, in Dragacheva, in Goračići, where we made our way, and in many such places. But people think that the state can do it literally in every village, which is not real, even though in the last two years we've really done more than ever. It's not his fault, it's not his fault. I don't know which one from earlier or today. I have heard from Mrkonjic in time about Europols, etc., when we all dreamed and dreamed about how to bring Belgrade to water, etc. So, I want to tell you that many ideas exist before, but there was no money. Well, that's how it is now. So, only people have to take care, corridors 10 and 11 are an absolute priority. Yeah, we could've worked a lot sooner and ended it, but we didn't. Every time we talked about doing it. It's very complicated to build through the Sitician ravine, it's very complicated to build through the Gredile ravine. You know we now have problems in two tunnels on the road Preljina – Ljig. So we'd open it on August 25th, but we can open one pipe, we can't open both pipes, and that's why we won't even open something that's incomplete, even if it was incomplete just on those thousand meters as far as these tunnels are. But the promise was not fulfilled, that it would be August 25th. I know it's a small difference, is it going to be in a month and a half or two, and it's not a big deal for people who've waited 50, 60 and 70 years, but that's all I'm asking -- why didn't you tell me the truth a month and a half ago when you knew that and then? So that's the question. I know they do more than they did before, and the Azerbaijani did, much better than many others. The Chinese have now especially stepped up the work on Likovac – Ljig, so that especially the Belgraders who are going to central and western Serbia at Celli can enter the highway to Lajkovec and use the car as far as possible to take the car as possible. So, something more important to us than Ub-Obrenovac, which is also done by the Chinese at the moment, so we asked them to speed up this stock because we know that if they make us Ub – Obrenovac, and with everything that we've done Ub – Lykovac, it's a small flow of passengers and it's a small traffic on a section from Obrenovac to Lykovec. Anyway, what I wanted to tell you about funding sports, first around the mayor, I said yesterday that there were great people and great mayors. Unfortunately, not everyone else gets angry, it's not the majority of the mayor or the president of the municipalities. In order to be very correct, Cacak rarely sought and received a little support and assistance from the Republic budget. I'm grateful for that. Many others have sought much more, I have said some examples. You will see today in the debate, as citizens of Serbia, you will be ashamed to see what we have done as presidents of the municipalities, what we have paid for and what we have made of certain municipalities. Believe me, you will be ashamed and ashamed. I brought it in today just to see it because it wouldn't have occurred to a normal man to do it, normal, not careful, not safe, not someone who's reasonable and rational, normal man wouldn't have thought of it. So you'll see that someone takes the fictional bills that they drank at one point 165 "tuborg" beers at the same bar, at the same time, 165 "tuborg" beers, 132 coffees, and then he didn't like that "tuborg" and he drank 19 other beers. And it was all paid for by the community. I just wanted to tell you, yes, it's our intention to change the Law on the financing of local self-government, first of all because we think that this is a very important condition for obtaining IMF support and approval and the fifth and sixth revisions of the IMF, which is important for Serbia's economic progress and on the other hand because we think that one part of the money is being spent irrationally, and we're ready, you'll see, of course, we still need to talk about it with the new minister, if we get your trust here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So we need to see, and we will always for investment investments to set out significantly more than we would in certain municipalities, but Belgrade will be taken the most, you know. Belgrade is proportional to 23% per population, we will take 30-35% of the money taken, because Belgrade and we are giving the most. So we give Belgrade the most in every respect and we're willing to return it through investment investments, but don't just throw money the way it's been thrown up to today. One very important thing about thermal springs. We in Serbia have about 1,000 thermal sources at the moment. We have yet to deal with finding privates, to give it to concessions, public private partnerships, to see what to do about it because we haven't done anything, and I'm afraid as soon as we go into it that, you know, Serbia, you know, and all the stories would be born and we gave our natural resources, as if they could take thermal water somewhere or I don't know what everything, but we'll certainly do it. As for the Law on Sport Financing, I disagree with you here, Mr. Stanojevic, or I don't agree in part. I've heard that question from a lot of sportsmen. What's their idea? First of all, I don't think the Star and Partizan can find the sponsor, they can't find the sponsors. They can't find sponsors, they take from the state because they're all somewhere -- come on, solve the problem of not yelling at someone: "save Serbia and kill yourself," so they don't say "gay," they don't tell anyone this or that, and then everybody screams and everybody's happy about it, and to tell you the truth, we're paying a racket as a state. We give money, I don't know why we give it. Great, everybody here cheers for the Star and Partizan, one has fifty and how many, the other as many fans and all of Serbia cheers for them, but the problem is that we're not fair to the others. Because he has the right to be angry with Vojvodina, he has the right to anger both Belgrade and Borac Cačak and Luciani and Milanovac and Kruševac and Ivanzica and everyone else has the right to get angry, but there is something else. Our idea, that's why we didn't bring it, Mr. Stanojevic, because we want them to take money from us and not from us, and you have nothing to take from someone who spends your contracts until 2018, because they've been escorted, taken from the bank, the bank took a big commission, and so every time. Now let me sign the contract if possible, with Telekom, with NIS, with the EPS, with anyone by 2020, we will be able to escrow until 2019, so that ordinary people understand, we will spend the money we were supposed to receive in 2018 and 2019, because we are not able to make money on the market. If you're not capable of making money on the market, he's gonna shut down his business. It's the easiest thing to manage state money, and being a big director and a big president and a big one, I don't know what. I think it's a grave disease of our society that we won't be able to heal soon, and I didn't talk about it on purpose yesterday because I know I don't have enough strength, as Prime Minister, and I believe they don't have any others to do it. So we need privatisation in sports. See when you say – and what would the state pay for any club and for Braykovac and Chibutkovica? If there are people who are interested, let them pay. It is the state's obligation to provide physical education, to keep our children healthy, to make sure whoever wants to build a club pays. It's his business. As much as we can single out for everyone and it's not big money. Look at Nemanje Matic, our famous football player, I think in England he's playing, he's now taken the club to Ubba. He, a guy who still plays, includes Skype every other night and explains to the kids where to run, how to run. He's invested his money. He wants to make money on those kids. He's acting markety, he's seen what business is in Europe, he's seen what business is in the world, and no one bothers him to do it, and I wish him all the happiness in this world. But he didn't get a dime from us, he didn't get a dime from the state. There, it arranges the stands there at Unity Stadium in Ub, if it's Unity, I may have made a mistake and an account of a man – I'll make a private business. When the kid's supposed to get in the way, let this other football player Azar come in, turn himself in, say, 'cause he's taking care of them, he wants money, he wants to make money. The problem with us is that they're going to rip your head off and they're going to tell you - 49% someone owns it, but we want to be 51%, we make decisions, but this one gives money. It's nowhere in the world. Imagine the Berlusconi that sells to the Chinese or the one who sells to the Thais or I don't know who to say it to – I sold it to you, but I want us and the fans to decide everything, and you manage it, so make money if you can, and if you don't, we're going to replace you. It's a big, big problem with us and I don't see a solution right now, and anyone who tells me someone else to solve it, don't let me tell you what they were doing and how Antico was taken to the Star to stop the cheerleading: "Save Serbia! “ So pay six million here, and pay five million there, and pay like this, and pay like this. At least I don't pay anyone not to yell, "Wolf, faggot! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Yell all you want. I don't want to pay anything for it. But have we done other things wrong? We did. It's my own fault. As far as agriculture is concerned, you're all right, and about the water factories. We've invested more in the past two years than we've ever invested before, but it's not enough. We need ten more times that. As far as agriculture is concerned, there has been there for 30 years, perhaps more, and it is not the ministers' fault, it is not the ministers' fault at all, there are in both the Serbian and the province's and other levels, and they are all tied up, no one will change anything ever. We can't sell pork anywhere, so it's not worth it to anyone to have a carboy, because we're not gonna give up vaccination for swine fever, what's everywhere in the world. You can't sell anywhere in the world one half unless you inject from swine fever, but you can't get through it in Serbia because at the same time they're going to tell you that you've destroyed complete livestock production and that's how it's been going for years, decades, and I believe that we're going to be able to change some of that over the next period. I'm grateful for your support. As for the highway and thank you when people can reach Chačka, later and to Požega, even Zlatibor, Zlatar, Wet Gora in an hour faster than today and incomparably safer and uncomparably safe, I am sure they will be grateful and will know that the country has done a good job. That it's going easy, it's not going easy. It's not building roads easy work, especially highways, it's very complicated construction, expensive construction. For people to know, the cheapest mile of highway is 5m euros, the cheapest, and somewhere a kilometer of highway costs 25m euros. In the Siscevac ravine, it cost us about 17m to 18m euros on average. Just keep an eye on how much money it is. It takes five kilometers, that's already 100 million euros. It's huge money for the state of Serbia, and people say -- hey, what did you go there to open six kilometers of road, the highway Grabovnica-Gradelica? And how can I explain to you that it costs 100m euros and how much money it is for the state of Serbia. Anyway, thanks, and this is what we're gonna watch to fix. If you have ideas especially about funding sports, they are welcome, but we can spend it in action, because what can I tell you, we all know everything, except that nobody in Serbia is going to do it. That's all I can tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u939	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u940	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully yesterday to this summary of Mr. Vukic's presentation, the prime minister of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. What I have to notice is that this new government in a certain sense is not so new, given the fact that the majority of coalition partners who have done more or less the past government are doing it. In that sense, in order to discuss the new government, I think it would be correct to say at least one word about the results of the last government, for the simple reason that if there had been a change and if someone else had formed a government, he would certainly have looked back at the work of the last government, which I'm not sure is going to happen here. This is what I'm saying for the simple reason that when last time the mandater Vucic gave an exposé, he made one, it seemed to me then guff, but now it's obviously not guff, because it happened again, and that's that in his multi-hour presentation, he never once said the word of Vojvodina. Not a single time. Vojvodina is not just a province as the prime minister said, it has a name. It may seem like a Semantic insistence on the details, but believe me, it's not like that, but it's a much deeper problem that I want to talk about because, let's remember, a year and a few days ago, in this same room, a serious team is being discussed to change the political system in Serbia. This team to create a new political system in Serbia, the whole idea simply with less and less public and with more and more silences, simply disappeared, evaporated. With great joy, I must say, by listening carefully to the exposés of the prime minister, I have heard many interesting, useful, and I hope accurate information. However, these are all things that are related to day-to-day policy matters, and not at the same time to the systemic changes in the country that, as I understand it, must occur. I welcome the changes in the government because some people who are new to the government happen to know and I can say that their qualities are unquestionable. I am quite sure that Mr. Nedimovic will contribute not only to the development of agriculture in Srem, Banat and Bačka, but also to all Serbia. However, I am interested in something else, and I am interested in the issue of the Hungarian model of resolving the agricultural land issue, which the prime minister mentioned. The Hungarian solution for those who don't know it, a solution which among other parties, the Social Democrats League among other parties, would be unfair to say that it was only us who advocated it, but the completely opposed political options advocated that laws should be passed to prohibit the sale of the country to foreigners, at least on a certain deadline. In that sense, the Hungarian solution is what I very much welcome, but I ask the question, the Hungarian solution was made by the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary, in order for the Constitution to record what I'm talking about right now. Does the Hungarian solution mentioned by the prime minister in his exposé include a change of constitution? If it implies a change of constitution, then stopping thinking about changing the political system in this country is very dangerous. If the Constitution will only change so as to bring about some day-to-day policy points, then it is irresponsible and I don't think it should be done that way, because we already had a chance to bring the Constitution, as we remember well, without discussion, without public debate and to bring it to a longer vote, rather than a debate on the constitution itself. I welcome the presence of Mr. Knezevic in this government, but it would also be good for Mr. Knezevic to meet his colleagues from the government with the fact that the town of Zrenjanin from which he comes was next to the town of Maribor the most developed industrial centre in the SFRY, and now in the mediocrity of an undeveloped part of Serbia called AP Vojvodina. We have come into a position that is precisely why we now have to open the essence of the story of what is really political happening in the background. The current Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Mr Igor Mirovic, has launched an action to restore Vojvodina property in the form of villas that the AP Vojvodina had in Croatia and Slovenia. I didn't notice that was mentioned. Is there perhaps a difference in the views of Prime Minister Vojvodina and Serbian Prime Minister on this? Is the question, is it really evidence that the issues of the return of the duke's property through which the silences have crossed are evidence of the possibility of the existence of the Duke's property? If the Duke's property can exist then it doesn't have to be just in real estate, it can be in money. If the property can be in money, then there can be a debt. If there is a debt, then I ask the question – what happened to the other parts of the duchy property that include the duchy post office, the duchy railways, the "Electrovodina" etc. Not to mention everything I've talked about, I was in the past meeting with the finance minister about how much Vojvodina was denied by the lack of respect for the constitutional provision on the size of the Vojvodina budget and thus the Vojvodina were denied by more than a billion euros. I'm saying all this for the next one. He needs to be aware that the problems this government is going to face are very deep. On the one hand, we have a question of sports that apparently is not so much in the essence of the political issue that I am now trying to run here, but I am asking the other question how is it possible for so many barrels to raise one Olympic medal, the golden medal of a girl from Kosovo and whether she should be congratulated or not on sports success, when in Novi Sad you have a man named Nenad Pagonis, a Novosadjan, who has been a world champion of kick-box several times, than Rasim Ljajic was a minister. There's a dead race, but the man's been a world kick-box champion ten times. All in all, if we have such a situation if there is a girl living in Novi Sad who, at the age of 15, is a cadet world champion in karate and is not mentioned, and one Olympic medal won by a judaismist from Kosovo was the reason that the Olympic Games instead of being a place where differences will be overcome becomes a place where differences are potentiated, and that is why I think the political issues that need to be opened are much deeper than they appear. I don't doubt the good intentions of this government, I don't doubt the good intentions of the prime minister, I have no doubt that this government will give whatever it can of itself for people in Serbia to live better, because I doubt it would not sit in this room. However, I spoke with Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Zlatibor Loncar more than five months ago about the issue of health care now required to get permission to buy weapons. The medical examination is so complicated that it is more complicated than the medical examination required for the permit to manage the landscape. Our meeting was short. It took only a few minutes, Mr. Lonchar said it was serious nonsense and it needed to be changed urgently. The meeting was Friday, he said it would be done on Monday. On Monday, I was told it couldn't change, but it would take a few days. After that, it became a matter of turning these few days into a few months. Elections are scheduled and then Mr. Loncar literally told me the following – bureaucracy won't work, because he doesn't know what's going to happen. Meanwhile, it has been several months since the election, the case still hasn't been resolved, and you're in a position to literally half a year from something we've launched as an initiative nothing happens because bureaucracy has taken over this country. These are the things that I would kindly pray for to be given a basic answer whether there is a political program of this government that this country should look like, because it's very nice to talk about highways that are being built and being made, but I have one question how many kilometers of these highways are going to be in Vojvodina? How many kilometers in a place where the cheapest road wall is the least priced, and at the same time it's necessary to connect, say, Banat between its significant places, connect with the Timisvara and its historical directions east-west? In order to do so, much less funds are needed, but as if we were in a position not to say the word of Vojvodina not to say the question of debts to Vojvodina, not to talk about what to do in Vojvodina. I'm talking about this because I'm from Vojvodina and I think everyone has to say in this place what he thinks it's supposed to be done where it's from to make one country that's equal everywhere, all the same in rights and all the same in obligations. This is how we are in the position that Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the government, past and mandated next, assumes that he is ruling the whole country from Belgrade. This is not a path that can go for the simple reason that this way we will be in a position for the Prime Minister's office and this government to become a narrow throat in decision making in this country, and that the narrow throat cannot go through normal life. Well, I'd like to ask you a few answers to what I've set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u941	Thank you. The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u942	First of all, Mr. Canak, your healthy humor I have always supported, unfortunately for my sake was a summary of exposure, mainly because of my insufficient physical possibilities, but I still think that citizens could gain insight into a comprehensive and serious plan and programme. Namely, I will remind you that the longest before my 2014 exposé had Vojislav Kostunica for 90 minutes, that some had, believe it or not, imagine, presented their programme and the government's work plan in 20 minutes. So, read four pages, four creamy texts and it was a plan and a program for the government. I boast about it, I'm proud of it, unlike those who would, I didn't say that you do it, who make fun of it and who say it's bad or terrible. You can imagine how much work it takes, how many hours and how many days he had to read or have to read in nine or ten hours, how much work it takes, how much energy he had to put into writing and how many times he had to read it. I think it also shows the attitude towards the citizens, shows both industriousness and commitment. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it has become a trend for people to joke, to make fun of those who are worthy and who could work. I guess it's best to be a sloth and sit in a bar all day and criticize everyone who does anything. When you say -- it's not that new; the government is new, every government after the election is new, the government is different, and it's logical that there are people who were in the government for the simple reason that we went to the elections and so asked for trust. It would have been a scam for the citizens of Serbia if we had brought everyone else. To be honest, if I hadn't gone to a campaign with a story about being prime minister, I'd hardly be prime minister, for some completely different reasons, but it would have been a citizen scam if we hadn't done it in such a way, because I've been telling the citizens -- vote for our list if you wanted me to be president of the Serbian government. Of course there are ministers, and other ministers have done a good job, but there is always some freshness, some new blood, as Coca-Cola does in Atlanta, which every year 15% of people change to show new energy, new ambition. I think it's a good balance between experience, knowledge, freshness. You commended two new members of the government and believe it or not, it won't bother them in their career, although I saw you both were worried when you commended them, but I want to tell you that we did it in such a way that we put ourselves in place for people who were experienced, not people who knew nothing about the job and when you mentioned Zrenjanin and said that today Zrenjanin's tavors, it's true, because some who came to the hair in 2000 before that wasn't very good from 1990 to 2000. The collapse has begun. Those who came to power in 2000 decided to sell out everything they had in mind and from very successful companies in Zrenjanin, from the meat industry that was more famous than Mitrovica, Sremsko Mitrovica like Bek, to many other companies. It's all destroyed, destroyed, sold out, and there's nothing. Goran Knezevic brought Drexlmeyer as mayor of Zrenjanin, which among other things recommended him because he knew how to treat investors in the best way. These Drexlemeyer people came to me a few days ago, I want to inform you, they are now increasing their business, increasing the number of employees, and we expect this number of employees to be increased in the next two, two and a half years in Zrenjanin, which will further mean to the Zrenjanin City Assembly and the Zrenjanins, but that is not enough, it will take more investors to make Zrenjanin the same industrial centre as it was. The area of Zrenjanin, you can live from Mužlje to Jank's Bridge, but you can't have a hundred thousand people, of those 100,000 people to give you 70,000 people to live in the city of Zrenjanin if you don't have a strong industry. We'll work on it. We're gonna change things, we're gonna fix them, and I think it's gonna be better than it was a few years ago. As far as the results are concerned, I've looked back on the work, and I'm very proud of the work. Of course you can always make things better and make them better. I myself have countless objections. It seems to me that I'm also the strongest critic, not a critic from bed at 10.15 when I get up, so I can publish one tweet and say, "Wow, I told him," but I'm criticizing what we haven't shown enough energy, enough work and enough effort. But we did great things and a lot of good things, and that's why I think it's important that we do it in the next period. To cheer you up about changing the political system. It is precisely because of this, I would say, crisis political situations both globally and regionally, and even in our country, if you will, in which we could not deal with these fundamental political issues, it is time to start these talks from autumn and, not as prime minister, but as at this moment the president of the important party in Serbia, I am ready to accept this dialogue and talk about, that the regional parties may also be represented in parliament, to see if we have four, five, six, seven, to talk to ourselves, to open the dialogue, I am fully prepared. I don't have any paper on which something was written. With empty paper, we will come before you and before each other in the National Assembly and sit down and talk about it. We are prepared to talk about this because in that case we would also have better representativeness in the National Assembly than we have today, and of course, in all other executive authorities. So that's what we're absolutely ready for. I don't know if I didn't say the name of the Duke, but I was talking about the Vojvodina, talking about the province. Perhaps, as you say, it's a semantic mistake that I didn't, because I specifically spoke about Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, without any intention whatsoever. I love the Duke just as much as you do. I won't let you love her any more than I would dare say you love her less than I do. As far as your roots from Vojvodina are concerned, they're both mine and therefore I don't think I'm any better than any of the Kings, Užica, Chačka, Nisa, Leskovec or any other place in Serbia, but that's why I'm certainly not worse. It is our job to treat every part of the Republic of Serbia equally. I think that's how he acted. I think I've visited every part of the Republic of Serbia. If you want to, Mr. Canak, I'm not sure we Central Serbian people would mind, because we subsidized the arrival of the largest number of investors right on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, even in the previous two years, and I have brought here a complete list, you will see that the most investors arrived in the territory of the municipalities of Ruma, Sremska Mitrovica, Pecinca, Srem, but also in northern Bacakh, especially in the territory of the city of Subotica, but also in the western district of Sombor and Apatin and Odzak, where the government of the Republic of Serbia has subsidized it much more, and we have even three districts, three districts throughout central Serbia, in which none of the investors subsidized by the Serbian government have arrived. So, that story doesn't stand. As for the story of the revenue and expenditures of the AP Vojvodina, we are ready to open this story, as I said, as soon as possible. But you only talk about rights and incomes, but don't talk about expenses and don't talk about obligations. I'll tell you that in some earlier term, I think in 2008 or 2007, Antic, they took over other categorized routes of people from the AP Vojvodina. Do you know what they did? They didn't do anything. Then they said -- we don't have any money for this, come on, Republic, come on, Serbia, do us these ways. And Serbia worked those paths, too, so much so you know. Don't tell me that there was no money, since there was money for all the officials and presidents of the municipal committees who suddenly founded, and vice presidents, who founded NGOs of certain political parties and instead of building roads for people in Vojvodina, the money was thrown into the well. Don't let me tell you about any other things. I seem to be, and with you, we've mentioned Nenad Pagonis, and I've left some messages, and I'd like to see what the problem is, if there is, even though kickboxing isn't an Olympic sport, I think we owe Mr. Pagonis everything we can do as a state. I think a better attitude towards athletes, especially towards top-notch we have, and you can ask them all. Everyone will confirm this to you, every man, and these wonderful rowers and cocoars, everyone will tell you that they never had more support from the Serbian state, never more support. I'll tell you why. Because you don't have to wait with us for money in the vault, because the minister and he get the money right away, because the financial situation is better, because we don't owe a day. When you get a warrant, it's worth it that day. I think Vanya, as we'll agree one, I think, the biggest, but one of the three or four greatest watermen of all time, waited one year at a time. (Radoslav Milojčić, from the post: After Šapić. What? I think he waited a year, a year and a half to get the money he promised that was incomparably smaller than he is today, for the gold medals he won. Today, his friends, his colleagues, they're not waiting for a day. The day they deliver our papers, it takes them three or four days, on the fifth day, they get that money. As for Mrs or Miss Keljmendi, you see, I think that's where you exaggerated, Mr Chanak, not someone else, not Marko Đuric, even though I tried to keep my mouth shut and didn't say anything about it in public, precisely because of the Olympic principles, precisely because of the sport and precisely because this young woman didn't do anything to us and nobody did anything to us. And I ran away from commenting on the stupidity of false analysts, false journalists who say it was signed in Brussels, etc., as if they didn't know how and how Kosovo became a member of the International Olympic Committee and various and semi-literate experts who are able to and believe and change to get some function, which gives us lectures on this matter, I kept everything quiet. I didn't say a word about her. I just said that I was interested in whether within a minute or two after that the VVS and SNN published information historical about it, etc., as if they were just waiting for it, nothing more than that. You told Mark Djuric that that's how Hitler did it. And what's that? By saying that someone has singled out part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, what is its constitutional obligation, as director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, as every member of the government? We swear here on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is part of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe one day someone will change him. Maybe I don't know what happens the day after tomorrow. Maybe I'm not the Prime Minister, maybe somebody else wins the election in a month, if they happen. No problem at all, but at this point it's not possible. You accused him of being Hitler because he respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Because he respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you told someone he was Hitler. Don't be angry, Mr. Chanak, that's what was inappropriate. In no way have we offended that obviously very successful and valuable athlete, her efforts, her efforts, her hard work, her hat down. What does this have to do with someone receiving Kosovo as an independent country, because by the statute you can only accept them as an independent country? They violated the statute as a member of the International Olympic Committee. As the UEFA did, it directly violates its own statute, as only UN members of the UEFA have the right to receive. And UEFA has received them even though they are not members of the UN. Now, if someone says the next day that we're not looking forward to winning the Kosovo football team, you're going to tell him that Hitler, Hitler is because he protects the Constitution of his country, the laws of his country, because he protects his people. Well, I guess that's their job to do. In doing so, do not tell me that I have done something against Albanians, because I believe that the structural and strategic agreement between Serbs and Albanians is crucial. These are the two largest nations in the Western Balkans. I first met with the Albanian prime minister after Enver Hodge and Tito since 1946. Those you have supported, who have been very brave, have not had the courage to do so, because I know that peace with Albanians is important to us, but just because peace is important to us with Albanians doesn't mean that I will give up the Constitution of my country, flag my country and say that our country's territory under the Constitution of the Republic belongs to someone else and I am now looking forward to their medals. Is that why I'm gonna be Hitler? Is that Hitler's main feature? The Jesse Owens case has nothing to do with it. Did anyone tell her that she was like this or like this, that other colors, other races, other nations? No one resented her for what nations she was. We were just talking about what state it belongs to and nothing else. I think it was his responsibility. If he had done otherwise, I think it would have been a disaster. I don't mind your attitude, I'm just against you calling someone Hitler, after millions and millions of people killed in the world, who didn't kill anyone, someone who didn't intend to. It was a little too harsh and it was harmful for our country, it was harmful for our country. Don't let me tell you that you were the main star in the Pristina media, and that's not because you were locked up here, because you were quoted here everywhere, but because the Albanians thought it suits them in the fight against the Serbs. That's all I want to tell you, and that's why I think it was a mistake. As far as the assets of public enterprises are concerned, and as far as what you're talking about, the railways, the Elektrovodini, yes, there's been a change in the EPS that I think they're good at. For you to know what was happening to us, we would never change that, and it had nothing to do with the Elektrovodina or the Elektroistok or any other part of the electroschumadium. Each one of them was completely independent of its headquarters and they would order numbers, transformers and we have 1,500 pieces in Elektroistok, the Elektrovodina doesn't have them and she's making a tender, and they're spending state money on us and vice versa. They're spending state money on the same company, but they don't talk to each other. We have a surplus in the same company, but this one's a real tender and spending our money. It can't be done today. This has nothing to do with Vojvodina's autonomy, but it has to do with the good functioning of the EPS, whose functioning remains unsatisfactory, but it's better and significantly better than it was before, which is confirmed by both the IMF and the World Bank and all the others who work with us on this matter. It's not a political issue, it's an economic issue. As for the proposal for systemic changes, I think there have been a lot of proposals for systemic changes. As for the Hungarian model, I talked about both Hungarian and Polish, I don't know if we will and how much power we will have, but we will fight, we will fight together with you and great if we are supported, to keep our country against the provisions and directives of the EU. If that's possible, we'll do our best. We've endured some more difficult things, and that's how we're going to behave. It has nothing to do with me supporting someone or someone else supporting a tycoon and telling me about the threat of small farmers, and all of them being held by one and the same tycoon in one place and then taking them out into the street when it suits him. We'll look to help real agricultural producers, as much as possible, but they'll have to change their habits, as we're going to change, but it has nothing to do with agricultural land and it doesn't occur to us to pass laws that allow the sale of agricultural land. In five, six, seven, eight years, when the new government is here, will someone make different decisions? Ask them that, for the next three, four years, for the term of office of this government, don't worry about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u943	Thank you. Mr. Canak, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u944	I thank you for your comprehensive response, but I'd only have to notice a few remarks. First, it's obvious that from the second or third hands you followed this controversy of mine. I didn't call anyone Hitler. I said that this idea of disqualifying anyone's sports success because of its origin or what it had its roots in 1936, so we had in 2006 the Croatian team came down from the winning podium because there was a SRJ team. You remember that as well as I do. You know very well that's exactly what I was talking about. I have two questions, if we're already going on about Kosovo and the Constitution. First question - did Serbia file an official protest with the Olympic Committee on Kosovo's participation and if so, what was the response to the Olympic Committee? The second question, you are talking about respecting the Constitution, but in your exposé yesterday, Kosovo is in the first place between EU membership, foreign policy, national security and diaspora relations. In other words, the AP Kosovo belongs to a combination of foreign policy, national security and relations with the diaspora, which is in full collegiate with what you have said is that you only adhere to the Constitution. If you stick to the constitution, as you say, then Kosovo cannot be part of the diaspora issue, nor foreign policy, nor does it have to do with EU membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u946	You're right, Mr. Canak, but you forgot to say it went right behind national security. Yes, Kosovo and Metohija are a key issue of national security and that's how it stands in the exposé, and now you're going to tell me what went before national security. What difference does it make? It was my introduction to what kind of political framework we're in. You can tie Kosovo and Metohija to whatever you want. I spoke within national security, tied to national security, where I think it's most appropriate. I think everything I said is true. I didn't just realize, except for the formal remarks, because you made a noise, bringing something that's out front and behind, and the scale of things you didn't get in, but okay. As for the disqualification due to origin, Marko Đuric did not comment on its origin, nor did anyone in any word attempt to disqualify the knowledge, dedication, work and diligence of Mrs or Miss Kiljmendi. So, all-faith, drop down for great success. What does that have to do with the fact that the IOC has given permission to something that is not the state to be presented at the Olympic Games? Yeah, we've put in a mok protest. What's their answer? I don't know. I know we've put up a protest on UEFA, and that's what the Fubola Alliance did. They didn't even answer. Here comes the minister. So they didn't even answer, and what's the UEFA going to answer you that directly violated her statutes? What's he gonna say to you? In the most direct way, a very precise member has one that regulates, breaks and doesn't care. And nothing, what do you do? It's obviously a political decision. You can't stand up to that. We will have, I suppose, one closed to tell you what is happening today on this issue and that there are current pressures on nine countries, great pressures, to recognise Kosovo's independence, which is being managed by one country, an important country, and now there are various financial matters and many other problems, which I would not talk about at this point, but of course the Government cares and that's our job. I didn't answer you in the first part of something that's very important, and these are roads through Vojvodina. Yes, through Vojvodina, you have, from Belgrade to Horgos, about 190km of highway, you have from Shid to Belgrade also a highway. The construction of Novi Sad – Ruma – Šabac road begins. We also talk about it with the Romanians, see if there are two ideas on how to bring Zrenjanin together, but also Vršac with Temisvara. We are talking about how to make fast roads, i.e. a skeleton for Belgrade, Zrenjanin, especially after the construction of the Pupin bridge that shortened that road, and it seems to me that in many ways it has helped people who live in the middle and that part of South Banat. That and the way we think, we do, as I think we've helped the citizens of Kickinda in opening border crossings, as I think we've helped the citizens of kickinda by being together with the leadership of the ISK, after four and a half, five years, closed, key, most important factories in kickinda... Today, that factory works and you see the smoke again at the entrance to Kikind, in the headquarters of northern Banat. So, I think we've done a lot, and I think people in Vojvodina have seen it, and they can respect it and they can appreciate it, and for all these other issues, we're open to talking to you and you'll never have a problem, that we come to talk, and I think we're ready to accept some of your ideas on the political system and certain changes you're talking about. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u947	Mr. Canak, no more replicas. You have six minutes when everyone goes by, so somewhere around the morning. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u948	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, guests, we had the opportunity yesterday to listen to the longest exposés in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism. For nearly six hours, the prime minister read a comprehensive plan as he has now said the government's work plan for the next four years. We have listened to these exposés expecting to hear concrete deadlines, laws that will be passed over a certain period and what it is that will distinguish this government from all previous governments in which this majority took part in the previous four years. That's why the election was called. At that time, the prime minister, now said -- we need elections to get a braver, more determined government, a government with more energy that will have to start working quickly to solve citizens' problems. Then after the election, something happened that wasn't explained, not yesterday, not in the last 100 days or more since the election. What were you waiting for? Why did it take so long to get a proposal on the government's composition and government's programme? And there's no promised and announced speed in that program. We don't see that energy, we don't see any new ideas. Most ministers, or members of the government, are two-thirds old, one-third new, is that enough for the situation in which Serbia is located? No, I don't. What we could hear in the exposé yesterday was a lot of things we heard two years ago. But now with a new deadline, somewhere back in the future. Let's say, wages, the term of office was two years ago, a little over two years ago when the previous government said it would cut public sector wages by 10%, and then by the end of 2016 we'll have bigger salaries in the public sector than we have today. Will that promise be fulfilled? Will the salaries at the end of 2016 be higher than they were in April 2014? He won't. We know that. Now we have new promises from the prime minister says – at the end of the term of office of this government salary will be bigger than ever in modern Serbian history. When the matter is in infrastructure, here is the infrastructure, and the prime minister spoke without the exact name of the culprit, the delay in opening the first section on Corridor 11 even though he said in an exposé two years ago that the Belgrade highway – Bolare would be completed in four years' time in the government's term. Today, that promise is gone. It is said that it will be completed 50km from Obrenovac to Preljina, that something has been agreed to build from Surcin to Obrenovac, and that it will be seen how to resolve the share from Preljina to Požega. Further construction to Bolar to Montenegro is not mentioned in the exposé, as is not mentioned by the construction of the road from Novi Sad, Ruma towards Šapec. There's no such thing in the exposé. He said now the prime minister, but he didn't say and he didn't write in the exposé. He just said it. As has been said, by April 2017 both sides of Corridor 10 will be completed, we are now talking about mid- 2018 in the expose – by mid- 2018, do not make me open and read here on which page it writes, writes by mid- 2018. I don't think it's going to happen then, because it's the manner and result of this government's work over the past four years. Constantly making promises, people don't even know when it's said anymore, the constant delay of that better life. On the contrary, we have an increase in poverty that now takes serious dimensions in Serbia. In fact, 150,000 Serbian citizens live below the poverty line today, 650,000 and 150,000 more than two years ago, and two million people are at risk of poverty. There's not a single word in this exposé about how the government will deal with this problem. There is no announcement of any strategy, plan, concrete measures, something that would help reverse one bad trend that has been going on for four years. I call on the prime minister to be one of his government's priorities, to fight poverty. Today one third of young people are at risk of poverty, 100,000 children live in families that can't even provide basic food supplies. We also have an inefficient social protection system, 25% of the world's most vulnerable 24% of the resources, and 1/4 of the well-being citizens get 28% of the total social benefits. We have an inefficient system that hasn't been reformed in years. He has been inherited, but not done enough in the past two or four years to change that. There are proposals for concrete solutions in this analysis by the World Bank. What could help in that fight is an increase in the minimum labour price. That's the only thing the prime minister was talking about yesterday. He spoke: We will try, we will see, perhaps. The minimum labour price increased last time in 2014, to 121 dinar per hour, before that was 114. Today, people who work for that minimum labour price are socially endangered. We need to change the system so that people who work are not social cases, at least 10% of the minimum labour price increase and the prime minister himself talked about it, would contribute to a minimum increase in the better, more decent life of Serbian citizens. But the mandate did not commit to doing so, not in this year, not in the next, not in anyone else. We've been listening again to the analysis and the accusations of who's responsible for the country's poor condition. Hundreds and hundreds of times false were used again, but now some new ones. He said Mr. Vukic had increased the profit tax in 2011, which led to lower investment, to extract capital from Serbia. That's not true. The company's profit tax increased in 2013. So this majority did this increase from 10% to 15%, effectively from 6% to 15%, and led some companies, domestically, foreign investment in the Serbian economy, because they were looking for someplace more favourable and where profit tax is lower. He told the prime minister that it was a poor policy of economic growth based on consumption and on the development of the service sector. That is true, but that policy was changed in 2008. , It was valid until 2008, the government began to find investors to invest in Serbia's production. The investor is "Fiat", the biggest exporter. I agree with the prime minister that we have missed the chance to strengthen the supply industry that would produce parts here for "Fiat", not that most of those parts that are still being imported today. But the government did it for four years, one by 2012, and this government had four years to change it. She didn't do anything. What we're trying to say - a repeat story is that we need more investment and that agriculture is the greatest chance for Serbia's development. But what are the effects in the previous, maybe not the biggest, I apologize, it's not the biggest, but it certainly is the chance of agriculture, we hear it from mandate to mandate, not just this government, every government in the previous 20 and over years. Agricultural production reduces its participation in Serbia's GDP. In 2011, it was 9%, now it's 7.7%, and that chance remains untapped. Will this government and the new minister be able to take that chance? We'll see. What she had done before, she was working on a reduction in subsidies. Skillful amendments to the law, changing only one word that it says – subsidies are determined in the amount of... , well some figures, by changing that word - from word - to subsidy are reduced by 12 thousand per hectare, say, to four thousand as much as for 2016. What we think is important and what the prime minister is talking about is education as a way to become more competitive, as a way to keep young people in Serbia and as an important newspaper, he announced the introduction of dual education. This is not the first time and two years ago a dual education was announced. Apparently, the previous minister wasn't up for it, because there's one part of the public that thinks it's not a good solution. We believe that dual education makes sense and can achieve the effects that are spoken of here, which is to reduce youth unemployment, develop the spirit of entrepreneurship and everything else that stands here, only if certain conditions are met. Without it, we will bring about further collapse of the education system, making even greater injustices and doing even more damage to Serbia's future. We haven't heard whether and in any way, it's not even in the exposé, it's not detailed or speaking, and it could have been found in those six hours of speech, exactly how this government wants to introduce dual education. Is there an interest in the economy, that's the first condition. There's got to be an economy that's gonna take young people to work. Is this economy ready to pay these young people who will work and be paid more than social aid for three or four days, as is the case in other countries where dual education works? Young people who are in this education system are paid by the employer. Their work education lasts four to six years. Do we have ready masters who will train them, who have to have a pedagogical degree so they can do the job? Will there also be a way to regulate the possibility that these young people, if they have a desire, return to their ambitions to a normal system of education, graduate and continue their university studies or vocational studies? These are very important things and preconditions that must be met in order for dual education to make sense. We are ready to co-operate with the Minister and the Government in this project and offer knowledge and experience. What is marking this government at the very beginning is a host of affairs, an affair of members who have been ministers so far, an affair of members who today, or tomorrow, whenever they are to become ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think that tells us about how and what will happen to us in the future, and that doesn't make us optimistic, and that's one of the reasons why certainly our parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party won't vote for this government. The prime minister spoke of the development of entrepreneurship as a chance for Serbia's development, as this year of entrepreneurship... (Alexander Wolf, from the scene: I said every year.) )......................................................................................................... how is it supposed to be every year and I agree with you, but let's see what the problem is, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Finance - why has there been no new regulation for two years on the establishment of taxes for pausal entrepreneurs? Why do small businesses who pay their taxes on a flat-rate basis pay the tax according to the 2014 solutions? Why are no tax solutions issued for 2015 and 2016? What about those who started their job in these two years? They have no tax solution. Without that tax solution, they can't get into the system, they can't ask, they can't get credit, they can't develop their job they want to do. When will that be brought, Mr. Wolfie? You can tell us now and how now if they come in the next few weeks these tax solutions, of course cumulatively in two years, how will these people pay them, how will the government make it easier for them to develop their job? The tax administration reform is also in this exposé and stands in every one. In the term of office of this government, we had four, five changes as Director of the Tax Administration, v.d. status. It's mostly BIA personnel. I don't know where this policy was considered a good policy so that people from the BIA can manage the IRS in the best way? I think that's a bad way to go and get the results to talk about it. Something about cultural development, the need for culture to be in every city, and we agree on that. The legacy of the state of the previous minister's media is, in our opinion, catastrophic. The prime minister said that freedom of the media must follow the responsibility. With that sentence, I certainly agree, but the problem today in Serbia is that the most irresponsible tabloid media that supports the government in which anyone who criticises the government's work will be found through the worst hook. I think it's coming from the top. And today we heard, said Mr. Vukic that those who criticize him sleep until ten o'clock, lie down all day and do nothing. Anyone who criticises Serbia today is an unemployed, ignorant and incompetent, and in such an atmosphere, Serbian society cannot progress. I want to join Mr. Chank's invitation, and that wasn't what we were talking about in the exposé, and that's what I wanted to talk to you about, the need for reforming the political system. It's needed in many segments. We had one farce here in parliament last summer, a political system reform action team was created. He had several sessions and no results. As you know, there is a change in the Constitution by the end of 2017, and I think that the dialogue on reform of the political system, and therefore the Constitution, is needed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u949	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u950	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u951	Thank you. Just don't, please, anything about Parliament calling it a farce, I would beg you, because you are part of Parliament and you are humiliating yourself by such a characterization of the work of this home. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u952	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I've also been thinking about the fact that yesterday I expressed particular gratitude to people who don't belong to the majority, who were in the O.R. and who listened to what I was saying, whether to answer at all to those who didn't want to listen, and that's their obligation, what I'm saying, whether to answer them at all. I'll answer, not because of you, because I see you really didn't listen to what I was saying. You've obviously had a hard time tracking even television transmissions. I have resolved because of the citizens of Serbia and the seriousness of the subject, however, to answer you, with the gratitude that, having misunderstood or not listening to what I said yesterday, you have confirmed some of the thesis that I have raised. In fact, if you'd listened to what I said about agriculture, I was just talking about changing your participation in GDP and how in America today 2% of those who contribute to agriculture, and it was 47% in 1905. The structure of the economy has changed. I was talking about the necessity of re-industrialisation, especially the smart industry. All you said was a complete fiction. You quoted yourself from somewhere, not me. Nothing about what you were talking about I wasn't talking about, especially in that way. Agriculture must be modernised. A lot of other things must be done in agriculture. Don't forget, it's true, it's not reduced subsidies, as I see, you probably made a lapus, it's not just about hectares, it has to do with money. So it's 4,000, 4,000 to 9,000 or 11,000. So it's about dinars, not hectares. That's right, that's just the difference, the dinars and the hectares, it doesn't matter much, but you guessed the numbers. So, the bottom line is the next one. We made one mistake about the vans and tractors. Even though I said we did it yesterday, we'll fix it as soon as possible. That's what our officers made a mistake in rural development over sublegal acts, and we'll be able to make it right as soon as possible. I will personally talk to the villagers about such an opportunity that the Serbian government will offer absolute benefit. We give, of course, subsidies for small fruit machinery and don't forget that we paid what little we promised, that we paid everything without a day's delay and that we paid over 10 billion old debts. So we cleaned up everything that was left behind and what was done. I'll never court anyone, not the peasants, not anyone else. I think it's important that we see what it is, how much and how we can help it, and of course that it is consistent with our financial opportunities. You asked a question and you said it was terrible that we were waiting for the government. So, I don't know what's so terrible, because all of your governments have been waiting a lot longer and much longer, until the last minute. We've been waiting for them so far and so far, I'm going to remind some of them here, that they've been coming and praying from some other party and from your party, and we've been begging us since we were in that National Assembly building to let you vote the government by midnight because the state will have to go on temporary funding, because you've been waiting for the last day of the deadline at midnight to form a government. You today when we have as much time as you want, we don't rush anywhere, a month before any deadline ends, you're transferring me what the government isn't formed. The government was working, the current government was working. We didn't take a bath, we didn't go to the bathroom. We weren't lazy or anything. We've been working, and we haven't missed a single job. Everything the state needed to do, we did, we did. You said here – new promises, salaries and pensions. Yes, their salaries will be, above all, for educators and health workers, I mean before the end of this year, but on healthy feet, like they used to have when we talk about the public sector. Already today we have total salaries higher than we had, because the private sector has grown. I guess that's what you're up for. I guess all the laws we've passed and everything we've done we've brought about that. The situation is completely different, not comparable. When you talk about trends, all trends are good, especially economic. There is no bad economic trend. That's what the IMF and the World Bank are talking about. That's what everybody's talking about. Do Serbs live richly? They don't live. And when did they live? What, did we not live between the two world wars better than the Croats and the Slovenians? Well, look at the analysis, we're not. Look what it says about this period and Milan Stojadinović, look what he said. And then we were incomparably weaker economically, incomparably poorer. We're gonna catch up with them slowly today, and we're gonna catch up with them fast. Some of them can't, and some of them we'll get there within five or six years if this trend continues, after decades and decades. I didn't understand, since I didn't make any special new promises, but you didn't understand how social dialogue works. I don't think it was your intention. I'd say yesterday what the government will accept and how much increase in minimum earnings you'd be satisfied with, but I wouldn't have the right to say that, because it has to be the result of the social dialogue of trade unions and employers. We want to hear what they're going to say, both of us. We've heard trade unions demanding an increase from 121 to 140 dinars. Employers say – we are ready for 123-124. Of course it depends on the good work of the government. The government wants us to see how long and how much they can agree on. Then we'll go out with our proposal. If I had told you yesterday exactly how much we were willing to accept it, you would have told me – you took the jurisdiction of employers and unions. Then we get to Serbia that in fact whatever you do, it's not good and it's bad. If I said that, I'd be guilty of this, and today is my fault because I didn't say exactly. Whatever you do, it's your fault. It is the curse of the work I do. I don't have any problem with that, just be honest, so say it's true. That's right. If I had said, you would have told me – how could you say that, and you didn't keep the social economics council, there was no social dialogue between employers and unions? Although I have unequivocally announced, and as good news for the citizens – we will go to a minimum profit increase, and that is not an easy decision. It's not an easy decision, and I'll tell you why. Not because of state finances, not because of public finances, we have no problem with that, for us little things, for the state sector, absolutely small things. It's like we got two more medals, nothing more than that. It's literally a little thing. We don't have many on minimum income in the public sector. So I'll tell you where the problem is. If you often increase, that's why it was a smart decision not to increase in 2014 and that's why we have an increase in the number of new investors in the previous two years, especially autocomponents here, because they saw security and stability, because among other things they could count on how much their profits are if they have such minimal earnings. If we hadn't had that, we wouldn't have come here. Now we're ready to change that, but we need to talk to them, too, because we don't want those that you brought in, who I see today, are very modern to criticise everyone, like "Jura" etc. I don't criticize them. I defend what you did, too, because I think it's good for Serbia. Because they feed six and a half thousand mouths. The fact that he's ruled some kind of crazy, actually insane movement in Serbia, you know, according to Ned Ludo in history, when they've been destroying machine workers, when they didn't know what to do with the unsatisfactory working conditions, I'm absolutely against it, and I think it's a disaster and I'm going to fight it. It's like -- hey, it's terrible that I have extended hours. So what if you have extended hours? It's been paid. There's a lot of people who have unpaid hours, so what? Is that the scariest thing? Well, he didn't, so he didn't. What do you need? To destroy everything, to destroy everything, to drive everyone out of Serbia, to remove everything from Serbia, to send such a signal to someone. I'm absolutely against it, and that's why I'm going to protect such investors, because they support a large number of families in our country. Six and a half thousand employees have "Jura" at the moment, from Raca to Leskovec. Is there a bit of a poor neighborhood behind us where we didn't have factories? As I should say about Cromberg and Schubert coming to Kruševac, which should be two-and-a-half, then four thousand afterwards. You said I didn't mention it, that was the most interesting thing to me, you say – you didn't mention "Ruma" Shabac. Well, I didn't because I skipped certain pages yesterday. First you're criticizing me why my exposé is long, and then you're criticizing me for not saying everything in that exposé. I should have been talking for 12 hours then. Whatever I did, you'd find a reason to attack. I confirmed to you that "Ruma" Sabac today, before you called, I was talking about it and it wasn't enough for you either. It was my fault that I didn't say something, even though I spoke for six hours, respecting the National Assembly, and you went out and it was hard for you to sit down and listen to what I was saying. You say, "A greater number of the poor than ever." Well, just in that World Bank study you were talking about, it was in that World Bank study you mentioned that poverty was reduced by 1.6% in Serbia last year. Well, it's not enough, of course it's not enough. Of course, we have a large number of poor people, but the very study that you quoted and talked about, it says in particular that it is highly targeted, that Serbian laws have excellently targeted persons in need of social protection especially for the poor. Of course there are shortcomings, but don't forget that we pay each and every one for 3.3 million people, when we talk about social protection, 166 billion dinars and not a single dinar is ever late, not 10 or 15 or a month, and there has been no cuts, no cuts. We took care of the poorest all the time. Without a reduction, when all other citizens had to pay the price of the disastrous rule of the previous period, the destruction of public finances and without inflation. When I say - those who are working abilities, so that you get 11,000 dinars, 8,000 dinars, this much or so, so come out and sometimes clean the leaves, help your country that gives it to you. Then the main criticism - hey, so now they're going to have to work for those who are receiving social assistance. Really? It's like work has become some sort of the scariest thing in the world. Imagine, they'll have to do something for the money they're getting from the state. Great, if it's nice without the state, don't get the money from the state. Then you don't have to do anything. We don't have a problem. We want no one to get money from the state, so let's work privately, that's our ideal, that's what we stand for, that's what we fight for. It's just that we've been here in Serbia for years and decades, all of us, and everybody's been lying about it all by themselves -- let's talk about it, folks, here's the money, there's money, we'll give you money. Now, I can't resolve the issue of privatising Serbian clubs and I admit it to you, and you're telling me -- can you and what you're not? I can't solve it. Stronger people, stronger. I'm small and I'm not strong enough to get through it and admit it – disaster. What do I do? You say: What shall we change about the year of entrepreneurship? You say, I said, this is the year. No, I said it's every year of entrepreneurship. All the opposite of what you said. Because the development of the entrepreneurial spirit that we lost in the '60s, the 70s in self-government socialism, and then in the '90s and working habits, where "combination" became a word that replaces work, since 2000 thieving, robbery and corruption replaced that word. Then the question arises, and what shall we do? We have to explain to people. I was just talking yesterday about what you said I wasn't talking about, about our masters, about our plumbers, about the welders we don't have anymore, we don't have any more. Because there was an ideal for you to bring a diploma and tell me – the state has to give me a job. It's all our fault. It's not your fault or mine, and you know I'm right. It's all our fault, because it was easier. Well, it can't be any easier. Someone had to tell our people – it can't be easier. It's better to be harder for something to happen at all. If we had continued to make it easier and to buy coalition partners and buy voting will, we would not have to pay for neither pensions nor wages nor anything else today. You know that, too. All I'm saying is I know that you know well and you know I'm telling the truth. I take it great when you do it for political reasons, it's politics, I understand everything. I just can't understand you saying that I said something I didn't say or said something I didn't say. About dual education, thank you for saying you wanted to participate, that's a huge shift. We can't do it without it. That's what our entrepreneurial spirit is developing. Someone else will tell you that in 20 years in Serbia, it will be undeveloped, it is in the cradle, it is literally in the cradle. We won't be able to move it in four years, almost, to be maybe twice as good as today, which will also be the cradle. That's a tough change. Everyone's against it, Marco. Show me that in our educational, educational system that's not against it. Now you want me to tell you why they're against it? Everyone's against it. Is that why they're right? No, they're not, they're showing results. It's true, I'm guilty because I want us to push something against which they're all against. It's just, you know, twice a month, I'm getting a report from the vault about how much we paid for the pensions, so you're looking at how much you paid for the salaries and what the balance is on the bill. Someone has to be responsible for 1,760,000 pensions and someone has to be responsible for another 800,000 public sector salaries. You have to pay it off without an hour late every month, and then you have to keep an eye on how it's going to be in a month and a year. And whoever thinks that everything from the sky is falling, that's where I think about a lot of people in our country, it's easy for them, whatever they care about, they can do it. As far as I'm concerned, tax solutions, to try to answer everything, a few facts. Undoubtedly, the most convincing was built in this term, no doubt. When you compare years, it's not literally for comparison, it's at least three, four, and even five to one. Am I satisfied? No, I didn't. It would be bad if I were satisfied. Yes, this year will be, instead of August 25th, in October. It would have been August 25th, if I had agreed to cheat into two tunnels to open one pipe. I didn't want to agree to this kind of scam and tell the people, "Here you are, look at the nice way," and two tunnels, we could only go on one side and go in one lane through those two tunnels. I didn't want to agree to that. We will end next year, Corridor 10, which is the most important for Serbia and which will increase the number of tourists, which will dramatically increase the potential in addition to our services, so we will end both. Is he late? Do you want me to tell you what kind of problems there is in one tunnel and another, what problems there are in Bancarev, what problems we have about your repeated tender in Dimitrovgrad, about the bad documentation, but everyone will tell you, every time they tell you. That's why I'm not asking as an excuse, and I'm not asking to tell you what happened to us in Malaysia and where your water leaks and what happens to you. What are you gonna do, that's life, that's what you're gonna do. But is it better? Well, it's better, it's much better, it's incomparable. It is incomparably better and more developed infrastructure than it has been, people can see it, in the most difficult geographical area in the Republic of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, you're right. That's exactly what we're finishing, and now the regulation will be passed. But there's one problem, and that's the lawyer's resistance. Why else did we bother? We went to a lot of trouble for the cabbies. We had a fight months ago to help the taxi drivers who didn't pay taxes, so we watched as we donated the question of the reprogramme, so the IMF pushed us, so he put it into our priority action. We're not giving you a revision just for the cabbies, etc. We fought literally six months every day for cab drivers, every day. That was why we acted like one. And today why he's late, because lawyers don't want to. Let me tell you frankly that people in Serbia know that. So these things aren't that simple. I know that you know that too, and many others know it, only it's the easiest thing to do over the back – hey, Wolfie, whatever you do, when you don't, I'm going to criticize you, and when you do, I'm going to say, lawyers are right. Right? That's right. Unfortunately, it is a problem in Serbia. Because you all know the problems we're facing, only no one will say that. When they yell "Wolf" in the stadium, you say -- not only those groups, they all yelled, as you should be proud to yell "Wolf Gay". And that's your official statement, Supermaster! Why didn't you say so when they said "Save Serbia and kill yourself", one, the other, the third, the fifth, the tenth. Look, I don't mind talking about it, dead cold and I don't care. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: it is still harder to kill this. So, I accept our guilt for one more thing, about that dialogue Maya said. So we will continue to bring concrete results by the end of the year, because it is important that we talk about this. I'm not going to answer to you about the tabloids and everything else, it shows me that you're not looking at it and you're not really following everything, you're just looking at what's hurting you. You don't see the other part. Because some newspapers that you like, which pretend to be serious, are much worse than tabloids and insults at the expense of certain families and by insults of the most difficult, stupidest, and lies and fiction, not to speak. So it's better if we don't measure it, it's private owners, their thing, let them do whatever they want. It's better, and everyone has the right to seek justice in front of the competent judicial authorities, and I think it's normal. What has changed, Mr. Djurisic, is that no one escapes from the problem, and when we say there is a problem, we really see it as a challenge and we want to solve these things. I know you can name countless problems, I would say if it were possible, and it wasn't, and more than countless, but at least some of these problems were solved because we're solving and we've solved some. If nothing, and today we have a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it's August 9, or August 10, I don't know exactly. Tell me, please, when did this happen, but don't mention to me that one year, which was Djordjevic, when Dinkic closed the vault and didn't let anything be paid to say, despite all the big privatisation revenues, that he could say there was a surplus? There's no such thing in our modern history. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from town: Year 2007) No, it could have been the sixth or seventh Chad, not the eighth, the eighth was a disaster. It could've been the sixth or seventh, when we had big privatisations that counted for you as budget income, and we're now without any privatisation, without selling the airport, without anything we're telling you we have a surplus. We're talking about clean, healthy, lasting measures that have yielded results. Now that's a big change. That's why I'm telling you, people can see it, feel it. If some were in power, they would cheer if ours didn't win any medals, because they could never pay. We cheer to win 100 medals, we can pay anything. There's no problem, the same day. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: E, had you not sent Tom there.) ) Look, Mr. Seselj, how many Saturdays, when ours start to lower medals and don't worry, we'll be able to pay for all that on the same day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u953	Replica. The word is Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u954	Dear Mr. Vukic, 100 meters from here, there's a billboard that says it's 2016, a year of entrepreneurship. It was one of the government's pre-election programs. I'm not saying it's bad, and I'm not saying it shouldn't be next and every year, but I'm talking about what the government is doing, specifically in the entrepreneurship year to help entrepreneurs. You have now stated that there are problems and all problems and why the regulation has not been amended for almost two years and there are no new tax solutions. But it's your job, it's your job, to solve these problems, so you've been running, looking for citizens' support and getting how much you've got, yes, we're not going to talk about how it's done. You've been saying that the most highways have been built so far, and I agree with you. But I don't know if we can agree that every mile of that highway, that financing it, the project was launched in 2008, 2009 and 2010, and today the Chinese and Azerbaijani end up in Corridor 11. Who arranged that? And the work on Corridor 10, who it is, at what time he set it up. And I'm asking you, what mile of highway did you arrange? You had a campaign announcement that with the Chinese, we were going to do this stock from Surchin to Obrenovac. Is it signed, did the projecting start? I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u955	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u956	What about the rest of the infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u957	Time. Thank you. Branka Stamenkovic, Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u958	Please, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107 of Section 2 defines that no direct address is allowed in the National Assembly to the Members of Parliament. In this regard, I ask you to remind, in accordance with Article 109, both the MPs who refer to each other and the prime minister who directly enters the communication and addresses the MPs directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u959	Okay, thank you. That's impossible, since these MPs are speaking to the prime minister today, then he's trying to respect the MP, look him in the eye, and answer him. There's no replica between the two of us, I'm just trying to explain. The word is Alexander Vukitch. There's a full list of MPs who have called, or authorized, so I'm just asking for an apology because I'm going to have to delete many. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u960	So, just to answer, I hope I didn't insult you for calling you by name. I don't understand why the wooden lawyers had to show up, I didn't say anything ugly, I named by name the man I've known for decades and more, so I don't understand what this is about, but I guess, just to say something. So let me answer this. As far as "The Year of Entrepreneurship" is concerned, this is "The Year of Entrepreneurship" and I said it yesterday, but I said it wasn't this year but that all years of entrepreneurship are because it's our most important job. And in "The Year of Entrepreneurship" when you say what we did, we singled out 16 billion as the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an incentive for entrepreneurship. We've only singled out for, of course, that you know, when I say 16 billion, four billion is a grant. Four billion is 35 million euros. Thirty-five million euros are given for start-ups mostly for women, 50% of the necessary investment for women entrepreneurs, 30% for all others. We've really given a lot, and it's still not enough. I wish it was three, four times more, but it's still the difference, but we showed that we did something about it. As far as the highways are concerned, whoever told you that didn't advise you well, you did, I'd have some objections, but I'll never talk about it in public. We can do that somewhere, because you know when you run the state you have more important things than political blows, it's about Corridor 10, around the Ljig-Preljina section, about the height agreed, about the contract that's signed. Right, the design was done mostly badly, so we had to do redesigns on multiple occasions. It's not your fault. It's always going to happen because it's all of ours, and it's not often that our institutes make mistakes, that we have problems, that they don't go out on the field in the best way, that they draw one, and the other is really a state, etc. But you have to understand one thing, for what you're saying, you haven't even paid a dinar, you've agreed to pay the state 300 million, and that's what we pay for. We pay, we work. You said, "This would be nice to have it here, and it costs so much." And we give money, and we do. There, that's just the difference, nothing more than that. Secondly, it's because of these problems you're talking about that we're going through a lot of trouble on the road around Dimitrovgrad. It's just because of these problems. Don't let me tell you about the average Bancareva, Chiflika - road stop. Every day my head just hurts because of it, which doesn't mean that someone in the future won't have a headache from the problems we leave behind, but it didn't work out enough, and I know it was intentional. You want me to tell you why, Marco, it's not done enough? Not because of the desire of this or that, he was even a good team who wanted to do it, an expert team. Can't be done because there's no money. Because public finances were a mess and a mess. That's why it couldn't, not because there wasn't a wish, not because Mrkonjic can't do highways, he can do better than everyone else, not because this is one way or another, but because he doesn't have money. You can't finance it. Because you can force once domestic contractors to leave and do Feketic, Novi Sad or Feketic-Sabotica. They stop after that, and they can't do anything anymore, because there's no money. Today there's money, today we're paying for the situation. You know what they told me about one of those shares? They say, “It is our fault that we did not pay, and we were 34 days late. They don't get along exactly in the days. Imagine when it came to criticizing you terribly for a 34-day delay. As long as it used to be, we were 13 years late paying everybody together. Thirteen years. Now 34 days. These are facts, and that's why I'm telling you it wasn't a bad idea. Tadic understood the importance of infrastructure. He understood perfectly, and he knew it well. It's not hard for me to say. I, unlike you, am not shocked by hate and that I always have to say something against and that I hate it. He knew it well, but he couldn't do it because there's no money in the vault and the end of the story. That was a key problem. One more thing. You said, you got as much as you got, and we won't talk about the way. We want to talk about the way. We will and I am convinced that we also want to open a debate in this House and talk about it. We just want to talk about a way to talk, because when you talk about a way only two years ago or three years ago, anyway, you ran such a campaign, the most disgusting campaign I've ever seen in my life. I'll remind the citizens with those disgusting videos against Tomislav Nikolic that you broadcast 5,000 times a day in the worst possible way. And who was doing this against you? Nobody. Who did that in any way? Well, no one. We had a clean campaign, we had a good campaign, a fair campaign. You know it well. But there's no campaign, there's no political system that could've brought some more than three or five or six percent. There's only one problem, you're better at everything, everybody loves you so much, it's just that when people come to vote, they won't vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u961	I would like to ask the honourable MPs to inform you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need to elect the Government of the Republic of Serbia within the legal time limit. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u962	That's under Article 106. Rules of Procedure. You have a majority of almost 170 MPs here, maybe more. The Rules of Procedure say no one can interrupt the speaker, but no one can stop the MPs from applauding. There are so many of you that your applause is far the strongest. That's why I demand that the president of the National Assembly warn the guests who are here to keep quiet and watch and have to be objective, neutral, that they can't applaud, because then it turns out, they can't applaud, except at the formal sessions, as they can't vote. They are here to control the work of the National Assembly, not to plead. Then it turns out you got twice as many votes in the election. Then you got 120%. I demand that guests be warned that they can't applaud and win.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u963	Thank you. I certainly ask, therefore, the guests who are, and even if they are, I was not really paying attention, the MPs from the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, which is not prohibited, but I did not really pay attention to whether any of those present at the gallery had tapped. Please don't do that in the future, although among the invited, I apologize in advance, there are representatives of different embassies here, so I'm guessing it doesn't apply to them. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: tomorrow when the oath is made. ) We will see when the oath will take place, but I ask those present not to comment on the presentations and not to touch anyone. In article 106 of the truth, no patting has been defined. If we stick to the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There may be interference. There's no such thing in article 106, but we're moving on. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u964	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Vukic, is hardly a greater difference between the seriousness of the situation in which the whole society and the atmosphere in which this debate on your Expose and the Government is under way. Your convincing victory in the elections, everything that came in these three months after them, and then what you said yesterday at first looks at Serbia describes as a country where everything is known, as a country where the future is absolutely certain, just as you announced in your performance yesterday. It wasn't a problem for me to listen to you. I have never left the congregation, and I have always done everything within the limits of what is normal for me to be as strong as possible in the congregation. It is your right, it was given to you by the citizens of Serbia to speak for 20 minutes, as at the time of Mirko Cvetkovic, six hours or as long as you think it takes to convince parliament and the country that they have not made a mistake, that you know what is to be done and that you are able to do it. Your six hours, Mr. Vukic, have passed in detailed analysis of jobs that you have done more or less precisely, perhaps often too extensively with descriptions of what you want to do. It was more like an almost professional debate that was being held within each resistor. I don't think you did it by accident. I think that's what you wanted to convince people and us that you're very serious and that you know what has to be done in the time ahead. I'll tell you what I consider to be a big flaw. Six hours, and so little politics, Mr. Wolfie. I don't think that's an accident. There aren't many people, I think I can count myself on the fingers of one hand in this room that have enough political experience and certainly you're among them. I don't think it was an accident, and that's what I'm worried about. When we first spoke here in parliament you as a representative of the coalition that comes to power, and I as a representative of the opposition party in 2012, it was a harsh polemic, it was not rude, there was no quarrel, but it was a harsh controversy, because of the great political differences that existed between us at the time, I think on YouTube is one of the most visible and today. Today, you've been keeping your mouth shut or speaking skillfully of avoiding slippery terrain, and I want to talk about it, and I don't believe that we're that different anymore. It is not because you succeeded after Radulovic to give me some credit, nor is it because there is no other political path ahead of us, but because when you came to power you spoke openly very often about the problems in the country as we have always done. That's why I want us back on that policy, because the third government of your party and your ruling coalition is talking about a handful of problems. Some are partially solved, some are solved, some are not touched, but Mr. Wolf, we're not talking about the cause of all this. You've often been here today and yesterday, you haven't even appealed, it's imperative, you've insisted on change, you've said there's nothing more you can do and you won't agree to such behavior at any cost. I think you were talking about the mentality of this country and the need for it to change. But, Mr. Vukic, all of our problems, these unfinished roads, that railroad that travels slower than nearly 200 years ago, that ruined education, that failed industry that we're going to reindustrize. Here, Mr. Knezevic comes from Zrenjanin. The Americans filmed "Servo Mihalje" movies and "Servo Mihalj" fed, produced 20% of the country's food of nearly 25 million people. All that's gone down and what's wrong today has a cause in the wrong politics. We haven't talked much, certainly not hidden in the meantime, but I think you know very well, so I'd like you to say something about it. In what way will we solve it, give an answer to three key questions that depend on the future of this country, which depends on the arrival of a new investor, which depends on the assessment of a young man to stay here to live, not to leave, by a doctor to continue to heal, rather than to seek happiness elsewhere, and not to list all the negative statistics of Serbia today. Kosovo, Bosnia, Europe or Russia, these are three major political issues. We partially responded to them when we made the right moves. That in itself wasn't enough, and today, it seems to me, in such complicated circumstances, we don't even have the room for maneuvering we've had so far. Well, after that, a very complicated relationship in the region and finally, and most importantly, our mutual relations. This tragically divided country, it can do nothing but fail, because the ideas behind which you stand here in your exposé are ideas that require time and seek the willingness of society to commit itself to these goals, and the obligation of politicians not to dispute them, but to only compete, so that, let's say, I criticise the choice of one of your ministers, with a message that maybe someone behind whom I stand would have made the highway faster, finished the "Kostolac", more effectively re-industrizing Serbia, more effectively negotiated about the loan than your finance minister does, but not to challenge the start of all that your intention. We are not such a country today. It was seen in a strange way and yesterday. That can't change the opposition. You have to change that. Your willingness to commit yourself to this business depends on the future of this country. You didn't talk about it. You have often commented on the criticisms you are exposed to, with the view that you can handle it, but that you consider such a thing incorrect. You know very well what our policy is and that none of us can really say for ourselves that God knows what satisfaction and happiness is in it. I am sorry that we have not been able to agree, not on the LDP being in the government, or that I should take some place of the ministers you are proposing today, but that we have failed as a society to agree on how we will respond together to these key problems, because so far we have not been successful. Who cares, Mr. Wolfich, what's the name of the one who was in the 1990s obliged to take care of the interests of this country, so he can ask the question of a sentence, if we don't know we're working, we know we're fighting, we're having a little morgen, we're eating roots, we're not going to bend. What does that mean more today? How pointless was my debate with your former president, and today here, the opposition head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Seselj, about the 1990s and what he was doing back then? (Vojislav Seselj: What nonsense, very meaningful. I want to ask you, if you've already kept that quiet yesterday, can you tell us today what we're going to do with that proud knot of Kosovo, which we have in our preamble, and most of the world at the Olympic Games as an independent country in Brazil? I don't know of any country that's in itself accepted such a thing and gave up the works of its territory. But I don't know of any country that has brought itself into such a situation, and I don't know in particular that anyone has a right, and we've given ourselves in the past for the right to risk the survival of the entire people because of the inability to change that society so that it can pass a reality test. We're not here as we are today by chance. Today we pay with our lives the price of the wrong and irresponsible policy. I supported you in 2013 when you signed the Brussels Agreement. I never said that I think it's bad that very often, with more or less similarity, you actually express the attitudes that we've been making for years, so it would be pointless for us to do that. We can do something else, do we do it more effectively, but we certainly can't understand the definition of keeping peace in Bosnia, to find some way of normal communication and relations with Croatia and to overcome divisions here in Serbia. That's what we need to talk about today. You brought one of the biggest investors in the world here in the country and the only one who was willing to invest money in a project called "Belgrade on Water". We had another project on the river. It was followed by Miskovic and Beko. They've invested 100 million euros. It wasn't God knows what, a great condemnation, a doubt and ultimately a disaster. How did we manage to make from something that is a great opportunity for the country a generator of internal divisions that describe us as a society that is not capable of agreeing within itself about what has to be done? How do you mean to overcome... You mentioned those three sheds this morning. Imagine what these three sheds are like when they're one of the key political issues that you answer every day, and you get 50% in the election. These are serious problems. We have to solve this. Relations with Europe and Russia. It's a very difficult question. No one's answered him in this country by now. When you talk about political role models, when you list examples that inspire you to look here for support for certain programs, you mention countries that are mostly in the West. You're talking about education in Switzerland, Austria, that now America is trying to catch it... How are we going to solve this division within ourselves? What are we going to do in such a complicated time if we continue to insist on this policy that is strategically unsustainable? What are we going to do when, say, the complicated situation in Bosnia completely loses control of it because it evolved in the meantime and exceeds our abilities? Who is it that will help us overcome this problem? I was in the Busies last week, of course. But how many “busions ” do we have in our lives? Can we tell each other that we have secured the future of this country in such a way that even if our children in it can live deprived of that experience that we and all of us had before us? You know that for years we have insisted on Serbia's NATO membership. You know that the obstacle to this is much more serious than one Declaration, which was adopted in this House, which says we will be a military neutral country. We need to open up some questions to discuss. Without that openness, she will be left without an answer, and then I don't know how many MPs and percentages in the election need to get some future government to be able to solve them. We don't have time for that anymore. You've said a lot here about the economy, about health care, about education, infrastructure, about the judiciary... It's business that requires some continuity. We're not going to change this country's constitution from government to government, education programmes. I don't know what to tell you about that clinic. I grew up in this town where 40 years of talking about a clinic that's about to end. I don't know how many tenders, how many running papers, how many failings, but obviously that's a problem that overcomes the ability of a minister or one government. Why can't I answer that when you can't tell yourself where a billion goes from the health budget? I can tell you that this whole country describes it as unfinished and society as a society that wanders too much. That's why we need a clear government, politically clear. That's what we want to talk about today. I can't argue with you when you say we're going to break the budget deficit. Well, of course it's supposed to be done. I can't accuse you. Some are accusing you of being in charge and demanding that wages and pensions be increased. I don't know who else did it in the world. We don't want to point at that. I don't know how an economy can function where the growth of a social product is, for example, at this point. Three times less than the interest on which we took the loans five years ago? I don't know if you brought back the 10% that was taken in 2011 somewhere in America? You take 10%, and at that point you have one growth social product. So how can it come back? What should we talk about the agrarian? Fifty years, the country's commission hasn't been done. We want irrigation. How is it when a tenant who rents land has a thousand acres on 30, 40 plots? Every year he comes out again looking for land to rent. How can he buy a mechanism when he's not sure he'll work again? How can he be in business with someone when there's no certainty in all this? We want dual education, but it all depends on the minister's ability to endure all that awaits the minister of enlightenment in the time ahead. Why are the ministers of education leaving us in every government? What was that? Some ministers here are no longer ministers. You had Tasovec. When he came to the government, he came as one of the most respected public figures. He came with the Widow, as I recall, in 2013. A successful director of Philharmonic, one of the most influential public figures. Unlike many, I think he did a good job. I think he did a good job and cut it where it hurts. I don't know what the new minister will be, I don't want him to talk about... There's nothing to talk about. Why have these people changed? Where did they go wrong? Did they give up? If they gave up, why? Or you were wrong when you chose them. I wouldn't be your first. You had other ministers you chose, so you didn't know what to do with them. It's your responsibility. Given what I've talked about several times over the past few years, I'm afraid you and this government can't solve these problems on your own, and you're not asking for help. You want me to tell you how this ends? I was in a government where two or three people were trying to do everything because it was forced to do so, even in a party where it was a rule. In the end, we were unsuccessful. Everything that was done was positive. There was another plan ahead of those jobs we couldn't finish on our own. How do you think you can answer these key political issues? Of course it says in the Constitution that Kosovo is part of Serbia. Of course, the Brussels Agreement states -- the right of the Serb community in Kosovo to its community, but it is not real. Neither are agreements signed with other countries: a demarcation line with Montenegro. Are we expecting stability in perspective? No, I don't. Does the world have time for us? There isn't. Then who will be your partner in all this? (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u965	Time. Mr. Seselj, you have no right. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica, mentioned me. ) The word has a mandater. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I have the right to reply according to the Rules of Procedure, because he directly mentioned me. ) Fine, but the replica is decided by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u966	Does it suit you, so there's no problem, to mention you, to get a replica again? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I want my two minutes. As soon as I'm done, you'll get it. Is that okay? So, Mr. Jovanovic, you've brought a few serious things out and I won't be able to answer them all. Not because I couldn't answer in four eyes, but there are things I can't talk about. I'll answer this last one about mistakes and setting up ministers first. You always have it as a mistake, and I don't think it was a Tasovian or a Verbic. It was another mistake, and I've always admitted it, and I never have that problem. It could have happened to me today or yesterday. I don't think it's something not human, something that's not normal. It's life. That's what always happens to you. If you don't have too many mistakes, then you've done a good job, and I think the government's choice shows that there weren't many mistakes, because I have nothing bad to say about Verbic or Tasovac. Remember that Verbic had the courage to enter among the educational workers when he was a strike and he agreed with the government's position, which I greatly appreciate, when he realized that precisely because of the deficit you were talking about we have to go to the fiscal consolidation measures and suffered, of course, the most difficult criticism and the most difficult attacks in his sector and the water bucket, I don't know what it is, and all that. In any case, it is also necessary to make a decision on how to change energy and how to enter some freshness. I don't think anyone has to be bad enough not to be a minister. It's not Minister Nikola Selakovic because he was bad, I think he was good, but there are other reasons and other reasons for both professional and personal and whatever decision you make. I think that from 2014 to 2016 the government will definitely and I talked about it with Vujovic, who is undoubtedly one of the biggest, better not to tell the biggest finance expert in our country, but one of the biggest certainly and some who made the government in the shadows is mentor to their ministers and teachers etc. The man spent 26, 27 years in the World Bank and the IMF, I think the government will go into history because of the way he solved the problems in public finances, primarily the deficits and, of course, because of the rapid recovery of the economy, the unexpected rapid recovery of the economy without the impact of spending on growth, so only with the impact of investment and exports. Now let's come to what you essentially said and ask as key questions that I won't be able to answer in general. I'll talk as much as I can. We also raised these issues in our talks, the issues of Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and our relationship with Europe and Russia. As far as the Kosovo issue is concerned, the only solution that would currently cut Gordi's knot is that we tell our people openly and our citizens it would be for the government to recognise Kosovo. The government can't do that, the government won't, and I think you're right, we have a lot of problems here and on this patriotic side where we lie to each other that it's our most valued word, and when you ask them when you were last in Glogovac, they don't even know where Glogovac is and they don't know there's not a single Serb in a long time. And before there was a conflict on KIM, only a few Serbs lived that we only set up to manage the municipality. Criminals who make us phantom firms, various criminals, are building phantom firms where they write that the company was founded in Serbs because they think it's a Serbian place, because it has basically the words of Serbs, not knowing that only there is no Serb in the Devic monastery. There weren't many before the war, just as much as in Glogovec. That is why it is true that the ignorance of the good part leads us to the extremism that we love to applaud and admire, but that does not mean that we have the right to accept that which is our territory, because you will allow that principle and in many other countries in the environment, borders would change much faster than the borders of the Republic of Serbia would change. That's why the Serbian government can't accept it, but that's why I'm aware, and that's why you know that we've been doing the hard and the worst work. Professionally, the hardest day was when I was a day after the Brussels Agreement because Dacic had an obligation in America if I'm not mistaken, I had to go to Kosovo Mitrovica and explain to all Serbs what the Brussels Agreement is. That's when I told them one sentence. All day and all night I've had insults, curses, physical attacks. It's my job as Prime Minister to suffer from my people. Then I told them one sentence – Remember, as we attacked the Dayton Agreement and today I could find where Grahovo is, where we have Drvar, where we have Petrovac, what about us Key, what about Glamoch, what about the surroundings of Sarajevo where Serbs lived from Ilidja, Vodja, Rajlovac and many other things. Today, Dayton is a sacred letter that protects the rights of Serbs, which protects Republika Srpska's right and protects the Republic of Serbia. That's when I told them - we'll refer to the Brussels Treaty, it'll be like a holy letter to us. Look today, today it is happening that the Albanian side is not fulfilling the Brussels Agreement. I can see why. I read in translation, I can't boast that I know Albanian, but I read the translated and Albanian press from Kosovo and everything else, I see what the differences are, what the tensions between them and what it looks like, but they won't have a better political situation for a long time to deliver what's agreed on in Brussels. They, of course, use every day the opportunity to attack us, and I keep quiet, because when they talk about some agreements they interpret them differently, it doesn't matter. We have to work with them and we need to talk. Whoever doesn't want to talk and who thinks they'll get rid of it, what you're talking to them. I'd get countless applauses to say now enough talk, now we're gonna cut it up and it's gone. It's such nonsense that I have no words. A large number of people live there, if you told them the next day that you wanted to have 60 Albanian MPs from Kosovo without you being MPs, all of a sudden everyone would grab their heads and say stop. We're not gonna do it exactly like that, to be completely honest, and you're right about that. That's why we need it, and that's why I think people understand it, we need a serious and responsible policy on one side of the national responsibility in terms of protection and our borders and our territory. On the other hand, the national responsible from the corner that you were talking about is going to mean no conflicts and not a view from the height that we are iberales and that they are a lower race and a lower people that when you look at research, you see that one part of our people thinks that way, above all, about Albanians. We have to fight to have more Albanians in central Serbia, to go through Belgrade, and here they leave money. When we say it that way, when they stand up to it, I'm afraid you're not thinking enough about your future. Albanians are a growing nation, currently second-largest for the Western Balkans, we are the largest people, which will not be the case in 40 years if we don't change ourselves and do something about birth and other key issues. Someone's got to take care of that. As you know, and I know that you know because I know which foreigners you can talk to, they're all making a strategy for a Serbian-Albanian relationship because they know that in the next 130-140 years, because they're looking at it, it's going to be two key peoples in the Western Balkans. We need to talk to these people. We need to find a solution in the future with these people. One who does not want to seek a solution and one who does not want to talk cannot understand well what Serbia's future is. It's not a question of what the West wants, it's a question of our relationship with the people we live with. I don't see that at this point it's possible to lead a better policy, but you're right about one thing, you need more people involved. There'll be time to talk, there'll be time to work. As far as BiH is concerned, the situation is more complicated, much more complicated and much more difficult because it includes two external factors from the region, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, as guarantors of the Dayton Peace Agreement. We don't have any guilt, I won't accept that we're the same. We have no guilt for today's relationship with the Republic of Croatia, we are nothing alike. We didn't do anything to them. There are other reasons I don't want to talk about here in front of people, there are some things that as Prime Minister and someone who's head of the service, so I know what different reasons are and it's our thing to help our people. We have managed to ensure that Republika Srpska has good relations with the Republic of Serbia, to come out of several political turbulence crises. We did it together, both of us. We have also managed to have the best relationship with representatives of Serbia in Croatia, and they are as you know everything but extremists. You see, unlike other people in the Buses who could swear something to you or get it or I don't know what to say, I'm very pleased that you were in the Busies. It's not hard for me to say it in public. I think it was a great signal and I wish more people came from different political parties in Busia and showed respect for Serbian victims and respect for those who were forced to flee from Krajina at the time. I don't have a problem with that. I don't define myself according to personalities and whether I like someone's face more or less. I define myself according to my actions, according to one who does something or does not do something for Serbia. This Gordy knot is impossible to cut. This fight, this battle will last, but it is important that we know what is real and that, in accordance with reality, we are pulling our political moves. I think that's how we made the political moves, so we're going to do both in the future and in line with what I was saying yesterday. You said something important too, and think about it, Mr. Jovanovic, and I won't answer you till the end. How long would it take us to lead a different policy, and you know exactly what our people's relationship is when you talk about different world powers. This is the only way to make a policy so we don't lose everyone else and not just be with one. The only possible way to conduct politics is for Serbia to maintain good relations with everyone, to have its strategic goal - the EU, but to keep the best relations with the Russian Federation, to ask the people... (Natasa Jovanovic throws.) [[Applause]] )......................................................................................................... If we asked, Chedomir, the people of the referendum, I would lose safely. What is it that bothers you so much that people applaud, decent people, normal? Don't be like a god, please applaud them when they say they get a little more strength to think they're stronger. Don't worry. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u967	No, but the SNS parliamentary group has a lot of MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u968	Is it because of the replica? He wants the Chaddy replica, not me. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I want the replica of Cedomir Jovanovic, not you.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u969	Yeah, let's just finish the term of office. Have you completed your address?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u970	Not yet. So, I'm not sure that the policy I presented yesterday, if we were naked enough to get majority support without getting majority support, I'm afraid it would be presented in a different or more naked way, I'm afraid of losing Serbia. On the other hand, you were talking about division in society. I don't see the division in society, I see the scarcity in society. I see first, we don't have two parts, we have different sexes, we have the central part, but I see the scarcity, and when you say you're absolutely right about Luke Belgrade, no matter what I think about these people, you're absolutely right about "Belgrade on Water" everything is true. I have nothing to add. Whatever I add, I'd be wrong. About three sheds, not a problem in three sheds, you're right. Never have sheds been a problem. It was never the ones who brought buses against the law to park, charge them for parking, and they had no right to do so. No crime problem, nothing. The problem is in three sheds not because of that. The problem is that Alexander Vukitch is the problem, I'll tell you. It's not Sinisha Mali's problem, it's not that and that. Someone to invest three million dollars in a three-hole campaign, invested three million dollars because they wanted someone else's head. That's the point. And it doesn't matter those three sheds, they'll find the new three sheds, they'll find two sheds, they'll find whatever they want to call and find something for a reason. There's enough reason for all you want. Like I never understood everything that was said about the helicopter. I never understood. I put myself in the shoes of those who did it and I said: I would never do this. I don't understand what this is about. Then I saw how the aided helicopter campaign was also on the side, and then I realized that someone felt it as a political project as they did in Romania, just as they did in Albania, as they did in Slovakia. You won't believe it, same way the same story about a helicopter happens to be a helicopter. It's all the same way. Why is that necessary? Well, that's what it takes when you can't find a serious argument, then someone has to use the false, someone has to, and I'm not talking about you at all, of course, to use lies and to use it for their dirtyest campaign, to use passion and emotions, because they have nothing else. And we've come this far to bother people -- which I don't care if we don't have a deficit, great, best to have destroyed public finances. People who are the most diligent, who are the most valuable, are the most disturbed. That's where we came to Serbia. Now, that's the problem of acuity because some can't work, they're fighting for their lost positions. I read the data yesterday. Whatever murder happens, there's no land, there's no city where it doesn't happen. In Baltimore in one month you had 83 killed, in Chicago 65. I think it was last month. Listen, people, in Serbia, you don't have it for four months, five months, in all of Serbia. Baltimore is much smaller than Serbia, so you had it on a monthly level. The first explanation is everywhere. They're back in the '90s. What happened back in the '90s? Because we don't know what else to say. Because we'd like to see ours in power, we have to help them, so we'll live a better life, and don't let you, who we've hated for 15, 20 years, spend something in action. That has nothing to do with a serious argument. I tried to hear serious remarks, that there were serious objections. For me, life is my policy. I was dealing with life yesterday, but you're right about the issue from the narrow domain of politics. Let me do it on purpose. That wasn't Kim. I run as far as I can as Prime Minister. I know what our obligations are about Republika Srpska, and I run as far away as I can from the issues of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm running and I'm going to answer. I'm running away to say anything. Do you want me to ask someone every day, and where are those who wanted to lynch me in Srebrenica? You want me to tell you what it is that we know all about this attack and what was the ultimate goal and what was the intention and I am silent and no man is responsible. No man is the answer. No one's saying anything. And we keep our mouths shut. We're going to Mostar. I'm meeting Bakir. I lay my hand out and talk about everything like nothing happened. Imagine if it had happened to another statesman somewhere in the world, so we couldn't move forward, we wouldn't have told us – good day in the next 15 years. And I say, no problem. I forgot everything, let me go, there's no problem. The next one comes – now we forbid you since you stole our show from last year. It was a show like I organized it. I wanted to organize my own murder and keep your mouth shut again. That's why I kept quiet yesterday, I said it in three sentences, and that's why I talked about the economy for four hours, because I'm silent, because I want to preserve peace and stability, because I want to defend it. Thank you for your remarks. They were very serious and too much. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Can I now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u971	Thank you. Just a minute. A little patience for me to say it. I know you'd like to lead the parliament, but you can't. I studied Article 104 closely. The only thing I can give you is a replica because I was distracted that MP Jovanovic said he was having a pointless debate or debate with you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There is no greater insult than that. ) Although this debate was 20 years ago, it seems that pain is an immeasurable situation if you remember it for 20 years. Two minutes and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u972	That's what I'm telling you honestly, I had no idea that Cedomir Jovanovic wanted to be a minister this much and enter this government. I really didn't know. I wasn't at this big, communicative meeting in the Busies because nobody invited me, and I'd really like to leave. Busier, I formed my own time as a settlement, so to speak. And there was an opportunity to meet Chad Jovanovic and he asked me to urinate with my former political associate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u973	Ambassador, you have received a replica to explain why you are in pain of a pointless debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u974	That hurts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u975	Is that what hurts you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u976	To urinate at Alexander Vukic's, as he said, whose party boss I was. Although we in the party are not familiar with these categories of bosses, we are not like Democrats. Had Cedomir Jovanovic told me, I would have really sought Alexander Vukic, in what way, I would have found him somehow and asked him to take Cedo Jovanovic to the government, and to bring Ceda back Cumet and to pave Serbia as a whole. When Chume did those jobs, it worked best. I would suggest instead of Zorana Mihajlovic, who did not want to stay in this government anyway, to be Ceda Jovanovic, and to be the assistant minister of the Chuma, and to see how it is done. Then they wouldn't complain that these paths are slowly paved. It all went smooth. Now it's easier for my soul, and I haven't taken full two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u977	Thank you, if there's anything I can do for you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u978	Mr. Wolfie, you still can't keep your mouth shut as many serious questions as the ones we talked about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u979	Wait, Ambassador Jovanovic, you answer to Seselj or... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u980	No, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u981	You're looking for the first one. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u982	Of course I can't keep quiet about them, not because it's my whim, but I just think it's my duty. You're right when you describe our society's reactions, but I'm sure no one in Serbia would refuse a proposal rejected by the Swiss when the government offered a referendum of 2,500 euros per capita to raise spending. I told our society not to pass the reality test, and that's not an accident. It's the result of the policy that's been going on here, not for the past four years, that's been going on since we've been in politics. That's why we're a very smart people later. We now understand the importance of offers from the 1990s, the European Community for a peaceful solution to the Yugoslav crisis. Now we understand the significance of Dayton. What would they give for Rambui now? What would they give for Ahtisaari's plan when we compare it to the Brussels Agreement? This is all due to the fact that politics in Serbia never had the strength to be concrete to the extent that it is sought by the circumstances in which the country is located. That's why I said this debate was very strange. Looks like such power, full of fat, strong applause, and on the other hand, you have to bypass these questions. Are we going to be stronger tomorrow? If we are, go ahead and say it. We will be stronger for that and for that, and I will agree with you. I know it's hard to talk about. It affects Serbia crucially.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u983	Time. Thank you, MP. Would you care for a minute? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u984	Just a few sentences. Yes, I think Serbia will be stronger as economically strong as possible. I think we're on our way as far as that goes. You know, when you take a boat or a boat, and on one shore you have a "Prag" that shoots at you, and on the other bank a three-way waiting, and you need to drag the boat through, you don't have to talk and report to each other that you're just passing by, but you're looking to avoid it, to drag the boat to a safe port. That's what I think is not only the best, but the only policy possible. Unfortunately, against hypocrisy, and that's why it's not hard for me to say sometimes that you're right, as I don't find it hard to say that sometimes you're wrong, but hypocrisy is in our society all you want. The same statements are being accused of spreading nationalism, and here I hear that the former president has accused me of saying that there will be no more "Storms" spreading nationalism in the region. Imagine, I guess I should have said - we need another "Storm", or - we need another loss of our people, to be satisfied and to be a great peacemaker. I know why he said it, he's courting others, so someone might think that Vukica should be replaced because it threatens stability in the region, and he will return it and Serbia will again be a obedient country that will fulfil all the tasks. (National Ambassador Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. ) He just said that ten minutes ago, which is exactly what he literally said, so I did not paraphrasise him, saying there will be no "Storm" against the Serbian people anymore, and I am spreading nationalism in the region. Here, I repeat it once again – Serbia will never allow anyone to happen again "Storm" and banish some 250,000 people. I think it's a policy of peace, not a policy of conflict, because "Storm" was a policy of conflict, a policy of attack, a policy of killing and banishment. One of your questions is floating in the air from your first exposure, and that's -- did we secure the future of the country? We're not, like when we graduate from college, we're not done studying, and we don't have enough knowledge, but we have to study every day. We have never secured our future, especially in the conditions and political framework in which Serbia is moving, in which Serbia lives. We have countless problems wherever you turn. Public finance management, a slightly more favourable economic environment today than it was two, three, four years ago, or six-seven. So it's not enough. For a moment, any political instability destroys everything and destroys it for the next ten years. That's why you're right. We have to watch carefully and take care of what we do in the future. But, about this inside Serbia, just think about what a knife question would lead to in our country, what conclusions would we be, and where would we end up? We wouldn't be talking about the deficit here anymore, we'd be talking about our internal wars and conflicts here. The question is whether or not we'd avoid weapons and about the external factor and regional stability anymore and not to talk. That's why I think this was the wisest policy, the best policy, not because I'm very smart or any of us is very smart, but because this has been imposed as the only possible, realistic, rational, serious and national responsible solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u985	Thank you. I suggest we move on. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u986	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers' candidates, honourable MPs, the United Serbia will support the government, as has been supported by the previous two governments. At the time, we did not have ministers, directors of public enterprises, and we will not have in this next four-year term, if the government lasts four years. But I will not speak as I have prepared myself, but I will speak as the Prime Minister has spoken and answered certain questions in the last 15-20 minutes. What's most important for a country's progress? Political stability. When there is political stability, there is economic stability. You did not boast, Prime Minister, that the stability of the dinar is most important for the development of a country. And it is you, or we cut salaries and pensions, but the credit rates have not increased for citizens who have been taking credit in the last two years. Your credit rating was up to 30% of your salary is going to war. These credit users who took the loans seven or eight years ago came into a situation where their loan wars and 70% of their salary, and those who took the loans two years ago remained the same war. But most importantly for business entities and large, medium and small enterprises that once took credit, the rate difference ate and earned them, and therefore such enterprises went bankrupt and later into liquidation. The economic stability and stability of dinars attracted foreign investors and without foreign investors today, the government of the Republic of Serbia would not have a surplus in the budget, we wanted to admit it or not. It's a good thing you said in your exposé that the same rights domestic investors, if they want to have a secure programme, that they're going to hire workers, have the same rights as foreign investors. You mentioned Croatia. Croatia is a major obstacle to Serbia on the European path, but Serbia is an EU member and I have repeatedly said that Croatia does not work alone, because the Serbian people also remember Ante Starcevic, namely Ante Pavelic and Ante Gotovina, who committed the greatest genocide on the Serbian people after World War II, who was first convicted in The Hague tribunal, and then the big world lobby and those who pressed the button to bomb Serbia, released him. A unique Serbia has its view on the UN tribunal as well, that The Hague tribunal was built as a court for Serbs. What I particularly want to point out is that there have been several higher forces that have indirectly affected Serbia's economic development and stability, Bregzit. As far as the UK is concerned, we know very well that the UK is fond of Serbia, Turkey and asylum seekers. Serbia was one of the most common countries where asylum seekers passed in transit. When I'm at the asylum, I want to commend our police and army, who didn't behave like police and the Croatian and Hungarian armies, and beat up asylum seekers. I'm so glad you said in your exposé that there would be an increase in salary and military and police. I'm also glad you said pensions would increase in the exposé. You have great responsibility, but this for your party, of course, not for my coalition. Maybe we're a little damaged here, too, because we didn't say in the election campaign that after the election, within six to eight months, pensions and salaries would be increased. So I don't believe any of the political parties in the world, the leaders, would keep that quiet. Both you and I as your ex-partners and future political partners have said it's hard, it's gonna get better. But if we had said that then, Prime Minister, a number of parties would not be in parliament today. What is more important for Unique Serbia and what we will support and support? Dual education. I could see in the field that we had come into a situation where we had no more craftsmen, that we couldn't hire those high school kids' factories, they were all with colleges. Who doesn't graduate from college, and works in public enterprises, he graduates, graduates from college, and we don't have high school boys, masters, who we're going to hire in factories. I also suggest that those who graduate from high school and college, if they were given a test, and that in the test there were professional questions from the profession they had completed, these young people were not professional because they had no practice, they were not to blame. I suggest that all those who graduate from high school have either professional practice or what we're going to call it, until the way education is changed, that half of them are financed by local self-government for three months, and three months by the state, that six months that practice empowers that young man to be received by one of the privates. There is no urgency in private companies and that now you can call both you or me or any of the ministers and say – hire me this guy or this girl. When he goes to talk, if he has no idea about the job, that employer won't hire such young people. That's our biggest problem right now. When it comes to agriculture, it is urgent to introduce some control for buyers because the buyers, not the state, are the biggest culprits that the price of grain was at the harvest of 17 dinars, and 15 days after 14 dinars. Both citizens and farmers think it's the government's fault. Also, dairy producers because of buyers, if someone had ten years ago 20 cows, each year loses three cows through price differences. It is a huge problem, and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute minister, former and future, cannot solve it alone. What else is important, what you didn't say, and that's a huge result of the previous government? You sold a factory called the factory, which is the wreck “Sartid” in Smederevo, like a boat or boat standing on the coast of the sea or some river for 20 years. It is a huge success, given that the products produced by Sartid cannot be placed in Serbia and Europe alone, and that you have brought the owner of that factory that has buyers and markets around the world. What is most important today for the stability of one factory and one company? The market. The market doesn't get marketing in six months and you win big markets. Also, co-operation with China and with the president of China is an extremely big deal for the Republic of Serbia. So, the farmers found themselves in big trouble, but not by the government's fault. What's important to agricultural producers? That in the future, and this has never been done before and it is not difficult, since statistics exist, which are products that are deficit and agricultural which are imported and only in time now in this month in September tell farmers – next year you can sow grain, corn or store calves, lambs or pigs. It's not hard for the government. So the same buyers, Prime Minister, seemed to have increased the price of pigs, and it took a while for those pigs, a few of them, just because they weren't in the big crowd, to buy out and now we don't have enough pig meat and we have to import. That is also not the fault of the government and the resolute minister. When I say Minister of Resorship, I mean Rasim Ljajic, a gentleman who may have some responsibility when the markets are being made, and then in those markets, we have goods in shelves from around the world, at least from Serbia, but we also have Cefta, we also have an Association and Stabilisation Agreement. It's not a criticism, Mr. Ljajic, don't think it's a criticism, this is my finding. I'm sure that's why you're so in power that you're professional and capable. If you weren't capable, you wouldn't be in power for so many years, so it's not a criticism. Agricultural producers need a loan, but a loan that is not expensive, a non-interest loan or someone to service interest. The banks also destroyed farmers, foreign banks. These banks that earn money do not make factories out of the money earned in Serbia, but bring money to countries where they come from. I don't know what this gentleman will be the next minister for, but don't advocate the prime minister, agriculture, these are all the resources that matter to you. Don't just like Mr. Vesenov, and I hope you're not like that, he was so familiar with agriculture that he only entered the field when he was on the highway and went to the bathroom, and it wasn't near any hotel, and at night when he went hunting, I hope you're a little more professional. He didn't know he could tell a cow from a bull. But that's true. Tourism, "Belgrade on Water", I saw the project "Belgrade on Water", and I looked forward to it because it is something new, something new that is nowhere in Europe. Something new to hire a large number of workers and something new to help other tourist cities and municipalities in Serbia. Because what to show the Prime Minister or the Resort Minister if someone comes to him, something that's new, something that's nice, and so those who come to invest in our country have a certain trust. We had two years ago, Prime Minister, floods that destroyed many cities in Serbia, and it is not true that Europe helped us and compensated us for the total damage, so they criticised that I did not know how many people drowned, etc. And it rained for 20 days. Just one night in Macedonia, 25 people died, died in a flood, and I don't know how many people are missing. And you can't bear that kind of responsibility and guilt, and it's done a lot on the coastal recovery by the rivers that flooded certain municipalities and cities. International policy, you and Ivica Dacic, have been the best representatives of the Serbian people of all time, since Serbia led international politics. Let me just tell you, 56 countries came to Serbia last year, their representatives, at the summit or we don't know what we're going to call this meeting, the Council of Ministers, when Serbia chaired the OSCE. We made the best impression as an organizer of all the presidency countries, the last 30 years which played a role as Serbia. All that, most of all thanks to you, but also to your first vice president, Ivica Dacic. I can congratulate you on your wisdom, because I know your mentality, what you were before, and that you are not representing interest and ideology lately, but the interest of the citizens of Serbia. What happened to you in Srebrenica would not have been so silent that you later brought that son of Ali and led him through Prince Michael, to see a peaceful and honest people, and to see how many Serbian citizens, or Serbs, were expelled from the space where he is now the chief of the capital, and sometimes his dad. So I congratulate you on that and that is something that leads to a single Serbia to vote in favour of the government and ministers, because I really can't blame you for anything. Now, let me say this. The press is calling me, but I'm not going to go there, they're texting me, and now I'm going to vote for the lady who's a representative of the LGBT population. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: E, we are interested. I'll tell you now. Unique Serbia personally, we have nothing against these people, if they are professionally run by certain resistors, but we will never accept and support a gay parade and we will never accept and support the legalisation of homosexual marriages. And that's what you're supposed to applaud right now, so let's give it up, 'cause you think you're quiet, but it doesn't matter. I expect and invite the lady to visit Jagodina, we don't want to talk about... . (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: About sex. )......................................................................................................... We're going to talk about the development of local self-government, so simply, Mr. Wolf, I'm talking to you and you're talking about a lot of things you-you didn't like in life but you accepted. Is that right? In the interest of Serbian citizens? I advocate that men and women enter marriage, that children are born and that we fight white plague, because you said that every year in Serbia a city the size of Zrenjanin disappears, which is a huge problem, that Serbs will be a national minority over 50 years in Serbia. So I don't mind members of the LGBT population or I don't know what they're called anymore, even though I've been sued and paid my fine, I'll pay for it, but my attitude hasn't changed. Mr. Vukic, the most trouble I had with your MPs was their question every ten minutes, and how are you going to vote now, and what are you going to do, just the ones sitting on my left? Here, now you've heard how I'm going to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u987	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u988	It's not over. All right, in the end, once again, the JS will support the government of the Republic of Serbia and help maximumly what we know, and there's a lot we can do to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u989	Thank you. Since the screens don't show time, it's only my watch. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u990	I'm going to lose a little bit less than you mentioned, a town the size of Negotina or Prepolje, but still a huge loss, and I'm afraid we're all saying that as statistics, and we're going to try to do something for the first time. Macedonia has succeeded, not enough, part of their experiences we will use perhaps this professional man I met, who worked for the Macedonian government to hire him, to see what it is, because it doesn't matter, because people usually say it's with rights, child benefits, maternity rights. They're bigger, more pronounced and better than in Germany. There after three months or six months you have to go to work, here you can stay out of work for two years. It's not about that, it's about consciousness first of all, that we've become more selfish and a lot of things that we have to change about ourselves to make a better result. As far as Anna Brnabic is concerned, I have answered all the questions I have, and then I will say something about this Mr. Nedimovic. So, Anna we chose, that's my suggestion, so no one came to me to tell me, that's my idea, and I asked the others to accept that idea because I know Anna as a very professional, very lazy person and a woman who wasn't afraid of challenges. Never with her, and we've seen it seem to me, it's too much to say a hundred times, but dozens of times we've seen each other at different and conferences, we've had conversations at meetings and so on, we've never talked about that subject. We talked for the last time, for the first and last time, and as far as I'm concerned, we ended up talking about it because she was very kind and polite and polite, and we talked about what might be the objections, so we knew that one of the remarks might be and that, more to me, I guess, than she did, how did you do it. She was so fair and so kind that she said – well, who's the problem, they'll probably start it. I said it's no problem for me, it's her business, it's a free country. But that doesn't mean that I tell people that we've already legalized homosexual marriages, so I guess that's what scares the people, and that's how they get a piece of the vote. We didn't do it, there's no plan, there's no idea. This has nothing to do with the rights of the people that we will guarantee and for which we will fight and protect, and Anna is not, as some media have transferred by the LGBT Minister, she is the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and she is there in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when she is elected, she is here because she is worthy, because she is industrious, because she has knowledge, education, that is why she is there, not because she is a man or a woman, or because she is such or such sexual orientation. So it has to do with, uh, the fact that I'm hearing you, like I used to at the time of the confederals, and the key to the variant. There's got to be so many women, there's got to be so many. There'll be sometimes more women, sometimes less, sometimes there'll be more of them, sometimes more of them depending on who deserves it, and we'll lead that policy. You're right, Mr. Markovic, about agriculture. About the price of grain, it has nothing to do with the Serbian government. There's a stock market, there's a market. If there were any buyers doing anything, if you can help us, the authorities would be happy to examine it. On the other hand, as far as milk is concerned, we have helped the dairy industry so much, and Minister Bogosavljevic has worked hard to do so. We introduced, I told you already, certain mechanisms and levies for which we received by ear from the EU five times, and serious objections and serious protests and everything else. We endured it because it was the only way to protect our dairy industry. I'm not saying that the conditions are ideal, we're not even French that we can offer subsidies, but they're not even costs like in France. They usually tell you -- farmers, you know, they get so much and so many euro cents, so many euros per throat, per liter, I don't know what it's all about. Well, it is, but all you need for food is incomparably cheaper here than there. It's just that we always skip it. Of course the conditions aren't great, we'll see that we improve them and that people can live easier, but they have to look into the future and change themselves, as you do, as I do, as every one of us does. As for Nedimovic and what he was talking about, we were talking about pig meat. That's what I've been having this conversation with Rasim Ljajic. We could have intervened from stock reserves in the second, we don't have a problem here, but you're not going to have any market disturbances, in this case it's a European market disturbance, so everyone knows what it's all about. The Chinese came and bought, three months ago, 20 million pigs in Germany. When you buy 20 million pigs in Germany, there's market disturbances, especially in a country that doesn't have pig meat enough for its own purposes, except nobody's going to say it. And of course there's a minor disturbance. There won't be a problem in 10 days. It is understood that we have again attended the pathological hypocrisy in which, and when the price is increased, manufacturers are not enough and not good enough, but they are made not to do it again to producers. I don't know how it's wrong and such an increased price. Of course, it's not good for consumers either. Here, the price will come back now and you'll see again that we'll be faced with criticism because it's not right for manufacturers. And that's always the way it is. Of course, our production is a very shallow pig, so we insisted. I told you about swine fever, and whatever I say here, they'll tell me -- well, but I should. And you know why I should? Well, because we haven't made the conditions for pigs they have in all other European countries, and there's no fear of swine fever, and that's why we have to vaccinate. And that's why we can't take out any pigs. That's why we can't deal with the Chinese who are our extraordinary friends, who we can agree on both lamb and veal, we can't agree on pig meat, precisely because of this, because we don't meet the conditions that any other country prescribes. Except we're not gonna say that. Because we'll never get away with it. Tell me, Dragan, when, you and anyone else, when it happened in Serbia that one of the politicians who wasn't in the government at that time, one of the media, any of the government media, is gone, there's a public service, who said something against someone who's strikein'? Every time he comes to strike, even if he comes with the most idiotic reason in the world, he's always right. Right? Well, it is. Because in Serbia, the easiest thing to do is to be against and to say – I am at risk. And no one asks him. Wait, wait, let's see. Then you say, "Why do they not give him money?" And tomorrow you ask me where my salaries and pensions are. Well, because from the same thing we pay off, we have one jar of you know, from that one jar we have to pay off and there's no less money in that jar, so we don't fail, that we don't transfer from someone else so we have to pay back more. And we haven't returned that 7.50 and 7.65% interest yet. We haven't been able to roll 'em yet. We still couldn't do it because they're not simple rules. And they criticized us, and here in parliament, remember, they criticized us when we took long-term loans, not three-year-olds, five-year-olds, but ten-year-olds at 2% interest. You know what we'd give? We'd save it if we could do it right now, about 800, 900 million, that's all we can replace, and we can't. It's just that people who don't know, they don't know shit about the state. That's how they liked it. They're sitting in front of the TV -- oh, so I can answer this, and what would I do if I met him on the street? And they don't have a thing, they don't know anything about it, and that's how it happens. That's the problem. These are problems we can't solve easily. You're right. This for Sartid, God looked at us. We worked hard. I always say, not God himself, you have to help him, you have to work hard, but yes, it's true that the Chinese, our friends, wanted to get into it. No one else would. See the loss of “Dad” in Britain. See how much "Mithal" losses are all over the world, the biggest in the world. The Chinese also come here under such conditions despite EU anti-dumping measures. And now the Chinese have also imposed anti-dumping measures on them, killing them, as far as steel exports to China are concerned, killing them. And we open the door, both here and there. We are worthy, we have worked, we have fought, but God has looked at us, and if so, in those words I can call. And I'm not running away from it at all. As we also worked hard somewhere on the edge, such as "Fap" Pribojski, failed. We fought and we fight. And we'll keep working. As far as professional practice is concerned, we have a problem, Dragan. Not our company, we'd have to organize it with utility companies on a local level. That's what these foreign companies want. That's why they're interested in dual education. To me, Simon Perez, when I met him, a living legend, so, you're trying in world politics, he told me, in a year and whoever does it first, will be in front of the others. The workers will have to work six hours a day and two hours a day to learn, and the students will have to study for five hours and three hours to work. And whoever accepts it will be successful, whoever's last in it, he's gone, and he's gone. As you can see, he was absolutely right. See the indicators of Denmark, Switzerland, Germany and Austria, you will see that they have run over both for stability and for employment and for the rest of Europe. And the great powers of some cannot be measured by them. I want to thank you for your support. We are always ready to hear, listen to your remarks, to answer them, to help if sometimes we can, and we expect your support and help and in the ideas, knowledge and energy you have. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u991	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u992	Is Milorad Mijatovic in the O.R.? Should I switch to the list if none of the authorities answer? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go, Mr. Lapchev. The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u993	If you can give me my time, if you don't mind. Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, candidates for future ministers in the government, Mr. Prime Minister, at the beginning I will say that we were embarrassed yesterday because of the way this session was called. In fact, we waited three months for that call to come for a meeting, and then a 24-hour shortcut without proper preparation began the session. We felt it was appropriate to get both the government's composition and your exposé a few days earlier, to have proper preparations and to be prepared to answer all those questions and concerns that we can see in your Expose and make some constructive proposals. We don't understand why this session was called on a shortcut, and we also don't have answers to questions why it's waiting this long for the government to form, since we've always listened to the reasons for the need to speed up the reforms, that it is necessary to reassemble the government, and your promises that in May you have the government's composition and that you still have two, three ministers missing by the end of May, and then by the end of June, until the end of June, until the Paris conference, before the British government, so here on August 10, we've come up with a whole three months of thinking about what kind the government will be. What are the real reasons for that? Have you doubted what your new fresh blood will be in the government or are there other reasons, perhaps other pressures on the side, how the media write, and what pressures, who pressures you? Why did you have trouble putting the government together when you have an absolute majority? Also, we've heard more than once from you that you don't allow anyone to put pressure on you, so it's simply incompatible that there are pressures when you're a man no one can put pressure on. These are important issues that could be enlightened in public. We also did not like your relationship with the National Assembly and with the MPs. In fact, we appreciate your efforts and your systematicity to put together a government program for three months, that this program is more than 350 pages away. We also appreciate the fact that you lied here for six hours yesterday. Despite the many disagreements and the content and the way we sat here and patiently listened to what you had to tell us. But it is totally unacceptable and incomprehensible to us that when after so much preparation of a comprehensive programme, when after six presentations of yours, your MP majority on my request to get twice the time to debate so that we can analyze quality what you wrote... Please, if you could apply Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u994	Article 104 is a replica, so I don't want to give it to them now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u995	All right, but follow the Rules of Procedure, please, let's make it order in the O.R., if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u996	There was a show called "Do By Order" when we were young. I can't handle the Rules of Procedure, but I'm sure I'll ask them to take it a little more quietly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u997	So it is really offensive that after so much comprehensive exposure to your parliamentary majority votes against getting double time and that we can discuss in a valid way everything that you have predicted in your government programme. It just shows that you want to be completely dominant and that you have more time and that your exposure takes more time than the entire debate of all parliamentary groups and all MPs in the Assembly. So, five hours is scheduled for all parliamentary groups to consider your exposés, and only your exposure took six hours. I don't think that's appropriate and it's not right. I think it'll go down in history as something that's negative. Your Expose yesterday was a mixture of demagogue phrases, a parallel of general descriptive places, to unnecessary, burdensome details of what the government was doing. We appreciate what the government's been doing, but we really don't see the reason why it would bring up the fact that the door has changed, how many windows have changed, how much it's turned. I guess that's what ministers should do, and the prime minister should give us the strategic directions in which his government will work in the coming period. You announced the launch of a policy system change issue. We agree that our political system is not the most ideal and that it should be discussed, but you have kept silent in your exposé to talk about whether there will be a change in the Constitution, and you and most of you have announced it. Is it because it's a tricky question and you intend to throw Kosovo and Metohija out of the preamble or something else? That's also an important question. You spoke of your strategic definition, namely your strategic definition that Serbia should go towards further European integration, open new chapters and end negotiations by 2020, although the previous promise was to be by 2018 and that Serbia would nevertheless develop a comprehensive co-operation with Russia both economically and politically and each other. I'm asking you how do you do it? How is that possible? How do you think you are developing, going further into European integration, if Chapter 31, which speaks of a common foreign security policy, provides that Serbia must bring its foreign policy into line and that, of course, there has been a requirement so far to impose sanctions on Russia. How will we develop these good relations if we move on to European integration? Also, you were saying that despite our strategic definition that we are going towards the EU to preserve the integrity of the state and preserve Kosovo and Metohija and work for our people. We're not squirrels here. Every day for some EU official and publicly speaking about Serbia cannot join the EU until it recognises Kosovo and Metohija. So these are the things you put out here in the exposé, which, of course, obviously aren't true and can't be implemented. The Democratic Party of Serbia is absolutely opposed to the country's further European integration because they are harmful to us. They are not only harmful to our sovereignty and that the EU wants to take that part of our territory, they are also harmful to our economic interests. I don't need to mention how much we lost in customs, VAT over these years, and after signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and I don't need to talk about how indirectly we lost by opening the market and without customs we import and agricultural products, so today the situation in agriculture is far worse for our farmers than it was in previous years. As for the economy you paid the most attention to, we can say that the promise you made in 2014 is that you will stabilise public finances and that you will reduce the deficit to the greatest extent possible and that we support you there. So Serbia can't be headlessly in debt and constantly go into the budget deficit, but there are dozens of other things you've also promised, which you haven't fulfilled. I'll just mention some. In 2012, you said in an election campaign that you would bring 100 billion euros of investment to Serbia. Of course, that 100 billion-euro investment, yes, your former President Tomislav Nikolic and your party promised it in the 2012 elections, as promised by the Danube-Morava-Vardar-Egeysko Sea channel. We know that these are just colorful lies, that they were the way that citizens are going to cheat to vote for you. Also, you promised to cut the electricity price by 20%, your minister sitting on your right, and to introduce a cheaper tariff. Instead, we got an increase in electricity by more than 30% on two occasions and the introduction of electricity excises. It's like electricity is a luxury, like it's the 21st century luxury of having electricity, so you have to pay taxes on luxury, or excise. We'll cancel the TV subscription, because it's our responsibility. That's what you once said. The television subscription was cancelled in 2014 and a TV tax was introduced in 2015. So, another false promise and fraud. We saved the FAP. Mercedes is coming to Pryboy, we're gonna make the most modern trucks, they're gonna be employees, we solved the problem, the Finns are coming in. Unfortunately, it was nothing. We will produce the most modern buses, Mercedes in Icarbus, of course only in the election campaign. There's no such thing today. I can't promise we'll raise our pensions, but I guarantee you that pensions won't be cut. That's what you said in 2014. Two months after that promise, pensions were reduced from 10% to 20% depending on the category. We will build cheaper apartments, their price will be 380 euros by the end of 2015. It was also your promise. Of course, there's nothing out of those apartments. We will solve the management problem in public enterprises, i.e. we will professionalise management in public enterprises. Mr. Bajatovic, who is part of your ruling majority, is the best example of how you did it and how you stabilised this public enterprise and its debts and how you professionalized management in public enterprises and eliminated the party influence in them. It's going to be a bigger separation for science. That's what it said in your 2014 exposé. Not that there weren't any major separations for science. On the contrary, the separations for science have been reduced and this has been a message to young researchers, scientists and educated people that they have nothing to look for in this country, but that they are about to travel somewhere where they will be valued, so there are tens of thousands of people in recent years, which has been going on since the 1990s, but it seems to me that the last years has been accelerated, that the smartest young people are leaving the country. You didn't call the competition, or your Ministry of Education for research projects for two years, and then when you called it, you called it so that the contest had to fall. The relevant competitions for scientific and research work are those from 2014 which extend each year, of course, beyond the law. Many more of your pre-election promises that are not fulfilled can be listed, but I don't have enough time for that. So when we define ourselves whether we're going to give you support for your program or not, we define ourselves based on what your program is written in the exposé and on who this program is and what our experiences are with it. It is obvious that experience is such that we cannot boast that what you promised you had fulfilled. On the contrary, there is much more to what you have not fulfilled than it is. Also, we can't support either your exposés, nor support your proposal for the composition of the new government because you announced that you would solve the problem of selling the country to foreigners, and we think it's a disaster for the country of Serbia to sell the country to foreigners. Therefore, no foreign sales are taken into account, as no genetically modified food production in Serbia comes into account. It bothers us that you understand everything, even in genetically modified products. Let's let the experts talk about it, and don't make laps while you talk about how it's grown and how it's got a cherry tomato, when it's not true. So, for all of these reasons, and most of all because we disagree with the strategic definition that you have presented here, we will not support your proposal to elect a new government, because it is the same old government that has been since 2014 until today, are the same coalition partners that you have been talking about being bothered by and being the worst in the world, and it is another pre-election deception of Serbian citizens and because you have centralized and composed mostly of ministers from Belgrade and Vojvodina. You only have two ministers under Sava and Danube and none from southern Serbia. None. As if that part of Serbia does not exist and that part of Serbia, which is the poorest and most vulnerable, should not have its own representative and should not be reduced by regional differences compared to other parts of the country. I'll leave those three more minutes in the next presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u998	Thank you. Now the word is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u999	I thank the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1000	Excuse me, Ambassador Mijatovic. I didn't see the Prime Minister want to answer. I'm sorry, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1001	With pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1002	So I'm going to try to answer, and if maybe "what to say" comment would be the most meaningful thing right now. Six minutes you were talking about how you waited three months. Well, I've waited for all your government until the last midnight. You never came three days earlier, let alone a month earlier. We came a month early. I waited until midnight for your government. And they begged me from your party to stop talking so it wouldn't go to temporary funding. Come on, do something for Serbia, please. Don't tell us today to declare government before midnight. Since you're not ashamed to tell us here that it's a month early, and that at midnight, it's okay before, or that you forgot what you did and how you did. Or, I guess you all think we should all be afraid of you because you're against it and because it's popular or nice to say it. It's reasonable that he's been exposed earlier, you say. And when did you give it to us? When? Do you remember these others of yours, those of your third? All the derivatives, all the other ones. When did you give it to us earlier? You never gave it to us once. Yesterday I spoke for six hours, you didn't have an argument after that, you had a whole day's break until today. And whatever happened, you'd say it wasn't right. If I'd said 20 minutes, like some, their entire program stopped in 20 minutes they didn't know what to say, you'd say I didn't have anything to say. Whatever I did, you'd always say the same thing. Because you're here to be against, even if you make up your arguments, at least you don't have any arguments. And, so we've established -- you've never given the exposés, you've never formed a government in time. You've never formed a government a month before. Where do you get the right, where do you get the face to ask us what we're doing and how do we do it? You're still giving us sermons, like we're giving a high-level lecture, like, now we're going to explain it to you. And being patient and patient and making every remark is my duty to listen and to answer, unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure today, or the proposed members of the government have no right to respond, only I have the right to answer, so I have to answer everything. You say demagogue floscule. Well, all you said was the worst demagogue floscule. First, I didn't make any lapus. I know exactly what I said about four tomatoes and I don't know what else. Except you don't know anything about it, and neither do those who pretend to know. You don't know anything about that. I said everything exactly yesterday, I didn't do any lapus. Seeing as how it caused laughter and ridicule in the ignorant. I broke my tongue twice, so I got something wrong, but this wasn't even a lapus lingu. You know, you didn't mention a change in the Constitution, so I'm not because I've said countless times that the change in the Constitution is the attitude of the agreement of political entities. The Constitution cannot be changed unless we agree with you and some of the others here who are stronger than you. What do you want us to do about the Constitution, bring it in by force? It doesn't occur to us. The constitution must be an expression of the widest of national aspirations. The Constitution is not passed for a year and the Constitution is not adopted in four years. The constitution is passed in 20, 30 and 50 years. If we can get it, we'll get it. If we can't bring it to anyone, nothing. That's why I didn't mention him. Because you'd tell me, you'd block the constitution, and then you'd tell me, you didn't meet it. That's why I didn't mention him. Change of the Constitution is a condition for us to join the EU. When we're at the door, then we'll talk about it, but it has to be the widest agreement of various political entities. That can't be what the government wants. We ourselves in society need to see what is important to us and to make arrangements. By the way, we went on a campaign and we talked, if they want to lift the preamble on Kosovo, and you will protect it, you in whose time Kosovo has gained independence. And how you protected him, with two statements. Now, hold my patriotic sermons. You've issued two whole statements. You fought so hard. I don't want to talk about Montenegro. Are you throwing something away? No, they like to steal, they don't like beer. These others love beer. As far as this goes, you say you're against European integration, that's fair. That's a clean attitude. I don't agree with that attitude, but it's nice that you told people. It's good to tell them. It is good to tell all employees in foreign companies coming from the EU, because none would have come if it wasn't for Serbia on the European path. None. It is the first issue asked by Cromber Schubert, even Turkish Teklas, and Turkey has nothing to do with the EU or is not a member, has been on the European path for 50 years, exactly 53 years. So none would come to Serbia. It's good to tell people not to have a job. It's good to tell people we couldn't take our goods out. It's good to tell people it's hard to feed their families. I'm very happy about that. At the same time, you can't tell me that we did something bad about the Russian Federation, because I saw, say, President Putin four times as much as your party president, while he was in power, and he was a lot longer than I was. Not to say that Russia itself says it has the best co-operation with the Serbian government and Serbia at all in modern history. There, we did it. You ask how, we did it. As far as Chapter 31 is concerned, it is an obligation to bring ourselves into line with a complete European foreign policy and security policy only when we become EU members. Until then, let us do our job. Let us do what is best for our Serbia. Let us work and talk to everyone and draw as much as we can for our country and protect our independence and our sovereignty, because such a commitment would cost the citizens of Serbia dearly. It sounds nice to a lot of people I know and love when they hear something like that, except you shouldn't say it, because it's not even serious, and it's not even responsible. You tell us what we've lost about different contracts since we've been on the European road. You celebrated the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You celebrated it in Knez Mihajl's street, I walked by, I walked with my daughter, you gave me flyers, Alexander Popovic, and today he was with you, sharing flyers, "SSP – hope in the future or hope in safety, something like that", "it's feasible". For everything that you're guilty of, it's our fault today, but don't laugh, I'll give you one bad argument. Agriculture is badly negotiated. Agriculture is badly negotiated, but to put it aside, it has brought good things for Serbia. Here's to commending you, because you're attacking yourself all the time. This has brought good things to Serbia, because we have twice managed to reduce the EU trade deficit in those eight years, of course, most since 2013, to date, but still, we have twice managed to reduce the trade deficit. Let's just say it like that because we've repeated it five thousand times, and there's no one who can fit us on a daily basis. You're talking about the canal. I never mentioned the channel. I never said anything about a channel. I never said a billion because I know what a hundred billion is, but you found one member of our party to say it. You talk about electricity and tell the people that you gave us a lot of cheap electricity and I don't know what it is. Do you know how much of you have increased the price of electricity from 2000 to 2008, not to say that some others are guilty from 2008 to 2012? Do you know how many percent? So 970% versus 15% and still to hold our sermons here, and in that current today, 30% is cheaper than the cheapest electricity in Europe, than any country. You've increased 970% of the electricity price. Does that make sense? You say, "Icarbusa" bus. Go through Belgrade for a while, come and get Belgrade, and you'll see the Icarbus buses with the Mercedes Passion. They're nice and clean, neat and good buses. Otherwise, 81 were sold, if I'm not mistaken, last year, and this year we're expecting 125, and you missed it, and it's just hate. It's just because it's not important arguments, but the more we hate you, the louder we'll say it. It doesn't matter how much it's not true. You say, pensions between 10% and 20%. In total, pensions were reduced by 5.11%. Today it is 3.28% reduction from the moment we increased pensions, which is where you need to keep in mind that 60% of pensioners have more pensions than ever, and that it primarily referred to pensioners in large cities and 40% of them. I never ran away from talking about it, and I had to do it because of your irresponsible policy, among other things, both. You've ruled together for 10, 12 years. One supported on this level, the other on that level. Whatever. I didn't make much of a difference. You're right about cheap apartments. We've had some conversations. Now we've continued those talks. We're talking to several of our experts who say there's an interest in more foreign companies, so we'll see. I hope that next year we can discuss the tender and create conditions to do so. Look, it's not hard for me to admit it. It's not hard for me to admit, and that's what I said because I was already talking and I was sure we could do it. That's what we're different about. It's great that you noticed that the deficit is under control and that we have organized public finances, because that's a rare thing, and that people look at how and how to criticise even though the whole world praises. As for management in public enterprises, not you, but we have passed the Law on Public Enterprises. No party employment. No party employment and no employment at all. As for changes in public enterprises, I am the most critical, but the situation in both the EPS and the Railways is tenfold better. Second, to know that our railways no longer go just 26 kilometers an hour as they went in your time. Today take the Belgrade-Vršac track and you will either be 110 or 120km per hour. Pass the new trains to see how comfortable they are and how different they look. Is it bad? Yeah, it's bad, but we're gonna do it and build a lot of things in the next three or four years so people can get up there. There are people who want to see everything bad, who never want to see anything good. There are people whose cynicism is life characteristics and nothing more than that and that's all that bothers them. I see good bad things, believe me, much better than you do, but I also see those who are good and who are much more than they have ever been before. That is why I am sure that there is nothing Mr Jovanovic spoke of - external problems, problems in the region, problems related to political stability outside, I would be sure, absolutely certain of Serbia's certain and stable future. You were talking about young people. They seem to be leaving more. I don't think so. They're leaving less, but they're still leaving a lot, and we won't be able to stop it easily and no one can stop it easily. The EU countries have a proportional population of fivefold more outflows than we do. Both Poland and Romania and Bulgaria and Croatia, because they have work permits and can work in the EU's richest countries and earn bigger salaries and this is a process that you and I cannot stop, but we can slow it down and we can tell people how much it is – we know that it is harder in Serbia, something is better and it will be better and we ask you to help your country. That's what we can do. To ensure that Serbia is better than Germany in 100 years, in 100 years neither you nor I nor all of us will be together. Let's not lie to anyone anymore. It is one process that is happening and happening everywhere in Europe. The whole world is moving to Europe. Now all of the Sahara has started to cross over to Europe, and that's why we're having trouble with the migrant crisis. You can't stop them. They don't care about their roots, their own breast, anything. There are wars and there are problems and they come to the richest European countries and they will not go to Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, which are very rich, but want to go to Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Denmark. In the end, since you said we were going to do something about the country, I saw that you were a mantra, there was a story you kept repeating in the campaign, I never understood what you were talking about, since none of our laws allowed the sale of land to foreigners. I'm telling you that we're going to try to keep it by the reputation of how the Poles and the Hungarians did it and you're telling me -- no, no, we're against selling the land in every way. I'm not so tough and tough. There are other things here. That's gonna stop a part of the investor from letting them never come to your country, and I don't know where they'd take it, probably somewhere on Mars, in someone's head. There's something else. Aman, who gave that Todoric the land in our Vojvodina? Me or you? Who gave Todoric this land, who gave that land in the Odjaks? You or me? The emissaries are getting it. ) Think of what you gave to those criminals Jerkovic and others, what you gave to the thieves of Saric, so they brought the companies into bankruptcy, so those companies that were then given to someone else are no longer in bankruptcy, but they pay good wages and decent salaries to those people, and by the way, the director of the DS, what to do, so it comes to you, I don't know what. What are we now? Where did we come from? We talked about something, we only talked about things that didn't have much to do with the truth, but it could have gone away because there wasn't anyone who could answer. I don't have a problem. Every month I come here to answer you, and I'm not scared at all, I'm scared when someone says "Tweeter" -- I'm gonna do it and I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do a lot of things to him, or when someone else does -- real men measure something else, and I don't know what they measure. Here we measure knowledge and energy, and I don't know what these great men are measuring and I don't understand that kind of primitiveism. I'm not fascinated by the right to tell you this kind of pride and passion, at least because of the fact that I see that knowledge is not lacking. This wasn't about you, and I'm asking you not to blame me, and for this, I'm going to answer every time. There's something else you said. I think I've literally answered everything. I think I've answered everything. Yeah, you said about the television subscription, that it wouldn't be to avoid any question that was awkward or difficult for me. It's true, I said, and then there was no television subscription. Then the other independent authorities, which if I had put pressure on not to be a television subscription, you'd say, "Here it is, putting pressure on independent authorities, they said it's the best way, because if RTS was financed from the budget then the government would influence RTS policy." I said, well, no problem. Do it any way you want, whatever you want, unlike all of you, we haven't brought any journalists to RTS, and wherever the editor is, and I'm proud that we're with both that and that RTS and all the problems we're facing, with all the lies, the fakes, the lies we've managed to get significantly more votes than all of you together, which will happen to you next time. Thank you. (Milan Lapcevic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1003	Here, you have to sign up. The word is Milan Lapčević, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1004	Like this, exposés of previous governments. Three months have been waiting for governments in our time, but these governments have been coalitional and have been made by several parties. You had an absolute majority here and you promised that it would be put together before that. When did you get the exposés? Same thing you gave today, but you criticized it, too. Hate, cynicism. I have no reason to hate anyone. Why should I hate you, both you and anyone? Cinism. Well, I don't know what to tell you. Somehow whenever the word cynicism is mentioned, I remember you and your speeches in the Assembly both before 2000 and after 2000. A SSP studio of performance in our time. No, Mr. Vukic, you forgot that the SAA signed Bozidar Djelic and that it was a rock of discord that made us unable to co-operate further with the Democratic Party. This happened in 2008, and what you're saying, it was a feasibility study in 2005. In our time, Kosovo has gained independence. As far as I know, Kosovo isn't independent today, or did you make a lapus, probably? Kosovo has declared independence, but sorry, how do you prevent someone from declaring independence? And we were looking for a national consensus about it then, and you were involved in what we were looking for a national consensus. Why are you washing yourself off now? I don't think that's right. I'm not attacking you for anything, I'm just saying and quoting what you were saying and what didn't happen. So the electricity from 2000 to 2008 increased by how many percent? Well, do you know, and of course you know how much inflation there was before that and how much devaluation it was. Don't say anything that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1005	Thanks, time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1006	First of all, it wasn't even accurate information for science. Every year it increased by science from 11.4 to 11.5 billion and 11.7 billion. And that wasn't even true information. I have now received information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia about budgets and vaults. As far as coalition governments are concerned, I have nothing to say to you. And this is the coalition government, but that was enough for me to explain. As for Kosovo and Metohija, it wasn't a lapus for me, because you're talking about how to God, everyone else made an independent Kosovo, even though we don't talk about it. You guys talk about it all the time, and I just reminded you that it happened in your day, and that we didn't even accuse you of being guilty at the time. God forbid it happened in our time. Well, we'd be hanging out in the terraces. It happened in your time, and nothing happened to anyone. Of all the fighting and protection of Serbian national interests, you have issued two, perhaps three statements in seven days. The fourth would already be too high. As for cynicism, you're right. But not exactly cynicism, I was something else. I've rarely sinned against me, unlike you, it's not hard to admit. I was a fighter and I'm proud of it. I fought for what I stood for. But it's not hard for me to admit when I'm wrong. It's not hard for me to admit that I exaggerated in an attack on someone. It's not hard for me to admit a lot of things. Maybe a man's changed for years, I'm probably older than you, but I don't think that's bad, on the contrary. It's just, before I start criticizing someone, I say I made such a mistake, so I don't give him moral sermons, but I'm telling him not to do anything like that. That's the difference. I don't think it's too bad to make a mistake. It's terrible not to realize that you're wrong. As I don't think it's terrible to fall, each of us is falling, but it's very important to get up afterwards and keep fighting. As far as Serbia is concerned, I think, given the associates I suggested, but also the associates I had, it's in good hands. I think we took good care of our people's interests. As you've seen, all indicators and all trends are positive. Is everything ideal? Well, it won't be in 30 years. He's not even in Germany. Just please, to understand my words, think about what would happen if our plane was full of passengers, our 200 passenger operator, fell somewhere just like Angela Merkel did. Would I survive? Not politically. Angelie Merkel didn't say anything. What if we had so many helicopters that fell in accidents, not down, like the Russians and the Americans? What if we had as many victims in floods as the Germans and the French have? I'm telling you to see just what our nature is and how unfair we are to the people we've chosen, which I used to be, but it's not hard for me today, no matter what the worst things I've heard from Tadic, to say to something that was okay, and I've heard terrible nonsense. About "Storm" not to speak. Does that mean everything's wrong? Well, it doesn't. That's why it's just necessary, and that's what I've been talking about with Mr. Jovanovic, it's not about division, it's just about scarcity. I hope I've lost cynicism, even though I'm still a fighter, maybe sometimes I'm exaggerating, maybe sometimes I'm too sharp, and where there is, and when there is, every time you warn me, I'll see that I cut it in myself, because the djangrism is healthy, and cynicism is something that's not very good and at least nice to whoever it is. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1007	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1008	Thank you, Your Honor. I hope this third time I finish my presentation. Third time's the charm. Dear President, I have listened carefully to your exposés, and I can say that I have drawn four key words here, namely: stability, continuity, reform and results. It is these four key words that characterize today's Serbia. Serbia is a stable country, regardless of all the challenges we have, challenges in this turbulent world, challenges that are very large. There are no tear gasses in this Serbia, there are no riots. There is respect for the Constitution in this Serbia, laws are respected. In this Serbia, all the challenges are met with the right answers. We have a migrant crisis that is shaking Europe, and Serbia is giving the right answers to the migrant crisis. 700,000 people have gone through our country, set up, fed, treated. These people have no objections about how they treat them in Serbia. On the contrary, praise Serbia. We didn't put the wires on and we'll never put them on, but we'll also know we're running this country, keeping it stable. It may not suit someone, but I must tell you that Serbia is a stable country. The challenges are also great from our neighbors. We always give the right answers, we never accept any of their challenges that were to disrupt the situation. On the contrary, we're saying that we have our own way. Serbia is a country that wants good neighbourly relations with everyone. Serbia is a country of peace factor in the Western Balkans. Yeah, that's the Serbia we're fighting for. The second quality I highlighted, the second key word, is continuity, that in April, Serbian citizens said they wanted this government to continue its work, that this government continues to do what it has done, but with new energy, with new results, to increase these results. That continuity was said by Serbian citizens, which is what they want, whether they admit it or not. That continuity will be, I'm sure, and in the next four years, just the four years, where we have to finish everything that's been drawn up and what the previous Government started in 2014. Of course, we started all this through reforms. Reforms have come into life. Whether enough, we can discuss this, but basic reforms exist and these reforms have completely changed and changed this country to Serbia. Of course, the results are behind it. We're talking about these results a little bit. We're talking a little bit about how we managed to fix the fiscal deficit. You know, in 2014, when our fiscal deficit was 6%, or as the prime minister told us 8% with the general debt of the state, we now arrived at less than 3%, and we already dream of it being between 0.5% and 1%. That result is rarely mentioned, but it's very important, very important. No one mentions the result of our GDP and how we made it from those minuses to get to the plus. These are the results we have to talk about, for the simple reason they didn't come by themselves, nor can they come by themselves. It's the result of a lot of work. It is precisely because of these results that we have a very significant result of European integration. The dream of all the political parties that are for the EU is to open chapters. You know when we signed the SAA, when we did everything, but the chapters weren't open. How much work and how much effort it took to open chapters 32, 35 and these two circular chapters - 23 and 24. By opening these two chapters, I am absolutely sure that Serbia's path to the EU is impertinent, which means there are no more obstacles. It remains to work and to open almost most of the chapters and close by the end of the term of office of this government. I stress, and that is what I purposely say here in the National Assembly, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is for the EU and we will always remain for the EU. Why? We know it is not a paradise garden, but we need the EU because Serbia is in Europe and it must be an integral part of that community of people. We need EU standards and criteria. That's when Serbia will change, and we want to change it and we changed it. Why am I stressing that? Because these standards should live here in this Serbia, and Serbia is in Europe. That's why we'll always insist that we change, change, be better. Of course, we've passed a whole set of laws, laws that are reform, laws that are pro-European. I'll tell you right now, the laws can't change everything. The hardest thing to do is change our minds. The most difficult thing is to change our view that we are specific, that we are always something special and different from others. No, I don't. You know, the word reform is mentioned a lot in Serbia. I spent many years reforming the school system, reforming the economy, reforming reforms, but it always gave up somewhere. This government, and I believe in it, will not give up on reform. They will not give up on the European path that we have plotted, and we will realize it. I think it has this capacity, that it has this energy and that it will be realized in the next period. This is precisely because of Serbia, so we don't become an unfinished state, that we always start something, and we don't end it. If we started Corridor 10, we haven't finished it in 30 years. If we started Corridor 11, we haven't finished it yet. We started and gave up a lot when we ran into the first obstacle. I also have to point out that in our country you really don't live easy. It's hard. The standard of living cannot be fixed easily and quickly, but what the Social Democratic Party always insists is that only what is earned can be spent. So no new duties, no vote purchases, no citizens' purchases, can only be spent on what's earned. It's an alpha and an omega of every job, everything we do and what we do next. Also, when I emphasize what we've been changing, which means that we need to change in other respects, I especially point out one of the facts that the Prime Minister said in his exposé. He said the word social dialogue. Since my backgrand is union, I respect and love that word very much. Yes, the lowest price of work needs to be agreed. As explained, the lowest labour price is negotiated by employers and trade unions, and the government is just someone who intervenes to come to the deal. When we talk about the social status of employees, of course it needs to be improved, but there is a market and on that market we need to know who can sell what is more expensive and where is more valuable, if we're going to go to those branches, in those areas where knowledge can be sold better. That's exactly what we have to insist on, and there's been talk here about IT technologies and everything else. When I talk about all this, I have to stress one other thing. This morning, I was surprised by the headlines of our newspaper. It says everywhere – Vukić increases wages and pensions. It doesn't say anything that Wolf didn't say that. He said, "We've done well, we've got resources, and we're ready, in accordance with what we've earned, to raise wages and pensions, to increase precisely those who have the least." Now, that's the place where our consciousness changes the hardest. We're used to just taking from the state, not giving to the state. You can't take from the state unless you give it to the state. That's exactly the kind of consciousness we need to change over an advanced period, and that's possible, of course. There's a lot that's been done. There's been a lot of words about it. I wouldn't say how many foreign direct investments last year, a billion and 850 million, where we're on the Duing List, what we've done, how many jobs are open. Of course, nobody's happy that the salaries aren't bigger, but give us jobs, and we'll keep looking through the competition for better wages. What is also important and what Serbia does and does, is that we are an example in the region, in collaboration with our neighbours, in avoiding all the differences that exist and taking care of our country's interests. We also take care that we have a continuation of dialogue with Pristina, of course, to find the best solution we can have to make us feel better. Speaking of Serbia, I cannot as a Social Democrats not to stress that there are very large differences, social differences that are increasingly deepening. There are ways, many riches are created by corruption and on behalf of the Social Democratic Party I welcome the adoption of the Law on the Origin of Property. I stress that because many have come up with very large assets with small salaries, and that is exactly where there is space to charge much more and more justly than those they have, and then we can finance what we need. I mean health care, that's where I think about education and all the other areas that are in a very difficult situation for us, which I think we're going to find the right solutions. Of course, real solutions exist, exist, and I think we're looking for them. If we focus on how we've been doing the results we've achieved, it'll get better and better, because we have a good basis, but we can't give up, we can't give up on any obstacle, anything to happen to give up what we've drawn. Of course, there was talk of what our advantages are, where our advantages are in agriculture, I would especially highlight the advantages we have in tourism. You know, in our country, for the first time, we'll have a billion euros from tourism, in Novi Sad and Belgrade, you can't get past how many foreign guests there are. So something that we did specifically with vouchers, so tourism as one of the development opportunities, such as IT and technology, is all that we insist on. I've always stressed the SDP is an integral part of this ruling coalition. We're a game that fights for society of equal odds, that each of us can work with his work to earn and support his family. We're also in favour of consensus. We are also able to make arrangements on some issues, and that we can move on and that we can move forward. I said, this government has results, it needs to point them out. This government is also in your exposé that you presented yesterday, and I have the exposés you made in 2014, I've read it well in the previous days, analyzed what's been done, clear goals and clear tasks. We also have clear goals and clear tasks in this new exposé. I stress the SDPS gives full support to this government, expects new energy, the realization of new tasks, and I expect to be able to say in 2020 that Corridor 10, Corridor 11 to Cacak, has been completed, all chapters for the EU have been closed, and that is already a historic success. Of course, I want her to have a chance in all areas, and that's agriculture, and I'm looking at the new Minister of Agriculture, my Lucky, and it's a great pleasure to hope that she'll do a lot of things because she knows what agriculture means, which means livestock and what's left of it. Once again, I stress no populism, this government is working and has results and the SDPS will be happy to vote for the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1009	Thank you. Just to see who's picking up, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out, out. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1010	Dear fellow Members of the People, God helps all. I would like to say on behalf of the Serbian Movement Group of the Dveri, an introductory counter-exposure to what he had to say to us by the prime minister for the composition of the new government. Namely, when asked what he thought of your authority, the great Spanish drama artist Petar Bozovic, said Aleksandar Vukic made a huge contribution to the dramatic art. And, indeed, Mr. Wolfichu has something in your acting line that's quite exaggerating, because it's not realistic that you can't form a government for three months, and then you're holding a session of the Assembly in 24 hours. On the other hand, I am increasingly convinced that your idea of the National Assembly being humiliated and marginalized, and that the Serbian government and you personally assume all political power in the country. Things are completely the other way around. You will be elected by the National Assembly and will be responsible for your work. An analysis of your work programme will begin with what is not in your exposé and the composition of the reconstructed Government of the Republic of Serbia, because, to be clear, this is not any new government, this is the simplest reconstruction of the government you could have done without a choice. Throw out the bad ministers, put in new ones you think will work better. Then why did you go to the election? To hide your responsibility for selecting bad ministers and to get six months of absolute power without the control function of the National Assembly. I listened carefully to you yesterday for six hours, I didn't leave the gym. Is it possible that your fellow MPs can't listen to my 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1011	Ambassador, the prime minister is silent and he's listening to you. Don't make such a picture of the public when it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1012	Well, it's a picture of the SNS and the opposition trying to be correct, but it can't get on the other hand the same correctness. If I may continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1013	Absolutely, it would be nice, really and useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1014	So, let us not forget, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you are required to answer parliamentary questions and that all your ministers report every three months on the work of the relevant assembly committees. So you've been in power for half a year without any control of the technical mandate. There is no Ministry of Family Care in your program, no fight against the white plague and incentive measures to support birth, young married couples and families with more children. And if you're finding yourself a big problem that in ten years we've lost four hundred inhabitants. If you, Mr. Vukic, do not realize that resolving the demographic extinction of the Serbian people should become a state priority, we do not need you as Prime Minister. You've missed the key role your government should have played. I remind you that without demographic restoration, there is neither economic nor security nor Serbia's future. Birth equality and special rights for the LGBT population are obviously more important to you in the exposé than family and birthrights. No concrete measure for family policy has been proposed. No family ministry, no motherhood as a profession, no tax breaks for decades-old families, no state subsidies to obtain family home and start a family business. Your exposé has absolutely failed on this most important issue. The same applies to the Ministry of Serbs outside Serbia who is not there. You have completely forgotten that a third of Serbs and Serbian citizens live outside Serbia's borders in the former Yugoslav republics and throughout Serbia's deployment. The Serbian diaspora invests in Serbia several billion euros a year through a sign, and belongs to the largest foreign investor under allegations. And what does he get in return? You have not honoured them either by the ministry, not to mention the eased electoral law, the incentive measures for investors from the divisor or the preservation of national identity through a branched system of supplementary schools in the diaspora. Who is making it easier to gain citizenship for our countrymen outside Serbia, but please, what have you done on this matter for four years of your authority? Four years you've been in power, Mr. Wolfie, don't forget that. This isn't the new government. You can't choose for two years the director of the Diaspora Administration that you've reduced from the ministry to an ordinary office within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Two years. For you, our countrymen around the world are strangers, even worse than that, because foreigners are welcome here when they invest, and you offer nothing to the Serbian diaspora. Also, we don't hear enough words from your side when human, minority and national rights of Serbs are threatened in the surrounding countries. They don't even meet you when you visit the surrounding states. You wrote a few empty words about freedom of the media, and the media were never more closed to public debate than today. The best proof of that, immediately, that you, personally since you came to power four years ago, have not gone to a single direct television duel with someone who thinks differently from you. Does he need any more evidence? What I particularly want to point out is that I have not seen any change in Dinkic's neoliberal economic policy that you have been pushing for four years. You continue to give our money to foreign companies that come to Serbia only to take state money from the budget, cheap labour and all profits from abroad, often and I especially warn you and we have proved this, not paying taxes even on profits achieved in Serbia, because many of them falsely display their business in Serbia with a loss to avoid paying taxes. Will you tell me that foreign companies have come to Serbia to do business with their loss. You don't change anything compared to banks. There is no additional taxation of foreign banks that make extra profits from this country with the highest interest rates in Europe. This isn't the measure I invented, but it was first applied by your friend Victor Orban, so I don't see why you wouldn't. There is no additional mission of state money that would be invested in large infrastructure works, domestic banking, domestic economy, domestic agriculture. There is no support for cooperatives, the restoration of domestic agricultural combinations, the restoration of domestic industries, agricultural machinery, no guarantee that you will not allow the import of transport and the production of genetically modified food. On the contrary, we saw you here yesterday as a lobbyist for GMOs, although 127 cities and municipalities, if I am not mistaken, 127 cities and municipalities in Serbia have brought a declaration for Serbia against genetically modified food. So you don't respect most of Serbia. There are no most important issues for Serbia today, which is to stop the bank robbery of Serbian citizens and protect over-indebted families. You did not offer a solution for families who are in debt slavery to loans indexed in Swiss francs that after ten years of credit repayment have more to repay than at the beginning of credit debt. What's it called, Mr. Wolfie? It's not banking, it's greening and robbery. And you and the National Bank of Serbia allow it. We also suggested that you institute a personal bankruptcy and thus protect the overindebted family from taking away a family home by private perpetrators, but there is no such thing. We have proposed to you to rebuild the Payments Accountancy and that our money not go to foreign banks but through our financial institutions and the establishment of a state-owned investment bank, but it has nothing to do with it. You mentioned a re-examination of the origins of all politicians and tycoons but who trusts you more? Where were you for four years to pass that law? And the fact that there is no law is a symbol of your false fight against corruption and crime you announce that you will tax property for which no provenance can be proved, but it is not only taxation, but also legalisation of illegally acquired property. This stolen property is to be taken away, and the thieves are being prosecuted. You're saying someone destroyed and robbed the state after 2000. Who, Mr. Wolfie? Why isn't he in jail? You arrested hundreds of people. I don't see any judgments. It is enough to give you an example of the economic killer, Mladjan Dinkic, who is your closest associate, who has destroyed and ruined domestic economy and banking and which is still at large. Well, you've been waving his prison suit here, too. When are we finally going to put that suit on him, Mr. Wolfie? There are two Serbs. One in your exposé, the other in reality. You're a realistically bankrupt manager of Serbia. Since you are in power, public debt has increased by nine billion euros and reached 72% of our GDP. You've increased your foreign debt by six billion and internally by three billion and you're still boasting about the results. You, economically speaking, are Dinkic. You owe the state to the IMF and the World Bank, and it's no accident that you're surrounded by G 17 plus personnel, as well as the Democratic Party and the SPS that you often attack to blame for this or for that, and you take their personnel. I don't see the logic in that. Of course, there are no more sparks between you and LDP, since your politics are the same. You said very well, we must not strip the people of everything we stand for and where we share the same understanding as the LDP because we would lose the election. You say yourself that you would lose in a people's referendum, so there is no people's declaration in Serbia long ago. It's not in the Brussels Agreement, it's not about NATO agreements, it's not about GMOs. Is it possible, Mr. Vukic, that in the state you run, workers in foreign companies wear diapers in their workplace so they don't interrupt work and go to the bathroom for a while? Is it possible for some phantoms to tear down an entire street in downtown Belgrade without four months being able to find out who the perpetrator is? Is that the future we should believe in? That we all work as slaves with a foreign boss and the phantoms rule our lives and do what they want with our property. I personally appreciate your industriousness and your working energy, but I am obliged to draw attention to you to criticise your own people as lazy. You've been on the state salary your whole life and you've never worked in the private sector, you should bow down to domestic businessmen who are full of budgets and come out so kindly and with such great incentives as you're going out to a foreign investor who comes here just to rob us and take everyone abroad. Tell me, Mr. Vukic, since you often introduce yourself as a great economic expert, which country in the world has developed foreign investments? Just give me a hint and I'll be very pleased. What country in the world has developed foreign investments? Or they were all developing by other economic models from domestic sources. What does a temporary reduction in wages and pensions that lasts for three years mean? Many pensioners won't wait for the end of your temporary salary and pension cuts, let alone the increase. Besides, it's not an increase. It's the beginning of a robbery. You've shown strength, Mr. Wolfie, on the poor and medium layers. Why didn't you do it to the banks when you were such a strong and powerful politician? Why didn't you hit on tycoons who didn't pay hundreds of millions of euros in taxes to this country? Why didn't you hit the side of the company that, as I told you, is showing business with losses and false bookkeeping and profiting abroad? Keep your mouth shut about that. You're attacking civil servants. And in this first part of my address, let me say one more thing about your foreign and national policy. You're the last Eurofanatic in Europe. No one believes seriously in the EU anymore. Don't, as we were the last Yugoslavs, communists, when the communist Yugoslavia fell apart on our eyes, we are now the last Euro Unions and Eurofanatics, when the EU falls apart on our eyes. So, after Bregzit, believing in the EU makes absolutely no sense. You're making agreements with the NATO Pact that bombed us and you're keeping quiet the consequences of the bombings of the poor uranium from which we have a huge increase in cancerous diseases in our society. It's not in your health policy. How are we going to save ourselves here? From your friends from the West and the consequences of Serbia's bombing. You want to cooperate with Russia, and you recognize Crimea as part of Ukraine. Well, that can't be done, Mr. Wolfie. What's important is, what did you respond to Vladimir Putin asking you to start negotiations with the Euro-Asian Economic Union? Are you not allowed to report to Putin because of Brussels, as you were not allowed to answer his call to strengthen economic co-operation and to perform more organisedly on the empty Russian market after the introduction of Russian sanctions to European food producers? On the blind road to the EU, you are obviously ready to sacrifice every national and state interest. The Dvors tell you, the real policy is less the EU, more Russia. The future of Europe in Europe is a nation that will not command the alienated power centre from Brussels. Think urgently about Europe after the EU and our place in it. Think urgently about Russia as a new international power centre that has never bombed us, which is fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and which offers us co-operation in political, economic and military security. What you can't tell the citizens of Serbia, I can. The European Union robbed us through a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. By abolishing customs duties on foreign goods, we destroyed domestic production and handed over all profits to foreign multinational companies. When you tell us -- the EU gave us that and that and that million gifts; and I tell you -- they robbed billions and donated millions. What can I say about national policy and relations towards Kosovo and Metohija? You abolished the Serbian Constitution, abolished all state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, handed over power to Albanians, in your biography that you delivered to help in April 2013 to obtain the signing of the Brussels Agreement, which was the first time in 1990 to create a real basis for the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija to establish institutions that would be recognised by the international community. Today is 2016, after three years there are no Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. So, you have deceived Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija and the only solution is the annulment of anti-Constitutional Brussels agreements, the suspension of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija in Brussels and the return of negotiations to the UN Security Council. Your story about banning party employment is just another big lie. You've hired thousands of advances across the EPS and Telekom, under a contract for temporary and occasional jobs and thus violate your own employment ban regulation. The cultural budget is getting smaller, only the workers, the employees in the area didn't raise their salaries, don't forget, it has to be said on their behalf. How many times have you fooled the enlighteners, not to mention. Cyrillic is a minority letter to you in your own country, and you can't even arrange that every public inscription has to be on Cyrillic in this country. It has to be on Cyrillic in this country. Dispute with the Croats, it would be better to create a serious museum of genocide victims, so that when your friends from the west come to see and tell them the history of Serbian casualties in NDH. We are absolutely opposed to your ongoing plans and attempts to privatise strategic state-owned enterprises and natural resources of Serbia. We are against the sale of Telekom, against the sale of EPS, against the sale of Galenika, against the sale of airports, against the sale of PKKs and our sources of clean drinking water, agricultural land, ore and other treasures. Our largest funds are not in the EU, but in Kosovo and Metohija, which are taking away from us because both Kosovo and Metohija lie on the wealth of all species, especially the mineral and water that are worth hundreds of billions of euros, more than we will ever get from the EU lies in Kosovo and Metohija. The agricultural budget remains scandalously small and does not meet a legal minimum of 5% of the total budget. Serbian peasants feel left behind by their country that is more helpful in the arrival of large foreign trade chains than domestic agriculture. First, by drastically reducing subsidies, and then by low ransom prices. Doctors and nurses go abroad every day and soon when a number of doctors retire, we won't have specialists to treat us. You want to be a minister in all ministries, mayor in all cities and presidents in all municipalities. Then who will be Prime Minister? Why do the bad leaders of local self-government work? I'll tell you. Because they sit on the balcony of the National Assembly as we discuss here, council members of various municipalities of Belgrade, leaders of Belgrade City and do not do their job, which they are supposed to do today, but are sitting here, applauding and wasting their time in the session of the Serbian Parliament. And for the end of this part, the Serbian Dvora movement doesn't see any improvement in your exposé, you're doing everything the old way. Your policy has been overcome and the Dweri parliamentary group will vote against your government's election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1015	I'll give you my word. I see it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The mandater wants to answer you, etc. I'm just obliged to tell you something. I can see everything you know, but you don't know this. Article 108. The Constitution – the subject matter of the referendum cannot be the obligations arising from international contracts, so never again seek a referendum for something forbidden under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1016	It's not an international contract, it's a political contract. The Constitutional Court said so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1017	I don't know, I'm a lawyer, but I don't know how to explain it to you and help you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1018	You say yourself, it's not an international contract, it's political.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1019	Don't yell. It is my good desire to help Members in education not to present such a thing, since indeed, we must all respect the Constitution or at least know it well because we are MPs here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, don't say words like that, to lead citizens of Serbia astray that something can't do when it can't. It's nice in the Constitution defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1020	You mean what the Constitutional Court kept quiet?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1021	Well, now, run for Constitutional Court President, I don't mind. I only want to help you, because I'm in good faith and I'm president of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1022	Well, don't help anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1023	Take it easy, take it easy. It's gonna be okay. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. I don't know, Mr. Obradovic, if that speech, seeing as you haven't almost raised your head, was written by Jasmina Vujic, who works as an expert associate, if I'm not mistaken, in the US Army nuclear program. I don't know where you got the courage to honor someone working in the public sector. Well, the first thing I've done as chairman of the Administrative Board is sign you a solution on the establishment of a working relationship as a MP with the day of June 3rd 2016. Tell me, where did you show your creativity? Where do you work? What's your work experience? Where did you get the knowledge of all those areas you mentioned? Yesterday a man said well that demographics, that negative natural growth is a big problem. He said nicely that Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in the new government of the Republic of Serbia as a minister without portfolio, would be in charge of dealing with demographics and resolving this major social problem. You are the one who went to the coalition elections with the party that conducted the worst possible robbery privatisation during the period of the first and second governments of Vojislav Kostunica. Of the 24 controversial privatisations shown by the European Commission, if I am not mistaken, 23 were conducted at the time when the Republic of Serbia was ruled by you and your coalition partners from the DSS. As the height of political genius, you came to the idea that the day after Prime Minister Vukic opened the drive of a Turkish company in Vladica's Han, you took pictures and photographs outside that hall and you said – this hall should be torn down and returned to the state when iron was standing there and no worker worked. I wish you weren't ruling Serbia. Well, in 24 hours, this country has failed. Well, we'd be changing foreign policy from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1025	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1026	I am not asking to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it is not correct for you, Madam President, it is not your fault, but I was obliged to respond to lies and lies that Serbian citizens are not obliged to suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1027	Thank you. I also wanted to tell you that I really can't stop someone from telling the truth. It's not up to me. I can't be a censor, it doesn't say that in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lapcitza.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1028	Article 104. Mrs. Gojkovic, if anyone is talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, they should speak about what this injury refers to, rather than insulting and calling other MPs or MPs' groups. Bringing out lies, harsh lies and counterfeits from Mr. Martinovic did not surprise us and it is not the first time. If there are, Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1029	Article 104 is a replica. He wasn't talking to you. I don't know how you guys recognized each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1030	Yes, he was insultingly expressing himself about the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1031	Then you have to look for a replica. So, sit down, member 104 isn't. Look for a replica, I'll give you a replica. Article 104 isn't. He's talking about something a hundred, so he can't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1032	Replica. If there was, as you say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1033	Please don't take your word for it when someone comes to mind. Please, this is the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't give you my word. I didn't shut you down before. Here, let me turn it off. Tell me your intention. Article 104, you missed that. It refers to something completely different. That's an order of violation of the Rules of Procedure. You turned to MP Martinovic and began to address him directly. Let's seriously go back to the debate and allow the prime minister to respond to Bosca Obradovic. I am convinced that he wants to hear the answer, and if it is necessary for the two to exchange political views on attitudes. You are now preventing the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Here, I'll let you do it one more time, but don't let those abuses of the Rules of Procedure hurt you, because there's a cure in the Rules of Procedure for that, and I don't want to spoil the good atmosphere. Here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1034	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1035	He can't, that's it. It says in the Rules of Procedure that he can't do the same thing over and over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1036	It was in the last one, but it wasn't now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1037	Thank you. So that I don't take time away from the parliamentary groups, I don't want to be rude and this is what it looks like. You'd better hold on. Please, the prime minister to respond to Bosca Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very important that people in Serbia hear where we would have ended up if others had received citizens' trust. Mr. Martinovic, you've gone too far. That country would disappear, literally disappear within 10 hours, not 24 hours. It's so scandalously unserious. It's on a ten-year-old's level. I have no words about what I've been listening to. I thought it was impossible to hear in modern Serbia. I only agree with one thing, whoever's from the city of Belgrade, any structure, has made the biggest mistake of wasting his time listening to it for 20 minutes here. It's a catastrophic mistake. We started with what some drama artist says. Okay, says the drama artist, says the other drama artist worse and the third, even worse. That's when they have something to say about someone. There's no drama about you or any other artist who'd waste his words. To answer all the lies and nonsense you said. You're talking about personal power and absolute power. Well, you don't know the Constitution or the laws. The Prime Minister has much less power and much less power in the technical mandate than in the full term. You have no idea. We can't make many decisions today that we'll be able to make tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. What do you care? You don't know anything, you haven't read anything, and it's important that you read and speak as quickly as possible and as loud as possible. The strength of the arguments is not measured by the power of the decibel you produce, but by someone's knowledge and education, but by someone's knowledge of things. You say you could have reconstructed the government. We could have. We could've had no government reconstruction, but we thought it best to have elections, to show people that you without a coalition had 10% almost dropped to less than five or five percent, all together. We're going to talk about what happened that election night, etc., and we're going to talk about it for a long time, about the various pressures both on the outside and on the inside and who was chasing who to beat, to hit women, and I don't know what everything, to show his heroism by turning his hand on women. Big hero. The white plague you're talking about, it's true, it's a serious problem, a very serious problem, and we don't have a solution, we don't have a solution. All the solutions I have read so far are not convincing enough and far richer nations than us have no solution and do not know how to solve this problem. So we agreed that one member of the government was dealing with this problem, to bring us what has proved to be the best possible solution in the world so far, to show, to see what it is that we can do as a state. What did you offer us as a solution? The Department of Family Care, to spend a little more people's money. We'd better give some mother money and some kid some money, rather than have more employees working in some new ministry. That's your solution -- give the Ministry of Family Care, just to spend money, so give another ministry for Serbs outside Serbia, so we have 50 ministries. We won't. We don't need the Ministry, we need solutions. We need solutions, not ministries. You say - the ministry of Serbs outside Serbia. You're saying I'm not meeting with the Serbian diaspora. Where have I not met with the Serbian diaspora? I recently had a meeting where we brought all the most prominent Serbia from all over the world and the first prime minister to do so was me. First Prime Minister. I just did it. Where I didn't meet in the region. I've never gone to Montenegro since I was prime minister. You're not ashamed and ashamed. So you lied about it, and every thing you said was made up. Of course I'll meet with the Serbs in Montenegro when I go to Montenegro. I was in Albania and I met with Serbs from Albania who are few. I was in Macedonia and met with Serbs. With Milorad Dodik, I have had more meetings than your phone call leaders have ever had with Republika Srpska and Zeljko Cvianovic. We managed to do it as a government that Serbs are finally complicated, that we have no problems, that we are not saying anything against anyone else, what the Serbs have never had. You don't know what you're going to find out from your empty and fictional stories that you've enjoyed, and you've finally believed it yourself. Make something up and believe it yourself, no matter what the truth is. What country is this where I haven't met with Serbs? It's not there, because you've invented it and because you can do it over and over again, and you mean that you're going to yell a hundred times and think that you're louder and more convincing. There's no such thing as land. In America, I met with Serbs, believe it or not, and I met with Serbs twice. In addition to all the obligations I had meeting with American officials. I've met them twice. About Serbs in Croatia not to talk, on different levels, with different people. With Serbs in Romania, too. Everywhere there are Serbs, I've talked to them. You're talking about neoliberal politics. Personally, I'd have nothing against liberal politics, but unfortunately, it's inconclusive in the modern world. In Serbia, it will never be enforceable because we Serbs love the involvement of the state in everything and we like the state to solve all our problems, so this... Everything but a liberal state and it doesn't look like it, but I don't want to talk about theoretical models. As for lobbyists, I'm no lobbyist for GMOs, not against that, except yesterday I told you the truth. Otherwise, it's a fish leaf mutation. I was thinking about each other's fish, and that's why I didn't want to talk. Mutation of fish leaves and tomatoes appeared in 1994 for the first time on the American market and for the first time recognised in such a way. I didn't do any lapus, and I didn't say anything stupid. You don't even know what you're doing so much for God's sake. You're talking about banks. What would you like to do? Should we close all the banks? So we can get all the banks out of here? Do you know how much we fought the moment Franklin Templeton started pulling his money at the beginning of the year, not affecting our exchange rate, that we don't have any problems? In one day, you would have destroyed Serbia. In one day you'd have a tenfold increase in course. Serbia would disappear in one day with such behaviour, as you imagine the state. It's so irresponsible and so unserious that I just don't have the words. It's on the children's level. With banks, you have to work very carefully. Legal security must not be compromised. You have to take care of the roles the state guarantees. You have to take care of the roles of the economy. You have to, literally, like an egg to step on when you talk about it. Don't forget, you're talking about interest. We've put the interest down three times. They're three times lower than they were four years ago. Three times lower, and we did it not only because of interest rate policy, but because of macroeconomic stability, above all, thanks to fiscal results. That'd be in a day to tear it down. You'd ruin it in one day, because it sounds so nice – I'm going somewhere, so I say, hey, we and the Russians, we're going with these, and we and the Russians are so that no Russian has ever seen, especially anyone important. You think Putin ever took them? Do you think they were received by Medvedev? They didn't, but I did nine times already. It's just a little difference, you know. Maybe Angela Merkel will take them. They say we haven't introduced a personal bankruptcy. Do you know what they mean by personal bankruptcy? To put yourself in charge as long as you want. It's their idea. I tried to explain to them that the way they imagine it is impossible. Personal bankruptcy is a good idea. That's what we talked about, but if you want us to introduce it, I know the Serbs won't, and I'll tell you why they won't. Because the Serb won't match his property. They would like a personal bankruptcy, but that the Serb is not responding to his property, but to match someone else's property, state property, to be in charge, to spend money, but to match my assets, not his own. That's what they'd want, and that's how they imagined personal bankruptcy, believe it or not. The personal bankruptcy that exists in the United States, in every serious country, such a Serbian bankruptcy will not, in particular, these great Serbs, for God's sake. They say they're in debt to the IMF. We didn't take the dinar, you didn't follow. There's that in the news, sometimes they call. We didn't even take the dinar. What are you gonna do, it's... You said one thing I didn't want to feel for you, which was a notorious lie in our media as well. You're saying that in Serbia, our workers wear diapers in their workplace. You're crying again, you're complaining about people who should be working. It didn't happen anywhere. You made it up on the spot, as did one newspaper who published it. And the unions from that company know it's a lie, but what do you care, it sounds nice to you. What's the point of what you said? Let's see the meaning of what you said. The point of what you said, first, let's not do, secondly, I'm here to protect you, because when we come to power the falling money with no, since we won't have foreign investors, we won't have anyone, but there will be something coming from the sky, so she'll add something to us. So far, she's taken, she hasn't given, but now she's going to give up in the future, no problem, and then we're all going to live nice and rich. Where's that? How's that? You say, "Tell me a country that is successful thanks to foreign investments." There's not one that's successful without being based on foreign investment. Here, I'll give you an example of how you respond. Germany, created in the marshal's plan and American money after World War II. Germany, the most powerful European country, all based on foreign investment, but you don't know it, and what you would know. That's what the books say, and the books are too much sometimes. Let it go, or let's say Singapore didn't come from who I don't know. Macedonia, which is successfully, is developing relatively successfully. It is developed thanks to foreign investments, and getting baptized, be baptized in church, not everyone in the congregation has a place to be baptized, and it will not help you to read a book of baptism, so that you do not worry. Don't worry about me, I've helped the Church in my life more than you have. I've helped a lot more churches than you've ever talked about. From Ranilug to Gracanica, Decana to all others. No, for them to be baptized, they serve in the congregation, not in the church. They go to that sectarian, the one that's separated from the Serbian Church. Yeah, that's where the money comes in, I guess. Next, I didn't understand you about the Euro fanatics. I'm no Euro fanatic, and I wouldn't mind at all, if I did, defending that position. I didn't. I just seem very rational, very real and serious and responsible to our country and our people. I know where we export the most, I know who produces the most, I know where we can do and what we can do most for our people. The second they start working against our national interests, the first thing I do is I spray and I say this can't and this isn't the case and I don't have any problem with it. It's a serious policy, and it's that I share people with Eurofanatics, like this and stuff because I imagined it in my head, because I couldn't think of any other way to present my own policy, so that doesn't occur to me. You're saying the EU didn't give us money but robbed us. She didn't rob us. I didn't respond to Dragan Markovic today, and I should have. For floods alone, we got 120m euros in different ways. Of course, that's not all. I'm talking about direct, what I've seen through the account, and probably more and more of it's free money. One hundred twenty million euros show me what they took in Serbia, what did they rob? And where do we make 120 million euros? Who made it 120m euros in Serbia, so we could take it? We have an obligation at least to say – thank you, to be decent hosts to say – thank you for helping us. Does that mean I'm gonna tell them everything's amazing what you suggested in Brussels? Well, it's not. On the contrary. I turned down countless ideas, countless plans, that's what I'm going to do in the future. I will always behave in accordance with the interests of the people, in line with the interests of the citizens. You say there are no Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, you speak exactly as Edith Tahiri says, you quoted Edith Tahiri, you are no different from Edith Tahiri, that's what she says. What kind of clinical centres, hospitals, health homes and what kind of schools do we pay for in Kosovo and Metohija? Well, we give 500m euros annually to our people in Kosovo and Metohija. You do not speak no institutions, 500m euros are set aside for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, how do we do that? By what and by whom? And you are telling me who are in coalition with those at whose time there has been a declaration against the legal independence of Kosovo and Metohija. We have 40,000 a month for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, so watch. I've never seen anything happen to us that someone gave up on it or that our demands were cut. You're talking about incentives, equal incentives for domestic companies and foreign companies. I was recently in two companies, I thought you were watching the news, domestic companies we gave the incentive to bigger than foreign companies. Any company that meets the requirements and gives us certain guarantees in terms of hiring people will get money. We just need to see that this company exists, not to give to phantom companies, imaginary companies, who take the money and never return it. Companies that don't have a market or goods, is that how the serious state behaves and takes care of its money? You say -- come on when you're strong, I'm not strong, I'm just the Prime Minister. That's what you like to say and don't be the ones who steal, so... When they steal, they do it with a smile and that's how they smile. As far as you're concerned, I'm not hitting anyone, but I wasn't afraid of your biggest allies and those who have supported your coalition partners for years, I wasn't afraid to stand up to the biggest tycoons in this country and today I'm paying that price through various media and through everything else they finance. As you've noticed, some verdicts have arrived. It's not true there's no verdict. And for those judgments, you said they were political, I kept my mouth shut. Because when they're gone, it's our fault, when they're there, it's our fault. Whatever you do, it's all our fault. I won't let you do that. We can be guilty of one thing, but for everything to blame, it's absolutely impossible. I didn't scare any of them, not a tycoon, not a bank, and I'll never be afraid of them. And tycoons, unlike the period of government of your partners, today do not rule Serbia. And that's a big change. Today, citizens of Serbia rule through their legally and legitimately elected representatives. Also, you're talking about Cyrillic, in every place because it's my commitment, I don't know why you told me that. First of all, I always use a Cyrillic letter. I'm talking about the need to protect the Cyrillic letter in every place, but we have two equal letters, Cyrillic and Latin. If someone didn't think I was wrong, it's Cyrillic, not Cyrillic. So, we have two equal letters, you want to tear down the boards, rip out canvass with Latin inscriptions? We don't want to do what others do. I'm proud to protect both letters, which are both our letters and we don't have any problems with that. You want us to destroy 25,000 companies that pointed out their company in a Latin letter? Yeah? I won't. I'll write myself a Cyrillic all the time. I watched in the government, about 70% of people use Cyrillic letters, 30% Latin, everyone has the right to do whatever they want. It's my job to work, to teach my descendants to write Cyrillic, and that's what I'm gonna do. And to drive everyone else away, I can't think of anything. I think it's so nice to write and use Cyrillic letters that there's no need to make anyone do it. I think it's such a nice, good letter that I can't think of, like I won't make anyone belong to my family or anyone else because I feel good and great in my skin. What I would make anyone feel, he has the right to feel better or equally well in a different way. In the end, you mentioned a museum of genocide victims, as unfair as everything you've been saying is, this was the most depicted. You see, unlike all the other previous governments and parties of those governments you're working with, which is why you entered this parliament, which not only did they not build a museum of genocide victims, they didn't even make monuments. We have just launched a memorial initiative for Stefan Nemanja, here in Belgrade. I'm not going to tell you that we've erected a monument to Gabriel Principe. I'm not going to tell you that we started marking "Storm" as one of the most serious crimes and the greatest ethical cleansing since World War II and that we're doing it all together with Republika Srpska. I would like to inform you that we are currently working and preparing and designing a museum of genocide and crime victims working at the Old Fair and that the Belgrade City Assembly is already working very hard, along with our Jewish friends modelling "Jad Vash" and Ministry, Alexander Vulin... So don't insult anyone, just so we can visit everyone what's been through what's been done by our people. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry to have so much to answer, but there have been some really amazing claims. I'm sorry if I overstepped in the length of the answer. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1039	You're in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1040	I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 107, which says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that no direct address is allowed to other people and that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions. The Prime Minister for the composition of the new government has used the term "nothing knows", "no idea", "stole", "steals", "steals", "these", "they"... It is a mass of offensive expressions in Serbian, in Cyrillic or Latin. I ask you, Mr President, to warn the next time the prime minister that he cannot address the MPs in such a way. The MPs are the hosts of this house. The Prime Minister, the prime minister, is a guest and should respect this home from personal training. But if they don't, I'm asking you next time to use what you've been assigned to do through Rule 108 of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1041	One moment. Article 107, Article 108. Would you like to vote on the injury of both members, 107 and 108? Yeah. You've taken two now. Let's see who else? Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. This is what the Rules of Procedure says. So we started working a long time ago, and I'm asking you all to study the Rules of Procedure and not yell at me every time I want to run a session in the Rules of Procedure. So, there's always an advantage to the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Please, you were against that seminar, and it seems he wasn't so vain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised someone who spent so much time in the library couldn't read the Rules of Procedure. Article 103(1), point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall apply. My fellow farmer, a colleague in an attempt to advertise the Rules of Procedure, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and perhaps he also wanted to abuse the vineyards, brutally abused his right and pronounced a classical replica. Therefore, I ask that the provision laid down in Article 8 be applied accordingly and that time be taken for which the Rules of Procedure has been misused, saying of all but the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1043	I mean, not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Is that what you thought? Do you think we should vote? No, I don't. So it's a reminder to me. The word has Milan Krkobibić. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. Please, replica. I asked for the replica 10 minutes ago. Is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure or what? They're yelling at me. I don't know if I should give in to a scream. Let's be correct, let's give it to you, and I'll give it to you. I'll give priority to the shouting of the day, and I'll give you my word. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: There is no right. He's got rights. Of course he's right. We're all equal, 250 equals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1044	Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Vukicu, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am now speaking as head of the parliamentary group and MP. Of course, I hope the prime minister hasn't changed his mind yet with the candidate's proposal. The Serbian government's business programme in the coming period was comprehensive, thorough and I would say based on really solid facts. I listened carefully for six hours. I wasn't texting, I wasn't commenting, and I think it was worth hearing. I've talked to a lot of people who share that opinion. We had something to hear, but today in this discussion, we really had something to hear. I hope we hear more. There are different political options here, and that is completely legitimate, and that is, I would say, very useful for the state of Serbia. We're here to exchange views, take views and take action. What does this program represent? In my opinion, it's an energetic deviation from the decades-old economy of misery, away from decades-old, I'd also say, strictly controlled chaos, and that's good. It was good today and it was Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's question, very well. Is there a policy here? There are also the terms of office's answers were very good, not in a valuable sense that I was assessing these answers, but a good addition to the presentation of the programme that we had the chance to hear yesterday. These are important questions for us. A relationship with the environment. Maybe I'd touch that other aspect of politics. It's a relationship in this programme of work and capital. Where here is work, in translation employees, pensioners, social aid users, and where those who organise the process of production. What they can expect from this whole thing is what they can expect from each other, and that's one very important question. I said we're different political orientations here. There are both left and right and centered. I'm inclined to believe that the left one must always be left to the right. I'm not kidding. The problem is when the right hand becomes too much and moves to the left side. We've got things mixed up today. From the people on the right, we'll hear extreme left-wing attitudes and vice versa. Maybe that's the rest of the understanding of politics for 20 centuries. This is the 21st century. Today the basic imperative of the group I want to talk about, they're employees, they're pensioners. Dear friends, it's long-term stability. Nothing but that. So, 800,000 people who have lost their jobs today with grief can remember that they have no job and will not get it unless we do the concrete things that this program predicts. They can complain, they can complain, they can lamentate, it's not worth it. As many as a million 700,000 pensioners have contributed to their solidarity. Someone will look at me with a surprise – if anyone has asked anyone. Of course not, but certain measures have been withdrawn. The responsibility to withdraw these measures was taken because the basic dilemma was not how much the pensions would be 10%, 20%, no, but – whether they would be or not. It was a dilemma. For serious, responsible people, that's what floated. The answer is given – if we don't make that solidarity contribution, I call it solidarity again, and I know it's a heavy blow on these people, it's not easy to get someone out of their pocket 10 or more percent in the crowd, the prime minister says it's over 5%. Of course it's not easy, but, look, we're serious people, we run jobs, we've been doing jobs, does anyone here think there was some short-term measure that could give a better result or effect? Yeah, someone will say that. We could have taxed the tycoons. Can we do it in a day or two or three, or when we put them in the process of how this process will end and when we charge for it, and the measure has to be short-term, fast? We could have tried some other things, I'm not running away, but responsiblely I say that no measure short-term, I repeat - short-term, not medium-term, not long-term, could give this result and gave the result. We heard from the exposé of the parameters, there's no need for me to repeat them. Both the IMF and the World Bank and all the people in the profession said the right things were done. We do not always run away from accepting other solutions behind which are truly convincing reasons and justifications. Pensions and wages, I think, are about 380m euros in savings on that. Could we get it by putting public enterprises in order? We could have done it in the middle and long term. We have information that public enterprises in this year, if I'm not mistaken, have given us about 8.5 billion profits in the last year. Right? That's much better than last year. Is that satisfying? Of course not. Only one of them, I don't have to name now which, when put into harmony and order, will be able to put half a billion euros into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why not put it in? Who founded the company without profit? He's not a private, he's not a state. It is a basic motive, especially if these companies are, I repeat, market positioned. And those who only have to do the job, the flow water heater. The way we put the money in them, they'll be doing so many favors. You can't expect them to. Of course, reforming public enterprises is the key to all the keys and the prime minister has precisely defined it. There's going to be a weight, but there's a surface view, I'd say. It all comes down to who's gonna be director, what kind of director he's gonna be, or say he's gonna be professional. People, I don't know today if public enterprises in Serbia are running volunteers, working until three o'clock in the mine, and then three come to run businesses. And that's how professionals are when they're supposed to get paid. But if their results are professional, that's something else. There's going to be a lot of work here, and I like the one in the exposé, if you've been following it, announcing that mandate something new. We're going from the waiting stage to the expected phase. Things are defined, which, and within what time limits, companies will be detained, which are privatized. Why is that necessary? It is necessary that these companies, which are preparing for privatisation, could withdraw the appropriate measures that will lead them to a successful transfer of ownership. Of course, the issues related to the banking sector are inevitable. I think that's what the Prime Minister was talking about. Unpaid claims are a big ballast and that's something that's a potential mine. I know he's aware of it, and he's going to take serious steps. They say it's almost 3.5 billion in those uncharging claims. There are domestic banks, but there's also a bunch of foreign banks. Look, we've done something that no one has succeeded, to destroy some foreign banks. It's part of the mentality the prime minister often speaks of, so now these claims have banks that are completely foreign-owned, which is completely unimaginable. Now the question is raised, and we appeal to the Prime Minister that, as he knows and can, the idea of all this is evenly arranged, or schedules in the right way. Quick moves aren't moves. We need foreign banks, we need fresh capital, we need what he's potential for, and no one is today. We need a financial market, we need a capital market. I'll tell you, the transport of the Belgrade Stock Exchange last year is symbolic -- 176m euros. We need the capital market, we have to do it. And we heard that in the exposé as an announcement. We want to keep our own funds, and we have 8.5 billion citizens of Serbia on savings in business banks, to put them into function of our development. That doesn't mean we stop the flow of foreign investment. It's a little less than three billion, and I'll be happy when they cross the three billion, because since I've known it's mostly been said -- three billion foreign investments and 3% deficits. That's the mantra. Okay, we're down here, and the investments are somewhere around here. It's something he promises, which gives us hope. Dear friends, primarily Serbian citizens, pensioners, we also heard the fate of the population. A million and seven hundred thousand men wait for the postman twice a month, and God forbid he comes to them. But God does not have much of it if this government does not provide these funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'll tell you an interesting piece of information. When we enter the Post Office of Serbia, when we unlock the door, the cost of that day is between 500m euros and 1m euros. So, that day you have to end up with at least one euro above it. I don't know, there's a finance minister, he's not here right now, what it costs a day of the Serbian state. We have to pay off 1,700,000 pensioners and 800,000 people working. It's a serious task. That's the responsibility, that's the imperative. They wait and expect. So I say and repeat crucially: long-term stability has no alternative. It's the regularity and security of payouts and pensions. It is up to us, on the future composition, to make tough moves, to continue the reform course. There will be resistance, there is no dilemma. Individual and group interests are more than present and they are suppressed, but they must not be underestimated. We also have something called an external factor. It's often said here, I don't know if today is said, whether this government is left, right or center, whether it's Russian, pro-European, pro-American. I am sure she is Serbian, as I am sure the concept of economic policy is our concept of economic policy. Don't let Ivica Dacic exult, it's not that NEP Lenin's new, it's our economic policies. That's why I won't take any more time, I'll conclude by quoting Mrs. Danica Popovic. She once said, "What counts is nothing but the result, what you have found and what you have left behind." The wolf found what we heard two years ago, and in two years, we heard what he left behind. He left something solid for a fresh start, but along with all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1045	The replica is being decided by the President of Parliament, Article 104(3), and I decided 15 minutes ago. Here you go. I'm sorry, I don't know your name, and you're not in the system. Maria Janjušević. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1046	I declare breach of Rule 27(2) of the Rules of Procedure. - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. To assure you that we are learning quickly, because I heard this from you in the first session, I will also remind you that the president of the Devere Parliament Group did not yell when you denied it, or I hope you delayed only the replica, but defied it. I'm still wondering how it's possible, because we're new, so maybe I didn't understand the prime minister, actually the prime minister's candidate, that he said that the candidates for the government couldn't speak, so I'm curious -- how could we have listened to Mr. Krkobibic's praises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1047	Thank you. Still, it takes a little more experience and work, and you've quoted it exactly the 27th, and I'm applying it. So Article 104(3) is the key to everything, to understand what the essence of the Rules of Procedure is and why someone is sitting here in this place at all, and not in the benches. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: When will we get a new Rules of Procedure? So one day for sure. Not bad at all, although it was brought by the Democratic Party, it just needs to be applied and I am trying to apply it as much as possible, with the help of, of course, all of you MPs. On second thought, third year, it's not a bad Rules of Procedure at all. As for what you said next, I just have to tell you, first we pick the Prime Minister and the Government, then we'll ask them questions. Right now, we have no one to ask questions, and the rest of us are going to do it through the discussion, so we can't get up and question him. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. ( ) No replica, Article 104, paragraph 3. Please read it. So someone has to decide in this House. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: I am the only head of the parliamentary group who does not have the right to reply. So, everyone has rights except me. No, you have the privilege of yelling at me as much as you want, I don’t even allow it to happen to others. You're a little more likable to me, so feel free to yell at me, but we'll keep working. Hope Macura warned me this morning on the morning program that I'm going to have verbal stress today and I'm trying to avoid it, because every morning I'm getting ready for my job. I now give my word to Ambassador Vojislav Seselj, who has been patiently waiting for hours. Don't shout, abuse of the Rules of Procedure, two minutes less, I warn you. Here you go, Ambassador Seselj, I know you'll manage and you'll be louder. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: This is your attitude towards the opposition. You've been talking for ten hours, not two minutes. Oh, please don't. Do not disturb Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. Like it or not, he has the right to speak in this House, he has a number of votes. He listened to you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Let Mr. Seselj say if I'm right. I'm trying to give you my word. That's what solidarity is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1048	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with great care yesterday I patiently listened to the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic, and I studied him again last night. Unfortunately, I didn't get those other two parts because yesterday they told us we'd get a total of 240 pages. But what I have studied is enough for me to be able to say the basic opinion on the government's programme and policy, as Prime Minister Vukic imagined for the next term of office. Immensely reminded me of 1982 or 1983, when the regime then adopted a programme document called the Long-term Economic Stabilisation Programme of Yugoslavia. It was in four volumes, as much as my memory serves, about two thousand pages. What contained that document? I studied it as a young anti-Communist dissident and took it out of the matter to deal with the communist order. So I wasn't as close to the government as I am now, but from a distance. They've managed to look at almost all the problems. They were able to look into social needs. They planned to make everything they had imagined and that the country had honey and milk. One thing they've lost sight of, and that's the basic problem that created the current crisis, which is social property and socialist self-government. No one has dared, except for me personally, to strike at it. I listen to Prime Minister Vukic yesterday and I see that he is aware of almost all the problems of the Serbian society and, of course, of the desire to solve these problems, but his approach is not consistent and coherent. He, for example, does not determine the economic philosophy with which he performs, so we cannot draw a clear conclusion whether he is for neoliberalism, because he has elements of neoliberalist philosophy in his lab, whether it is for state interventionism, has these elements, whether it is for the social state, has these elements, and particularly has not resolved the question if it is for all of this, how to bring these three economic philosophies together and combine into one and to definitely respond to what social needs are. In economic philosophy, political economy is being drawn out. In the world, several are known, Mr Vujovic probably knows, the political economy system. They're based on theories about excess value, it's basically every political economy. The Marxist excess value was seen in production. That's why Communism failed. It has been shown that the excess value is not in production because you can do the most senseless work and that is why it is wrong to speak – work, work, work and just work. You're free of that work if you can't make the market real. They defeated those who believed that surplus values were being created on the market. The 20th century was a giant reckoning, two giants – Marks and Cannes. John Maynard Kanes fell on the shoulders of Carl Marks, and Communism fell on it. You should see how to get out of all this now. We saw for ourselves how much work can be in vain when peasants produce a lot of food, a lot of fruit, a lot of vegetables, we don't know what to do with it, and then it collapses, throws. At the same time, imports are most imported from the European Union and sold at fair prices, because the door to our border is at the heart of the European Union. I guess since we're no longer in favour of the theory that excess values are created in production rather than in the market, we must primarily protect our market. Now, about this protection of the Serbian market, unfortunately, I heard nothing in the exposé of Prime Minister Vukic. I wish I had. Of course, he did not look back on modern economic doctrines. There are also prominent scientists who have dealt with the problem of transition, more books have been published on the subject, Jovo Dusanić is one of the others who wrote about it, about the Russian transition experience, because Russia has experienced the most terrible transition. What must be acknowledged by Milosevic that he stopped that upside down transition after the fall of Ante Markovic, that he preserved industrial capacities and that when the Ottomans came, they destroyed everything, destroyed everything. And today it's all ruined. Very little exists compared to what existed. He's doing very little work compared to what he's been doing. When it comes to economic policy, it had to be based on a clear system and had to be complete. We here on the one hand see a list of good wishes, on the other hand, good intentions, on the third hand point to problems, but there is no comprehensive solution within the system. You see, in an economic policy that is highly developed as a science and differs significantly from political economy and economic philosophy, mind people have been developing paradigms. We also have in politics an attempt to create paradigms. Every ideology is related to a particular paradigm after all. What does that mean? They were developing an ideal pattern so that a project should be realized, an ideal form. He can never be fully flowed in reality, but he has to do as much as possible. It was there throughout history, through recent history and some problematic situations. For example, in China, when one paradigm was artificially created in one Chinese village chosen as a role model for all other villages. The village was called Tacaj. The basic parole was – learning from Tachaj. The periodical experience was a paradigm. What's our problem today? Which we have a similar paradigm. What's that paradigm? It is a factory called “Fiyatova” in Kragujevac, where it should put a parole – learn from Fiat. There are several other factories, I guess Velenje in Valjevo, in Pirote, and then there are South Korean "Jura", in Ralja, in Leskovec, and now this shoe factory in Vranje, etc. We have a paradigm that is evil, which is pointless, which is definitely ruining us. There's no economic policy. In a modern world that has succeeded in what has begun the Ottomans, and continues to be a progressive power. What's that? It's paying foreign factories of huge sums of money to open plants in our country and it's usually about 10,000 euros. "Fiat" 10,000, plus 1,000 for work training, including "Jura" received about 10,000 etc. Well, it's "Fiat", I've best studied the Fiat case, because in an illegal way, I got my hands on a complete contract, and as soon as I got my hands on it, I went straight to the press conference about a year and a half ago. The state has waived all taxes and contributes to wages. Then why does this factory work? Because this was necessary for the Ottomans in the pre-election campaign and these other factories that the advancers opened in the same form can only be a propaganda tool. I can't, Mr. Wolf, I've listened carefully to your elaborate, I've never spoken to you except when you were the first to make a joke, even if you were sweating or something else. So, I think it's a serious debate, that she needs to be approached seriously. And, the basic thing that needs to be reconsidered, that's this thing, which is better if we're already taking credit, the loan, we're additionally in debt, so we have this money for every employee of ten thousand, so give credit to those workers, so let them try something with it. Well, to give them a grant at the end of the day, not to bring strangers, to give them money. Here, "Fiat" recently announced leaving Serbia, it cannot succeed. You couldn't even sell the Fiat vehicles in Russia. Why didn't you? Because they told you right away that it wasn't a Serbian product. All parts for "Fiatova" vehicles are imported to Serbia, and when exported they are shown as Serbian exports. You have import here, you have export here, and you don't actually have anything. Only one piece is being installed in the "Fiat" produced in Serbia, it is some crane produced in a private factory in Svilinc, if memory serves, everything else is foreign. And, therefore, maybe Russia would allow, they don't give her partners there, because it's about foreign goods. Nothing made us happy, didn't do anything. We have artificial growth in import and export items. When we import parts for this Fiat, we jump into sudden imports. When I take out "Fiyat's" vehicles, our exports jump. This increases our trade balance with the EU, and in fact it's all fictitious. The solution we offer Serbian radicals must be radical as I have offered my time for the long-term economic stabilisation programme, but now different. Stopping insistence on joining the EU, it can't do us any good. It is our biggest exports to the EU today, but our EU imports are much larger. So, more damage than good. Every import is harmful, except for the goods we're not capable of producing. Every import is harmful, and each export is of course useful unless the goods are sold for the bagatel. There's a harmful export. We must take care of what the prime minister said, that from time to time a surplus appears in the budget, or that it already exists as a permanent category. To tell you the truth, I didn't understand what that meant, and it seems kind of amazing to me. We have foreign debt growth here, somewhere around 25 billion euros, we have a total gross debt, i.e. a gross social product 75% and here a budget surplus. Just as I can think of it, that it's a split budget observation for the state administration, for local self-government, for this, for what, so when what's greatest is lost and where it's spent and where the most collapses are isolated, then we have as healthy indicators. That's what they used to do to us at the rescue, of course I'm thinking about it, I'm not sure that it is, but I've been particularly troubled by the fact that there has been no law in Serbia since 2002 on the state's final account, the Republic. There's no final bill and I can't speak competently about the budget. I can listen to stories of people and authorities. Usually, we opposition don't trust anything with the new government. The suspension of customs duties on goods from the EU was catastrophic. Tadic's regime has abolished much more than we were obliged under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and there we have lost at least half a billion euros a year and perhaps a billion already. Where else do we lose? I've been making some notes here while the prime minister was talking, but I can't really use everything I thought, because somehow my time is running too fast. I get the impression it just runs so fast. We still have some things that are very difficult. We have agencies, 136 agencies, 170. Each government has announced their abolition in the last ten years. None of them fulfilled their promise, and they spend some of my data on about 700m euros annually. Is there any better information? Someone said a billion. We must finally define ourselves between the EU and Russia. We now have very serious geopolitical reasons. Russia and Turkey are strengthening relations, and America will be suppressed from the Balkans. If Trump wins, she won't even be interested in the Balkans. Let's bow down on time to definitely Russia, look for her embrace to preserve what we have now and recover what was ours. The others are gone. Now I have to cut back a little bit, and I won't be able to get there, and I'm talking about the mandater and the fight against crime, the question of the origin of the property, and I have my opinion in detail here, and I don't have time to announce it. There is no fight against crime until you arrest the top criminals in this country, including those who raided on October 5th with automatic rifles at the National Bank and the Federal Customs Administration and the Assembly that they burned, and so on. You have 24 privatisations established by Verica Barac, I am a political opponent of Verica Barac, the deceased, but she did a serious and excellent job. The regime gave her an order posthumously and forgot everything she brought out. There is no fight against crime and corruption until all 24 of these privatisations are gone. You have a case of the arrest of people suspected of killing Djindjic, Dusan Spasojevic and Milet Lukovic, who were killed by police generals on the orders of the regime, the leaders of the regime. Rodoljub Milojevic, General Paja and Spasoje Vulevic, he is still the commander of the CIA. What kind of crime fight? He's a C.I. Commander. What kind of fight against crime when Tomislav Nikolic and his criminal affairs are not raised? No one dares to tear down these three houses in the forbidden, protected Sava River Belt, it must have been Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1049	Twenty minutes, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1050	Under the right of administrative oversight, this must be the new Minister of State Administration and local self-government by law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1051	Time's up, buddy. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: And of course those fake diplomas of Tomislav Nikolic must finally... ) (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. A colleague named Lapčević, what is the basis for the replica? (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: You have shortened my time. You want to tell me what the replica is based on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1052	Based on the mention of the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1053	He didn't mention any MP groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1054	The Prime Minister just...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1055	Only if you've identified yourself when 24 privatisations were mentioned. The right to replica is sought immediately after the acquisition of the basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1056	Yes, yes, I asked, but Mrs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1057	The word has the term of office of Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to answer this, and I think I will try to make stronger arguments than Mr. Seselj made. I'm grateful again for what he listened to yesterday, but it's not true that he didn't throw it, it doesn't matter. That was sports, fair, and I don't have any problem with that. It is in the spirit of parliamentaryism and parliamentary debate. First of all, let's start with the government's programme and policy that you've been talking about and that we haven't set ourselves up for any of the three known directions, hence absolute state interventionism, neoliberal concept or social state, or so on. ‘the welfare states’ state of well-being. It is true, we have set ourselves up for a market economy and our policy in the economy is a policy of pragmatism and eclecticism. What does that mean? And that's what's being applied today in the modern economy and in the modern world. None of these three, there's a fourth classic economic theory in its pure sense. What does eclecticism mean? It is usually a philosophical direction that does not hold up to any rigid paradigm and that is exactly what the Republic of Serbia is holding and that is the only possible in today's conditions. Today, economies are divided in modern Europe and the modern world into open economies and economies that want to close both politically and in one part of the economy, and you see the division of Europe and the countries on one side of Germany and its closest allies, and on the other hand you have Hungary, mainly the countries of multi-city groups that have different political interests. Exactly one thing where the market determines the value, I think we're used to. I now answer your second question about the protection of the Serbian market, because I respect your concern and that sounds good when citizens listen, but we are taking part in a wider market, in a regional market that we would like to be even more open, because if you're talking about the deficit or surplus that we have in trade exchange, we have the largest surplus right now in the region, we are exporting, or the largest proportion to our exports and imports precisely in our relationship with Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have a surplus in exchange with individual EU countries, and above all because their factories, their companies work in Serbia and export these goods to those countries. We can't protect our market not only because of what you said, which some previous regime has made certain commitments, we'd come out of all the rules, we'd close our economy, we'd turn it into a utarchi and it couldn't be self-sufficient. You say, everywhere we have too much difference, too much deficit, we managed to reduce the deficit three years ago, in 2013, we covered exports with 58.9% with EU countries. Today at EU level 28, we're covering it with 77.8. So we dramatically increased our exports and, above all, thanks to the arrival of companies from those countries. Today, in an uncomparably better, we have reduced therefore trade imbalances, trade deficits, reduced pay deficits, and we have fewer problems on this issue in relations with the EU because we have fallen into EU economies somewhere. That is why we have, we export 85% of our goods to the region and EU market. Of course there's been a lot of recklessness and particularly poorly negotiated SAA in the agriculture area, but what to do, as a state you have to respect the agreements your predecessors signed and initialled. I didn't know before because you told me that some others did it, that's another Kostunica government paraphrasing. So, there's been a fight over who's gonna put it on, but they're paraphrasing, let me tell you that too. So we had to answer that, I think, with the only possible economic policy. I'm grateful that you've seen the effort, but what we've brought out, we've fought to find some other mechanisms and some other ways, they're gone. To find pure political-economic consistency, or one approach, is impossible. It's been a while. It's been 35-40 years, you won't find it, especially for small businesses and small countries like ours. The only possible approach is pragmatism and eclecticism and that's ours. We have no rigid theories that we stick to, which could be in a legal, economic, theoretical sense to be completely consistent and coherent. So this is what really is the only possible approach and I'm saying it. You're right about some of the things you're talking about. I could talk about some things more harshly than you, because I read these contracts better, and I know how much money we need to set aside and keep quiet, because I'm not going to hurt Serbia, because I'm not going to do any harm to employees in certain places, because I want to fight to keep these factories in Serbia. You're absolutely right, but you're wrong when you talk about numbers. It's not a tax and a contribution problem. We can give a cab to Hollywood for ten years. It wouldn't be a problem for us if they held so many employees if they increased investment, etc. There are other problems. Our investments are much, much bigger than that, much bigger than taxes, contributions, much bigger than 10,000 euros. As far as 10,000 euros are concerned, only three factories have given 10,000 euros of subsidies per job. We've given in either one or one. In all other cases, it was before. But now I'm telling you, I've analyzed this case "Jure", it's so-called "Jure." lab intense, they take, they're low wages, a large number of workers, etc. We have already charged more than three times what We have given them. It's worth it. Thank you for coming to Serbia. I ask them to stay in Serbia. I'll deliver the clean numbers to you personally, so it's worth it. Did we have an alternative? We didn't even have an offer from domestic businessmen to do the same. They have a market for their goods, a safe market and they want to hire more people here, as Leoni will, the new two factories will now, one in Nis, one again whether in Doljevac, Meroshini or Prokuplje, we will see. Are the salaries low? They did. But they've already returned to us as a state through taxes and contributions and through everything else that they've done to them a great deal, what the state has given them. This is what we are talking about now with Cromber Shubert, who will employ an initial 2,500 people in Kruševec, then go to Jagodin, Kraljev or Leskovac to hire 1,500 more people. It's always coming back to us. That's positive for us, and we'll give you all the elaborates so you can see that's a clean win for us. Why can't we do it without it? To make people understand that, working in small and medium-sized enterprises, private companies. We can't do it without it. The competition will take everything away from us. They'll take Bulgaria, Macedonia and Romania from us. "Continental" employs 12,000 people, as one of the two most powerful components of Germany, the pride of the German industry, to employ 12,000 people in Romania. I kneel on my knees every week, begging them to increase their numbers. Now I was the happiest when I was told that for the new 400 people, they would increase the number of employees. The same is true of others. They all offer much more, Macedonians. We're not looking forward to it, but we've now attracted a larger number since there's some kind of vacuum of political, insecurity, etc. The investor, because their minister had the authority and the right to agree on what he wanted and what he wanted with foreign investors. We can't do that. We stick to the law and regulations. We can't compete with them. When he sees that the investor has come to Serbia, then gone to Romania, then came to Macedonia, he offers him always 10% more than we have offered, and we lose him and we lose him both in the employment of the workforce and in the tax and contributions the state makes afterwards and we have none of that and we strengthen our competition directly, because auto-components are following auto-components. "Teklas" when he comes, now comes this "Josur", "Jesur", as it is called, goes to Žitoraj with 160 to 180 employees. He wouldn't be with us if Teklas had ended up in Macedonia. We took him away from Macedonia. That's why Vladic's Han can live. Vlad's Han, Mr. Seselj, couldn't live, as you know, because they destroyed everything. Five factories lined up that they destroyed, destroyed and shut down, five after each other, like a factory cemetery. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Who? Those with whom you went to the election, and others. So, as for "Fiita" and Russia, they'll approve us, come Medvedev here in October and we'll get permission to export "Fiita" to Russia. That's not their reason, there's other reasons. There's politics and everything else, so I don't talk about it. We still haven't been able to provide for our reasons of exporting milk and certain types of cheese. I believe before the president of the Russian government arrives, we will be able to finish. We still have products for the Fiat that are produced here. We have glass lifts in Sremska Mitrovica. We have about 3,000 people working as suppliers for Fiat. It's a very positive thing. I fought recently when I went to Italy, I fought and I prayed "Alta Fae" to keep working. There are also some positive things I can't talk about publicly because those people don't want to talk about it publicly. I have to stick to the words I gave them. But I believe we'll manage to push it out, because it's important for the Kragujevac, because it's important for the Kragujevac workers, but it's important for all of us. It's true that our difference isn't great, that our net exports aren't big. That's why I don't understand when they make us tables on our televisions, when they tell us about gross exports, and they never make us a table of net exports. What is it that we get from equipment and components from Serbia, and what is it that we get from abroad? That would be a real table. What will you do when no one in Serbia knows and no one cares. As for surpluses and public debt, I'll tell you that. Namely, since I listened to all kinds of stories and all kinds of untrue people, we had in August, when Dinkic had to take it in 2012, had to take it, because everything was completely empty, there would be no pensions and salaries paid already in September, all in pure zero, the liquidity of the non-existent, the cash fleet did not exist, he had to take three billion. That was 56% of the public debt. Today it's at 71.9, or after these credit arrangements we had to cover our guarantees, 72.4%. We're planning on having it somewhere at the moment at 77%, by the end of the year at 79%. It's better than we expected. That's what I've been talking about for two years. It's better just because of the surplus we have in our budget today. What does the surplus mean in the Republic of Serbia's budget? In simplest language, our revenue side in the budget, and because of citizens, is bigger than the expenditure side. We've gained more than we've spent, both on wages and pensions. Most of all, he goes on pensions, convincingly, then on public sector salaries, then on goods and services and, of course, interest. We have already paid around 780m euros this year, and with what we paid for interest and annuities, we have paid around 780m euros so far, and with what we paid this year, we are in plus. Our future side is bigger. Our incomes are better, and VAT collection and excise charge and payment from public enterprises, dividends, collection of all types of taxes and taxes on profits are higher than last year. So all those numbers are going well. The expenditures are also slightly lower by 3.1%, Vujovicu, if I am not mistaken, than what was planned. 3.1% of the expenditures are lower. That's why we have a surplus. That takes huge discipline, huge responsibility, really huge discipline and responsibility. I'll remind you of the time we were part of the government in 1998-1999. You remember everyone had to, which was the case with these by 2010, in 2011, so we had to know someone in the vault. My orders for three, four months stand in the vault, they can't be paid because there's no liquidity, because there's no cash in the fleet. There are no problems like this today. Cash flow is perfect. We've got everything. One day a warrant arrives, and the same day, money is paid from the Treasury. Why are these good things? What does that say about public debt? This means that if our GDP and GDP rises in the first six months of 2.6%, if it continues to grow in such a way, we have the freedom to, since our GDP is around 35 billion and GDP means the total value of the assets that we create on an annual basis. When we grow by 2.6%, when you divide it, it's about 800 million, 750-800 million, we can take, we can take in debt on the financial market 750, 800 million, public debt relative to GDP won't grow. So it's important that we have GDP growth, growth in the economy, and we don't have a significant deficit at the same time, because that's why we're stopping public debt growth as we've already done and it's starting to fall. Our goal is to keep it down for the next two or three years, to be below 70% by 2023, to keep it on the level if I'm right, correct me, Vujovic, below 60%, because below 60% is Mastricht, we no longer have any problems and we can only think about how to further improve our economy. We do it together for the IMF and the World Bank. We'll deliver you a final bill every year and every one of our rebalances will be a de facto account by that part of the year when we have it because every penny controls the IMF, we can't spend a dinar without the IMF. You know exactly where he is and what he is. So now I'm telling you that when we want the Post Office to finance a part of our dedicated industry. How much do we break a spear? We've been breaking a spear for three months because we want to give an additional financial injection into our dedicated, military industry. We know we're gonna cover it, especially since SDPR has money for it. It's a safe placement from the Post Office. A business bank can't do that unless the IMF approves. So our finances are under absolute control. There's no concern about it, but it doesn't allow us freedom so we can spend more money. I'm happy it's so today, and I'm happy it's going to last for about a year or so. After that, we're free to do whatever we want, but I'd like someone who comes after me to be equally disciplined and in this way takes care of it. Otherwise, since I was Prime Minister, the public debt was 71% of GDP, today 72.4 with these guarantees being taken over. Of course, someone will say date, not date by date, but year by year. It's the one who made the budget up front. I don't want to be Prime Minister tomorrow, run over by a car in front of me, anything to happen to me, it's not your fault or someone from here who's gonna have to be in debt the day after tomorrow because there's no liquidity in the budget. When you go through geometric progression, your public debt increases, when you have obligations as a state you cannot fulfill. They increased salaries and pensions without any economic growth. We, people, have a minus 3.6 GDP growth, and we increase wages and pensions. That's what people in Serbia need to know, it never happened. Minus 3.6. It's a historical minus. We increase wages and pensions and what do you expect, then what do you expect, but a complete disaster. The complete failure of the system, the complete failure of the system, the complete failure of everything because they promised someone that they needed to see that the coalitions they were making bring results. It's scandalous, and someone had to fix it, and that's why I didn't say in the campaign we're going to increase this, we're going to increase that. Today we can increase we won't feel it. I don't give. I'm not giving up because I want to boast discipline and I want to make it permanent. The IMF recognises the increase in VAT revenues as permanent. He doesn't recognize us those of payment, he admits to increasing VAT and admits our excise duties to the greatest part. Isn't that right, Vujovic? They recognize that as a permanent increase on the revenue side. They still don't fully acknowledge a permanent cost reduction. We still have to fight to prove it, but that means we've managed to make a good deal of it. About 24 privatisations. I did it myself, and I'm proud of the result of what we've been doing here. Of course, our part as executive authority is very limited, as you know. You can according to the PO you get, it's a request to collect information, the D.A.'s police to see what the police were doing as part of the executive government. The police have done everything in 24 cases. The man we replaced worked very well on the matter, and Milovic, and Pusic. I would lie if I said they didn't work well, both Veljovic and many others. Indeed, the police have done all they need to do on this matter. I think those eight cases, of which 24, have been sued, i.e. indictments and indictments. Some six have been told there is no crime. So when the D.A. asked for PO, that's how they responded. There's still no D.A.'s decision on these others. So, as far as the police are concerned, and as far as the investigative sense is concerned, it's literally all done, without protecting anyone. Here you have one of Miskovic's objects. It's "Del Real" where the police said there was no crime. That's what the D.A. said. So there's just stuff. You can't force someone, because we're fighting for the judiciary to be independent, the prosecution on its own, but we've devoted ourselves and worked hard and hard, believe me, we've worked day and night. No matter how much you think of me, you know I'm not even lazy, but you know that when I say that we did something day and night that we did it that way. I wanted to show the people that not those who have acquired great wealth and only because they have acquired this wealth can rule Serbia and determine what is right and what is justice. Law and justice are equal for everyone in this country, and that's how we'll always behave. One more thing. You see, they've convinced me for two years. I've been silent for two years and I've been listening to everyone on my side -- see, if Percevic doesn't get to pay his salary, tell a bank to give 10-20 million, if Miskovic doesn't get here to pay that and that salary, tell a bank. That's what these guys used to do before that. So they ended up, a little bit of them, a little over there, a little over there, that you have from Agrobank, which you can look at and see. I've been keeping quiet, keeping quiet, listening, telling people nonsense, no, no, it's going to be a waste of our economy, it's big systems. Here's how we got rid of it, our economy started to grow. Since they no longer determine anything in all of this and that nothing depends on how many banks will recalibrate, and how many politicians will pay, our economy has started to grow because we are becoming a normal country. As far as politics is concerned, I understand your attacks on Tomislav Nikolic. You're preparing for the presidential election. I think Tomislav Nikolic has done his job as president of the Republic well, and as far as the policy in which we should leave a completely European path and go into the arms of only one force, I understand that it is your policy, and you get votes. I don't think I love Russia less than you do, but I don't think I give myself the right to love her anymore, that the policy we're running is the only possible, the only rational, the only real. If we did that, just tell me -- what do we do with "Bosa" the next day, what do we do with "Continental" and "Symens" and what do we do with "What" in Vrsac, what do we do with all these companies? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: They will wait and work for Russia. They'll all be waiting to work for Russia. Not one, believe me, because they have sanctions and very bad relationships today, and we have a chance just because of this policy. What "Continental" in Serbia produces, what "Simens" produces, a wind generator in Serbia, is a Serbian wind generator, says "Simens" made in Serbia. And this is what workers in Serbia and here pay workers in Serbia. One more thing, we can, without customs, export our goods to the market of nearly a billion, out of nearly 500 million EU plus the region, plus Russia and five other countries that are with it in the Euro-Asian Union. We have the biggest benefit from the policy we're dealing with. Why should we cut our own legs? Why are we cutting the market short? Why can't we export our products somewhere where we can do it? Why deny ourselves the import that we today are incomparably cheaper. Secondly, as for pig meat and any other kind of meat, it comes from the EU, but it comes from other parts. In other words, we have more imbalances with Russia than with Germany, especially last year and before last year when they had a problem with the laundry, when we couldn't carry anything out. Not every import is harmful, and from where to import gas, it's from Russia. We can only import it from Russia. Everything else we've been listening to is empty stories. They were talking to me. Get him in from Azerbaijan. Get him out of here. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: At what price shall we pay him? When we integrate with Russia, we'll pay at the price... I like to discuss with you and I don't mind. I don't mind when you throw and I'm glad... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I am disabled. You've been responding to my 20 minutes for 25 minutes. You're not handicapped. Today we have Mr. Seselj, the best price possible with the Russian Federation, $118 we download to Berig's gas, $118 enables us to operate the MSK and the Azotar. We've got a break alive somewhere at 210, 220 dollars. We're taking 118 today on Berig. What's our problem and what we're trying to do with the president of the Russian government is sign long-term gas contracts. They of course hope to increase the price of gas on the world market, it is understandable that they will not make a 10-year contract. We'd sign not today at 110, not 118, today we'd sign at 180 at a ten-year level, just so we could figure out what the price of gas is. We have a good price for gas. Today we have a good, never-better one, and we had, don't forget, three, four years ago, $420 per 1,000 cubic meters. I said this because other people are telling us to make interconnectors, we're gonna make interconnectors, but there's no gas. That's why you have to import, and that's why we've always had the easiest time with Russian gas. That's why I think everything we've been talking about has been done in a serious way and it wasn't a list of good wishes, it was an offer of answers. It won't be ideal, there'll be trouble, there'll be bounces, there'll be pain, there'll never be milk and milk running anywhere. It's not milk and milk flowing in Germany, not in the United States, not in many developed countries, but it's ours. Is things going better? Yeah, I'm sure they're doing better and I'm sure they will be and we'll have the strength to make things go even better than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1059	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1060	Mr. Wolfie spoke for 26 minutes. It doesn't matter. I'll be done in two minutes. First of all, Mr. Vukic, you're pushing for even greater co-operation with civil society and you're throwing state money away as a government. The largest number of civil society organisations is Fifth Column. The previous governments took over their funding from foreign agents that had previously created and funded them. You finance RTS, which is also a foreign agent, is working against Serbia. Furthermore, the government's cultural policy, at least so far, has been a failure. You are giving huge money to the "Exit" and the government of Serbia and the government of Vojvodina and the government of Novi Sad. The Serbian mother cannot print her yearbook, the oldest Serbian literary magazine. The Serbian Literature Association, the oldest Serbian publisher and a whole series of other cultural institutions without which it cannot be helped. I think without the "Exit" you can do without that drug that comes in tones. I am not the one to ban "Exit" but to see how much money for real culture and cultural values, and how much for this white world nonsense. Next, you're pushing for a re-examine of the origin of the property, okay, but at the same time you're returning property that was taken away from former tycoons 50 or 60 years ago. Were those old tycoons more honest than these today? All the tycoons are the same. Nobody made the first million dollars in a fair way, so don't play with it. He is now taken from the poor to return to the descendants, the great-grandsons of the former.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1061	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1062	One more thing, a short one. We banned public enterprises from making any donations on my initiative in the Serbian government in 1999 or 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1063	I thank my colleague Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why don't you abolish this right in public enterprises? A fellow Seselj, two minutes and 30 seconds, I was as tolerated as I could. Thank you. The word has a mandater, Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1064	Let me tell you something, there's no need to yell. He knows a gentleman... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There is no need when my electricity has been cut off. He knows Mr. Seselj has no right. Secondly, you know very well that I am not afraid of you at all. Maybe someone's afraid of you somewhere. I'm not afraid of you at all. And that and how well you know. We spent 15 years together. Don't even yell, don't threaten me. Unlike some on Twitter and here and there, you know I'm not afraid of anything. As far as the rules are concerned, business rules exist, and as you can see I have no problem, this discussion is very good for me, especially if it's reasoned and serious. I don't have a problem. You're wrong again, Mr. Seselj, there's something you're not into. You're right when you talk about public enterprises. It's dramatically reduced. Ten times the rate. What remains as a problem for us, and not all public enterprises, because Telecom is not a public enterprise for you, but anyway, I understood what you mean, where the state has majority capital, even if it's a stock company or anything else. So, it's true, we give money from there as a state primarily to sports clubs and our team. We gave for the basketball team both. We gave for almost all our national teams, we gave for the Red Star and the Partizan. And if you ask me if it's a mistake? It's my fault. It's a mistake we gave for Red Star and Partizan. I don't have the strength to say no, because everyone's going to tell me -- there are 70 years, they're very successful, here you are, the ones who turned them off. You know I'm not doing it because I'm investing in any of them, because I don't care what they yell at me. I'm not touched at all by those who say things like that. I'm not worried at all. But I just don't have the strength. And you're right about that. You're wrong about this second one. As far as civil society is concerned, the smaller part is, except I disagree with those terms. But I think it's amazing that projects are being obtained and that commissions are being set up to be political commissioners in the right sense of words, which primarily make programmes against the state. And if they don't just happen to get money from that same country, then the state is to blame for everything. And even if they get the money the state is guilty of everything. And that is our problem. And it was done more by the City of Belgrade than by the state of Serbia, but also by the state of Serbia. Should we keep our co-operation with civil society? Yes, you should. Thanks to our cooperation with civil society, some important things, and in approach negotiations and in screenings, we did, we did, we did, we did, and that's why I don't want to justify myself to anyone, and I'm proud of that, and we've learned a lot from these people. We also co-operated with the NGO sector that belonged to Ana Brnabić and I learned countless things from her. Ana is today a member of the Serbian government and I am proud to be a member of the Serbian government. And I'm not sorry that we helped their work in different ways. We've really learned a lot from them, and we've managed to move the country from 91 to 59. And we've been guarding the country all this time, so I'm not going to let anyone be a bigger Serb, or more patriot, or love Russia, or love anyone else in the world anymore. Because we kept her safe and protected her in the best possible way. Because we have kept our tradition, cared for our people in every place, done our best to preserve its identity, wherever our people live and do it under very difficult conditions and circumstances. And I know you know that, too, and I know you respect that, too. I know what politics is, it's not a problem. But it's not the solution to cut off one leg or both legs and say so – so we're going forward. That way we can't run much faster than we do today. I know that this policy is the only possible thing at this point, the only one that brings prosperity to Serbia, and if people think in Serbia that simple solutions or solutions that are completely consistent, which are not going towards eclecticism, which is the only possible for our small country and not only in economic, but also in the legal and philosophical sense, the political sense, then let someone else rule. Let someone else rule. It's closer to the heart of the people you're talking about. What I'm saying is only reasonable. I know why it's closer to the heart. I know very well. It may not be the best thing to do, but I know exactly what the state is, and I know exactly what the state is, and when it comes to paying off pensions, they pay off, and I know when it comes to measuring your GDP growth, what your surplus is, what your deficit is. That's what I'm worried about. That's what I have to worry about. Every morning it comes to my desk over than anything. That's how the state protects, protects and defends itself, and you know how much I love the state, and you know that I put the state above all else, and you know that I also know that I know and respect your attitude towards the state, even if I don't agree with that policy, which I don't respect with some. That's why I was showing that kind of respect, not saying it in a way where I would want to defeat someone or someone to make fun of or make any kind of cynical or sarcastic comment. Serbia is on its way. It faces many challenges, many difficult challenges, many difficult political challenges. They can disrupt our economic path. It is ours to be as unique as possible, to push forward things and to see that we can boast that we are one of the first three or four countries of economic growth in Europe, this year we will be in the first three, four or five, and next year we will try to be first, but we need such 10, 15, or 20 years to be able to arrive in serious countries. I believe in this generation of Serbs and Serbian citizens that they will be able to do so. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1065	Right on the line, Vojislav Seselj. Two minutes takes a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1066	It is very incorrect for you to explain my critical performances against Tomislav Nikolic my candidacy for the new president of the Republic. You take the legal measures you are obliged to do with Tomislav Nikolic, and I will withdraw the candidacy for the President of the Republic. I don't care much about that, but I care about the rule of law, justice here in this country, and that can't be done until the President of the Republic is processed. You know, Mr. Wolfie, 10 years ago, he didn't have a dog to bite him for and now he's got a huge fortune. You are witness to his sudden material rise, the tycoon rise. It has recently been admitted that his wife's foundation of Dragica had about 10m euros in account and spent so much. No newspaper has received data as far as it really went through that account, and it's been established that it's at least twice as much as that. The whole of Serbia knows he has a fake college degree. You're not gonna pretend like you don't know he's got a fake degree. You're not going to tell me, Mr. Wolfie - he's graduated in a fair way. Did he take one of his exams? If you tell me it is, I am resigning as MP. Did he take one test during the study?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1068	First of all, Mrs. Nikolic's foundation. It is mostly funded by donations from different companies, funded sometimes by our friends on the outside, and that money has been spent on maternity care, spent on hospitals and on many other things. I'm not a cashier, and I can't show you every penny, but if you have any doubt, tell us that it's spent differently. I've only seen a lot of mothers, a lot of kids looking forward to what she's done even though it's the easiest thing to underestimate and criticize, and it's the easiest subject, and I don't mind, so we'll have no problem checking every penny where it is and how it went and I'm sure it's, I'm sure it's all done in a completely clean way. As far as the presidential election is concerned, you will run for office, Mr. Seselj, just the way I won't, and we both know it. So I know you as well as you know me. Mr. Seselj, you know, unlike others, I'm every day, not by chance in management, every day I spent 15 years with Mr. Seselj and I know him well and I know when he's serious and when he's not. So the fact that he said he wasn't going to run, hang the cat on the tail. They're gonna run for office anyway. Like I said, I'm not running. Thank you very much and happy work. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1069	Mr. Lapchev, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1070	Based on the mention of the parliamentary group in the current exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1071	He didn't mention you. A colleague, Lapčević, was mentioned by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who signed the SAA and who argued. That means if some MP or mandated person mentions the name Boris Tadic, I don't know who's going to answer, whether SDS or DS. So, Mr. Kostunica is no longer the current president of the DSS, and please, you have no right to a replica. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1072	Article 104(2) - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of a parliamentary group or his deputy shall have a right to replication on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, there have been offensive expressions and I have the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1073	Comrade Lapčević, I draw your attention that there is not a single mention of the DSS in the presentation of the mandate. You're not as an MP, not in any other way. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has been mentioned, and he is no longer a member of the DSS. So you don't have a basis for replication. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic. [[Milan Lapcevic, from the place: What's the problem with getting a replica?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1074	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr. candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, has repeatedly offended the opposition's MPs, thus showing that he either does not understand the principle of the division of power or, worse still, does not want to accept it. It does not accept the supremacy of parliament and does not accept the fact that this is the highest legislative home in this country. The MPs were offended by the fact that only 24 hours earlier this session was scheduled. They are also offended by the fact that the material for this session, the exposés in writing, arrived at the moment when the session had already begun. After MPs of the opposition, having no other means, showed their revolution and left the hall, the prime minister continued to insult the character of the opposition's MPs as sloths, as people who came to take their diaries and leave, as people who squirm and salvahs, the insult continued to humiliate this home and all the citizens who voted for the opposition's MPs. The mandate is well aware that the journals in this house have not existed since 2009. The mandate knows very well that in the ranks of opposition MPs there are professors, lawyers, doctors, people who are proven in their professions and, unlike him, have a basis in the profession and have a career past their political career. Mr. Vucicou, Paul said that all political careers end in failure. The MPs you insulted and you characterized as sloths when they end their political career at least have a place to fall, unlike you. I wouldn't even comment on the scratching and other banal qualifications, but I'll do it because that qualification is the result of a year's dirty campaign against me personally, where Mr. Vukevic invented that I was at a hotel in Briony, so I sued him and got him first degree satisfaction over such a lie, and I'll get in the second degree. Why is waiting three and a half months unacceptable for the formation of a government? First, because this waiting damages investors, because no investor will come into the country unless he knows who his talker is, who will be the minister of the economy with which he will communicate. Farmers can't plan anything in agriculture because they don't know what agrarian politics will be. Scientific workers, who have been denied competitions, and there are about 11,000, who have competed in various government funds, are in complete uncertainty because the government has not yet been established. It is a lack of argument that Kostunica was waiting for the last day to form a government. I don't want to be a lawyer for Vojislav Kostunica, but that government was a coalition government and no list had an absolute majority and these are simply not circumstances that can be compared to the circumstances in which you have an absolute majority and the possibility of forming that government within a very short period of time. However, since you haven't done so in so long, I expected that the qualification structure of that government would be far superior than the qualification structure of the previous government. It turns out that today we have three Ministers of Science less, one Minister of Science less, and it turns out that although you use kleticism on several occasions, and eclecticos is a Greek word that means choosing the best, you did not apply that principle in choosing candidates for ministers, and you do not apply that principle in political life either, because you take a liberal stance, especially when it comes to economics. You were saying that you inherited a Sunflower and recession in 2014. I must remind both you and the public that you have been in power a lot in 2014 and that you have been in power for five years, that a time has passed in which you can call, in which it is appropriate and appropriate to refer to the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic as responsible for anything that is happening in Serbia today, because the Democratic Party has been in power for five years, before that was the opposition to Vojislav Kostunica and of that four years has been in power in a coalition with the SPS, one year in a coalition with the DSS. You are the fifth year in power today, and when you talk about sunflower and recession in 2014, you talk about what you inherited from yourself. You mentioned election day. I think it is important to talk about it in this house, not when it comes to this point, and I don't think you should have mentioned this topic on election day, but the big question is how many "Bulgarian train" have brought votes to the ruling coalition and how many parliaments in this assembly have any legitimacy at all. We've been thinking about not participating in Parliament's work, not giving legitimacy to electoral theft, but that in this society, with such fragile institutions, with the practical absence of freedom of the media, would mean only the inability for the opposition to be even visible to the media to fully ignore the existence of the opposition. I was touched by something you mentioned when you said you'd concentrate on the lives of the citizens. I think it is an executive task, however, your governments have failed in previous periods when it comes to the issue. The consumer basket in May 2012, just to remind me, cost 57,920 dinars. The consumer basket costs 67,117 dinars in May 2016. So it's almost 10,000 dinars over. So much for the standard of Serbian citizens. In doing so, salaries and pensions have been reduced by a large number of citizens and in this sense their standard has been dramatically reduced. According to Eurostat, therefore, not according to the opposition or media thesis, but according to the European Statistics Agency, purchasing power in the countries of the region, when it comes to European average, looks like this. In Croatia, it is 59% of the European average, 39% of the European average in Montenegro, 36% of the European average in Macedonia, and only 35% of the European average in Serbia. So we look in the back of both Macedonia and Montenegro. I would like your thesis to be true that we, at the level of development at the rate of development, are catching up with the most developed European countries, but unfortunately European institutions are completely denying you. When we talk about the lives of citizens, there is a mention of pigmeat that raised 30% in July and chickenmeat, which increased 25% in July. You were talking about imports into the EU from China, that is, exports, pardon, China. However, it would be simple if it were the only answer to this problem. Unfortunately, the pig fund has been reduced since 2011 practically by two million. Of the 3.9 million pigs that were in this country in 2011, we've now burned to only two million. (Alexander Vukic, from place: Three million and 850. Two million gets slaughtered, Mr. Pittice. Two million, according to the data I have. This is the data I have. In any case, politics towards agrarian is completely wrong. Why is it wrong and why is the stock fund reduced? Why is there an increase in pig prices? Because only in January of this year, so it was only 1 January that the Regulation on the prevention of imports of non-quality meat into Serbia was adopted. Therefore, it was not until January 2016. The door was wide open for imports of non-quality meat, which has led to the fact that pig producers are fully discouraged and that the situation in the agrarian today is as it is. The Serbian government is the only government that has done nothing to solve the problem of the Swiss francs in charge. Both Montenegrins and Croats and Hungarians did. That's what everyone in the region did, only we don't have any conversions or any other recipe for people in charge of Swiss francs to be delivered from debt slavery. Salaries and pensions have been cut. While we can argue about it and discuss whether there has been an opportunised wage reduction, it is not a "lege artis" pension reduction. So it's not according to the Constitution to cut pensions, because pensions are property, acquired property, something you can't take away. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if you endanger property, you must provide adequate compensation, and that has not been done to pensioners. No negotiations with the Constitution, no interpretations of the Constitution, the constitution is unequivocal. While we can discuss whether the salaries should be reduced or not, we don't need it to be done, you can't cut pensions. Even if you held a referendum among the pensioners, that 100% of the pensioners in this country said – we want you to cut our pensions, this is the highest legislative act in this country that does not allow you. The highest legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow you to touch someone's property, someone's acquired right. When we talk about wage cuts, and there's a call to the IMF completely wrongly addressed. Talk to Ljilja Lucic and other people who during the government of Zoran Djindjic, as I see that you are allergic to the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, negotiated with the IMF, never asked them from the IMF to cut salaries. It's requested, and you're right, to cut expenses, to increase revenues. So, to reduce the budget deficit, to increase the surplus, but not by making fiscal consolidation work on the burden of citizens. It's not an IMF request, it's a government commitment. More than a billion euros were given to subsidies for enterprises that were not successful. It is given 10, 15 and more thousand euros to foreign investors for one job, while domestically not supported, and savings from wage cuts and pensions are only around 370m euros. So, there's from where, there's nowhere to be saved and there's no pensioners, doctors, teachers, nurses, soldiers, cops to start with. I remind you that in 2014 you promised to eliminate losses in public enterprises and end privatisation, and yesterday you were proud of growth, although there were no privatisations and these statements were contradictory, obviously neither were losses eliminated nor were privatisation completed. The most difficult ones from your 2014 exposé are simply not to the greatest extent fulfilled, nor have they begun to be fulfilled. When you talk about a decrease in public debt, or the need to reduce it, I fully agree. That's responsible thinking. But you criticised Mirko Cvetkovic's government for increasing public debt from 8.78 billion to 15.4 billion. What have you done for these four years? You increased that debt from 15.4 to 26.3 billion and led to about 74.5% of GDP, you just said it was 72%, let alone 72% of GDP, Serbia is in charge today. In doing so, repeating the tendency to take new loans to replace the old unfavorable. That offends intelligence. If you take loans to replace the old ones, then you do not increase debt, the interest rate changes, but the debt remains the same and in that sense that type of excuse is not acceptable. So, don't criticize someone for what you're doing twice as fast as anyone before you, 68 euros per second you're in debt, and two million euros in debt to Serbia during your exposé. As far as foreign investment is concerned, the goal is three billion dollars and that is a legitimate goal and God forbid that this goal is realized. We are the opposition to the government, we have never been, nor will we ever be an opposition to Serbia and we cheer for that dream of yours to come true. However, the data we have available again say that foreign investments in the period from 2013 to 2015 were only 1.7 billion euros and were 2.2 billion euros in the period from 2008 to 2012. So the lower level of foreign investment today than it was in previous periods. And that wasn't enough. Even 2.2 billion, to be clear, weren't enough, but obviously we fell even when it comes to foreign investment. Dual education can mean, to a certain extent, a qualitative shift forward, but I also mention the possibility and need to establish an educational centre, one of these exists in Novi Sad, was founded in collaboration with the Austrian government, where those who have completed education are overqualified and thousands of people are in a position to achieve a working relationship. With dual education, you will have another problem with the number of companies that will be able to employ young people, where this dual education can be partially realised. I hope it doesn't look like what we faced when we had so-called high school practice where she really didn't serve anything. I was surprised, I must admit, when I saw that agriculture was dedicated to a very small space, so only two pages. You yourself noted in the exposé that around 10% of GDP was realised from agriculture. I don't think that space is enough when it comes to the number of characters, or when it comes to the ideas that we find on those two pages. It's a bad law on agricultural land. And you're right when you say there was no alienation under that agricultural land law, but there was something very similar to the estrangement of the long-term lease, where foreign investors under more favourable conditions realised the lease of agricultural land, and in addition to the many stories that would invest tens and hundreds of millions of euros in the development of agrarians did absolutely nothing happen, this good example is Al Rawafed, therefore, land in Karajordev, a greyery, thousands of acres that were thus leased. When you give something into the law for 30 years, it's almost equivalent, privatisation, or sale. The subsidy policy has only led to ten times more subsidies in Croatia today than in Serbia. Agriculture is a low-accumulated branch and we cannot allow subsidies per hectare in Serbia to be 4,000 dinars, and in Croatia 350 euros, therefore, 40,000 dinars. Our farmer can't be competitive under these circumstances and it's a big mistake. In general, the policies in the agrarian region were conducted in an extremely bad way. An example is that you have 32-38m euros in IPARD funds, according to your 2014 exposure to farmers. It is true, the IPARD is also intended for the purchase of equipment and for the purchase of machinery, for improving the position of farmers, but also your administration was unable to use, or a gift to receive. So, back in 2012, you had the Agrarian Payments Authority in Sapac, certified, with people who were employed, who had appropriate certificates, with software. The Agrarian Payments Administration has been moved and Serbia is completely prevented from receiving almost 40m euros per year for farmers. You promised 2014 and restructuring large systems such as EPS, "Srbigas", Railways, none of this happened. You promised 2014 professionalization in the management of public enterprises, and we have v.d. in "Serbian Roads", "Serbian State", airport, ski resorts, "Transnafti", "Emission Technicals and Relationships", Luttrija, "Resavici", "Nuklear Objects", "The Official Messenger", "Yugoimport", Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, etc. So we've never had a more temporary condition. From professionalization we came to the fact that the CEO of EPS was someone who had experience as the owner of the roaster, in RTB "Bor" still Mr. Spaskovski, in "Srbigas" Mr. Bayatovic, in "Smederevo Irons", which is not a public company, but has a state stake, we heard promises that by the end of 2015, losses will be covered, that another high furnace will be launched, that there will be realised profit from all of this. Of all the high-ranking professionals who have been brought abroad, we have a scandal where Mr. Kamaras has employed his relatives' management, where 144 million losses, 39% more than a year before, where fictitious contracts have been concluded, where Hestil bought the property of the Smederjev ironworks, and all those debts that remained of those great solutions have passed on to the coat of arms of the Serbian taxpayers. You're also talking in this exposé about fighting corruption. We support the fight against corruption, but there is one problem, you have a series of secret contracts that are being concluded in Serbia, from the Smederjev ironworks, which I mentioned, "Berograda na Voda", where when an annex, "Er Serbia", land given to Arabs, is always an alibi "Fiat". I suggest you publish the first Fiat contracts, then all other contracts. Don't let one contract be an alibi, that secret contracts be your manners, because secret contracts usually serve to conceal something, something that is popular or something that isn't useful to the state. You're talking about fighting corruption. Here is the mention of Savamal in the context of mockery. We're talking about three barracks. There's talk of a minor incident. That's not true. An incident with samal is an incident that has deeply destroyed the foundations of the rule of law and suspended a completely legal state. Why are you minimalizing Savamala? Because it's very hard to believe that such a thing could have happened without your knowledge and without your will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1075	Thank you. Thank you. The Mandator is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there seems to be a problem today, so everyone thinks when he yells and says as quickly as possible that it strengthens the strength of his arguments. Now you'll see that every word he's said, I wouldn't say it, but in any case, it's not true, but every word he says. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: He has appointed his wife as director, and now he talks about nepotism. The fact that he's appointed his wife director is another thing and we're not going to do it now. That's what we're going to do at the country level and talk about everything that's been going on. Now we're going to talk about what was in the state. I know perfectly well the principles of the division of power that you don't know, Mr. Pitiæ, and you've never met them. You never wanted to meet them. I don't know where you found the fifth year of power, since it hasn't even expired four yet, but now, what do you care, I guess that's getting you something psychological, saying something's wrong. I'm not proud of every year because for every day I spent in power I didn't steal a single penny, I didn't damage my country in any way, but I fought for it day and night and worked for it the best I knew and knew, whether you liked it or not. But that's far from 16 years from your reign, the completely sovereign 16-year-old rule behind which you left the desolation in Zrenjanin, which we talked about, and in Novi Sad, in which you have not brought any factories, you have not brought a single factory in 16 years, neither to Sombor nor to Panchev. Then why didn't you, Mr. Pajtić, solve the problem of Azotara, that you didn't solve the problem of Petrochemy, that you didn't solve the problem of the ISK? You solved it by closing down the factory, waiting for a 216m-euro debt. In this second 186m-euro factory, that's how you solved it. Where did you leave us something good? In Heterland, where you spent a million euros on disabled children and you left us this. This is the result of your work, Mr. Pittice. This is the result of a million euros spent on this and spent on it. One million euros from the citizens of Vojvodina. Look for this ruin, where the disabled children were supposed to be, and hold our moral sermons here. You talk, you attack a reporter here, you say he invented a hotel on Briony, and maybe the hotel invented it for you, maybe not with six or seven stars, but with five or six stars, he just didn't make it up that you were on Briony at the time of the storm, so you covered it up with a story that you were in a hotel in Briony, when I had to defend the press, because you didn't know there was a storm 20 years ago and it was going to be the biggest storm celebration, so right there to celebrate. Well, now it bothers you whether you were in a six-star hotel or a five-star hotel, it doesn't matter to me, you could go to a nine-star hotel. I don't know if it exists. I don't see any difference, I just don't understand what you're suing him for, what was wrong with the number of stars in the hotel you were in? Is that why? But trust you. That's how it would be for you to manage the press and the media to sue everyone and destroy everyone if you could talk about freedom of the press. You whose time no one could show up, you who broadcast the dirtiest spots. You who ran the dirtiest campaign every day against all of us, where no one could say anything in any way. You're saying, since you used professional terms, I guess that sounds better, so you're out of alocrat, the rule of the mob and the rule of mass when you burned this congregation, you came to cakistocrats, for those who don't know that's the rule of the worst. You have one problem with me, when you want to talk professionally, I'll be more successful than you, when you want to threaten, I'll never be afraid of you, ever. All of you together as many of you as there are, and I will answer each and every one of you here. I'm obliged to answer to all of you today. As many of you as there are, I have to answer to everyone myself, and I don't have any problem as in Simultanka I'm going to answer you, and I'm going to put everyone in the place where they belong, and yours is out there somewhere far away, out there because of all the bad things you've done for the Republic of Serbia and for the province of Vojvodina in the previous 16 years. You say the Constitution is unequivocal, so I guess the Constitution interprets and is responsible for this is the Constitutional Court, not Bojan Pajtic, or at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, teaching students that you are in charge of interpreting the Constitution rather than the Constitutional Court? And the Constitutional Court said something different from you. The Constitutional Court says – yes, pension is guaranteed right but not height. And we wouldn't have had pensions if we just kept paying off what you left us because you destroyed the country. You're telling me – it was 2014. Well, I did in 2013 we had a growth of 2.6% compared to your growth of minus 3.6%. That's all you forgot to tell the citizens. You're talking about agriculture here. You made it all up. I'm not gonna say the hard word. You made it all up. We have an increased number of pigs. We have an increase in the number of pigs by 3%, by 3%. Here, you'll get accurate and accurate data because you take and mix numbers from the slaughterhouse... (Bojan Pajtic, from the place: The meat is more expensive. ( b) What is more expensive? Now, don't throw it at me when I beg you, now you'll hear what's more expensive. Well, that's a good thing you told me. Now, Serbian citizens, let's hear why it's more expensive. You have one municipality in Serbia. A small municipality in Serbia whose total annual budget is 950,000 dinars, an even better billion. Imagine that, and they left a four billion dinar commitment due to the blockade of all municipal institutions. Transfers were made through a football club, you won't believe, this is a unique case in the world. The football club has been turned into a public utility company. Have you heard of a public utility football club? Now you'll see the papers. He stayed longer than two years for wages in the local waterway, people came out to strike the other day, they don't know what, the debt, the two years' wages aren't paid, what you're going to do, but it's not that much. Look there you have local communities. Everyone has their own bills and look, I'm reading you straight off the paper, you can't make this up. See what the block level is. The local community of Azanja million and 596 thousand, MZ Vodice, two million and 800, that's the amount of the blockade, not all of it. Vodice, two million and 842 thousand, MZ Kusada, 13 million and 503, people, Selevac, millions and 532 thousand, Golobok, four million 147, Little Plan, million 627, Predvorica, million 182, Colony, two million 56, Old Chars, million and 13 and all that goes. That's the day of July 27, 2016, the ones that are blocked. Primary school one, two million 375 thousand, OS "Vuk Karadzic", seven million 928 and now everything. The public company Palanka Development, 87 million 998 thousand, public company Palanka, 17 million 346 thousand, Chika Jova Dragon, 40 million 474 thousand, Otto, five million 681 thousand, sport 709 thousand. Health Home 11 million 591, public utility "Vovod" 286 million 971 thousand, JKP "Mikulja" 60 million 537 thousand and look, and that's nothing. These are the ladies and gentlemen, copies of the bar bills paid by the municipality. And then you wonder why there was no money for one or the other or the third thing. And, in those cafe accounts, I don't know about beer, it's a Tuborg 135 piece beer, a Heineken beer 143 piece. So, what delegation are you taking to the same bar and drinking 250 beers? Beer "Lav" 65 pieces, 139 thousand 850. You have, by the way, to show you, there's a difference between the account where you see someone, that they've been fictitiously done, they haven't really been drinking that much beer, but three thousand over here, and the rest in his pocket. That's how it worked. But I think what you've seen on your own around public enterprises tells the people enough how it's managed. And look what it looks like in election campaigns and how Bojan Pajtic cared about the citizens' money. Apparently, he works for the public works of NGOs. And in the end, I'm going to finish what was his comment, which is the ultimate cynicism. He says the student organisation Fatty, MP Zolatn Chucki, member of the DS, was a candidate of the DS in the election. Women's Support Centre, Marija Srdic, a prominent member of the DS, a member of the resolution board, a million and fifty thousand. This first 350,000, this million fifty thousand. The environmental movement of the municipality, the candidate of the board, is also an NGO of 229 thousand. Then, the Civil Network for Sustainable Development, a member of the DS, donated the DS earlier to $30,000, and now they get 704,000 to return with interest. Then, the DMO, member of DS, Damir Taljaji, donated DS was 45 thousand, now with interest he got two million and 400 thousand of your money, your people's money. Romano Anglunipe, Caves, Ivan Jovanovic, member of the DS, was a candidate for the council, millions and 80,000. Sunflower Pećinci, a DS member, was the head of social activities in the municipality of Pećinci, Dragica Petkovic, 733 thousand. The Centre for Development of the Landsport Municipality, a million 250 thousand, the So Landsport Councilman. That when you see it's under a million it's something he's done wrong. The youth club of the municipality of Ruma, a million 373, candidate for the MP, Lazar Tabandjelic. Somborska writes to DS all Marietta Steinfer, member of the DS, president of DS youth, Sombor, 1,300,000. There's one member of the LSV, Edith Beneti Racic, she's only 310,000, I apologize. He has the Association of Women "Gakovcanka" 1,400,000, Katica Jokić, member of the Council of the MZ Gakovo, in front of the DS. There's more, it's important that people hear this, listen there's also a Federation of Youth NGOs for Rural Development. They got, people, six million dinars, 50,000 euros paid off recently. For what? For nothing. It was only paid because they were members of the Democratic Party. Otherwise, the money was received by Diana Salak, the sister of former DS MP Igor Salak and the president of the OOD Zitiste. Creative social movement, Svetlana Arambasic, member of DS – 1,100,000; and there is also an Infocentar Zitiste – 1,300,000, Bojan Marchetta, and DS. That's how you shared the national money. That's how you shared people's money, and you think it's funny and you're laughing. It's sad, Mr. Pittick, and you know it's funny, only to a man who can do it funny. Only to a man who's funny, that's not controversial. Now, you see, when you talk about public debt, I'll tell you that again -- the public debt is shrinking, by reducing deficits, it's growing in geometric progression to cover everything you've left us with. It wasn't 15.4, but 19.2, because on the same day in Vlada Dinkic he had to take money to pay for salaries and pensions that were not there, because liquidity was zero, cash flow without existence, which you should know as the province's prime minister, but it seems that in 16 years you haven't learned that. What do you care, you were just spending money, you never even cared about where you'd get it, you're right. That's why you don't need to know. That's why you can say things like that. Now, we've managed to bring down the deficit, and you should respect that. You should've congratulated on that. You should have said yes, you did something that was good. You can't say something that you did what was right because in 16 years you can't think of anything good you could do. Now, that's your problem. Your problem is that you think that, as you did before, from Kostunica to many others, that when you start yelling through your media and through who knows who and some of the other sectors you run the campaign, you usually get scared. Your problem is I'm not impressed at all. I'm not impressed by that kind of campaign, that kind of pressure, or that kind of pressure, if you want every day from media threats to the hardest possible words, the attack you reach, what you get at, I'm not worried at all. You do your job, I'll do my job, and don't worry, I've prepared for another replica everything to read about what you've been doing and through "Metalalis Bank", Development Bank, Development Fund and how you've thoroughly participated not in the development, but in the robbery of the AP Vojvodina. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Bojan Pajtic, from the place: Replica. ) (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1077	Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure and Bojan Pajtic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1078	Thank you. I'm advertising a natural violation of the 107th Parliament's dignity. You may not have noticed, you were absent, but there was Mr. Arsic, perhaps the prime minister didn't notice, someone here accused us of being illegal around the Assembly, that she was created by some Bulgarian train. It's a terrible insult to this home. Maybe it's a car projection, because they've been collecting votes like that in Vojvodina. I do not allow anyone to insult me in such a way, especially the one who provided his majority with the votes of Bodrum. I'm asking you to react in the future. If they don't like it, if this is an illegal assembly, which you're sitting here, go outside and not get into RIK like hiduces when ambassadors organize you, but have a nice, legal try to get to the mandate. As far as the Bulgarian train is concerned, I know that you've been doing it in Vojvodina, that you've been buying voters your whole life, and I'm asking the honourable presidents to react in the future when someone like this insults parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1079	Thank you. Okay, you've noticed, I'm not the one who ran the session, but all to be in the spirit of democracy, we don't often react, but I'd rather say that's how you described it as an insult to national minorities, plus to parliament, because I don't know what it means by a Bulgarian train or something like that. But okay, if you don't want to vote, you've already helped me. The word is Radoslav Milojic, the same injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1080	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 106 because this isn't the session of SO Smederevska Palanka. I'm glad the Prime Minister is paying so much attention to Smederevska Palanca, I'm very pleased. I'm sorry he never came to Smederevska Palanka. Just for the sake of truth, the local community of Vodice has been blocked for work through the PPP Firevac for the road that was built in 2006. Your Honor, in 2006, I was 22, had nothing to do with local self-government. You said yesterday that the municipality was in charge 500 years in advance, that means 500 billion, and our budget is a billion on an annual basis, which means 500 billion, which is not true. I delivered 2012 with coalition partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1081	Why didn't you ask for a replica, please? (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Go ahead. I'll count this as a replica, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1082	You can time please just...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1083	Okay, you'll get five seconds more than I'll count this as a replica, let the Rules of Procedure go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1084	Thank you. When I and my coalition partner were elected president of the municipality, all the councilmen, I have a memo in my bag, and I gave all the committees a memo where the municipality was in charge of two and a half billion. Now it's two billion, 500 million we've paid back, not a single day at RIN we haven't been, not a single day because you blocked us right away. As far as the city football club is concerned, it was founded long before 2012, and I have been president since 2012 and not a public company, but a public institution. After all, you can tell us how you got an apartment from the state in 1999, while we were being dropped by bombs while you brought us into war...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1085	Please let's hear the messenger say what he's going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1086	Thank you. I'll answer for the beer later, because I don't drink and I'm a athlete, but the municipality has the right to help manifests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1087	Thank you. I consider this a replica and replica of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1088	I'm happy and I really have nothing more to add. I have here brought me 145,000 euros from the military, Serbia paid the first of the 60 wars in 2011, and then gave Miskovic and you paid no more war for Maxi, no matter what, small things. But let me tell you something, thank you for everything you've said, and just don't ask for a replica anymore, better for you. Thank you very much. (Bojan Pajtic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Bojan Bagica, you do the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1090	Dear fellow Members, I'm advertising the violation of Members 106 and Article 107. Since Mr. Pajtic did not stick to the agenda, and he insulted us all under number one and me and all my colleagues, calling here various names and ways in which we came. I would just like to know the public, that everyone knows, and Mr Pajtic knows very well what was on March 15th 2016 when the government, whose head was in Vajska for the non-existent Roma inclusion office, which never registered, delivered 350 packages of food packages, which were purchased in Vajska, delivered to the non-existent Roma inclusion office, and at the address of Zoran Petrovic, a candidate for DS boardman in SO Bac. The Socialist movement delivered material to all the media a day later and I hope that the new interior minister will react according to this. Then, twice more within a month and a half, a quantity of nearly a thousand food packages has been delivered to the municipality of Bac, the non-existent organizations, which means, when the dispatcher says that the recipient of the Roma Office for Inclusion in Vajska, and the seal of the reception stands, the seal of the Roma Bača association, is this a clean and legal legal procedure? No, like there was nothing Bojan Pajtic did in Vojvodina for 16 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1091	Are we voting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I or Veroljub Arsic committed? (Folder bag, from the city: no, thank you.) ) The word has Bojan Pajtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1092	I thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Prime Minister has brought many lies and insults to my account and shown ignorance not only of the division of power, but of the jurisdiction of the Republic and the province. Azotara and the ICTY are not the jurisdiction of the province, but will also have to be resolved by the Republic in the future. He showed a lack of knowledge of the functioning of the executive system. Namely, the Prime Minister does not decide which NGOs will receive funds in the competition of a particular province institution, and he has shown an enviable knowledge of DS members, so I did not know how many DS members he knows personally. What's brutally untrue and what's offensive is that I've appointed my wife director. I've never appointed a wife, nor has my wife ever been a director, but that's why we're going to vote on the director of the high school where Mr. Vukic's son went to become minister of education. My wife was not a director, but that's why Mrs. Kori Udovici will no longer be a minister, because she did not defend Mr. Vukic's godfather, but she will be Mrs. Ana Brnabic, who, in the affair of recruiting foreign investors, defended the godfather, Alexander Vukic. As for 16 years of government, gentlemen, look at the calendar, inform yourself, it's not true that I've been in office for 16 years in executive power. As for "Hetherland", you have arrested Mr. Vrebalov for this "Hetherland", and now you are in a coalition with the committees of the Citizens of Milivoa Miša Vrebalov. So much for your consistency, fighting for children with disabled needs, fighting for the rule of law, and your justice and fighting corruption. Don't say anything. By 10%, the number of pending cases was increased, and 1.154 claims were filed for damages due to unfounded detention between 1 January 2015 and 31 March 2016, so 15 months. So much for your fight against corruption and consistency and the fight against crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1094	Dear Mr. Pititic, I don't mind if I didn't do something else about what you attacked my child, and I was attacked by a Boyan Pitiæ child, to hear what it is. He attacked my child, just mentioned my son. Do you know why he attacked him? Because he went to school where I don't know what Mr. Sarcevic is. I've never seen Mr. Sarčević before. My son was a very good student, not even great that you could say I was paying for something or that I needed him. You attacked a child who went straight to school, ended up fair and square without a single grade. You're not ashamed and ashamed. You are dangerous people, exactly as Ducic said, only for some where he may have made a mistake. You are dangerous people only because you have no shame, no shame, no cheek. You're telling us – no, it's not a football club, it's a public institution. We spent that beer like that. I didn't drink, they drank the others. Take a bath with the football players in the beer. You say you didn't know how much money they got. You knew, Mr. Pititic, you made each one personal. That's what you've been giving campaign money to DS members. Don't deceive the public. You thought I'd run away from your stories. About racketeering and imaginary conversations when you're invited to a polygraph you can't show up. Run for your feet, I'll run for my life, I'll run everywhere, because you know you've never said anything true in your life. Is that it? So my child is wrong to you. Shame on you. And that's the way you talk to me about it. Boyan Pajtić, from the scene: How do you talk? As I speak to you that shame be upon you, you who insult my child. How can you not be ashamed? Boyan Pajtić, from the place: Shame on you! ) You who have appointed all criminals possible, from "Metals Bank", not to mention everything else. Now we're going to read to the people, so people can see it. There's no need, no need for you to put people from your family in the principal post because my son is not the director and he's not going to be the director, he's a very good student and nothing more than that. So, since you're doing it, and when you're talking about "Hetherland," you've given Duke's money, Serbian money, national money, you, you've given our money, which you've destroyed, and these people are responding. That's our money. You spent a million euros of our money to give a ruin to disabled children. That's why you mentioned my son. That's why my child bothers you, since you don't know what else to use as an argument, then he's, oh, imagine, he told me shame on you, imagine. Well, that's minimal. You deserve much, much harder words, much worse words would be suited to what you did earlier. Shame on you. So, what was Bojan Pitiæ doing? So people can hear in Serbia and know what really happened. Therefore, during the reconstruction and adaptation of the facility for the purposes of housing and stay of children distracted in the development of the municipalities of Novi Vienna and the castle "Hatterland" in Bočar, they faked the volume and quantity of works carried out on the facility, spent the money paid for the construction of the facility for paying off their earlier debts and their own needs, all to the detriment of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which was, in fact, the main thief company DS, with the "Vojvodina Development Bank", which granted them money as foreigners. The problem is that money is ours, which is that money - the money of Serbian citizens. They obtained illegal property benefits, and then you will see where all these same companies worked, in the company "Gardi" of 61,722,724 dinars, exactly according to course 541,427 euros. So, 550,000 euros, that people understand exactly, where the municipality of Novi Vienna has been damaged by about a million euros, since the facility of which is 112,075,373 dinars has not been built so far. Then they started saying it was our fault that it wasn't built, that any of us had anything to do with all this. They thought that the more they said such lies, the more they said earlier, in which, you'll notice, they'll try to sell us one trick, Mr. Pajtic. It was very cleverly done. I sued Vukevic over a hotel in Brioni. So it was just a matter of stars, and he was on Briony and he was on Briony celebrating the 20th anniversary of Storm, but he thought no one would notice it, that kind of untruth and that kind of fraud. You insult Anna Brnabic, you should also be ashamed. You insult Ana Brnabić because you could not have such an expert, because you had, as I said, the rule of the worst, those who managed only their own, only personal interests and nothing more. That's why you couldn't get Anna Brnabić, because Ana Brnabić didn't ask us to give her "ppa" and feed in tariffs to earn five times as much in a year, as others asked. And I kept quiet about it, let the authorities do their whole job, and you were running like a fly without a head, and you don't like Stefanovic's polygraph. What would you like? What would you do if you didn't want a police polygraph from the Serbian state? You want another state to be in charge here? Would you like someone else? You don't trust your institutions as Prime Minister at the time. What country do you trust, what institutions? You don't trust anyone, because you know you're telling the truth, as you always tell the truth, because you know that now all citizens see that your policy has failed, because you know. And you've been doing all this to get a tough answer, so tomorrow you can say when it's completely clear what kind of criminal activity you've been involved in, to say, it's political persecution. In a number of criminal acts, you, yes, and when you see it and when it comes out in the next days and weeks, then you'll say, hey, guys, this is political persecution, this is a terrible thing. That's why it was due today to come to the National Assembly and tell people the scariest things that whatever happens after they can say it's political persecution. Let me tell you something, these pressures of yours and those tricks of yours that it's all political persecution I'm not at all impressed or fascinated by. If there's anything you've been involved in, you'll answer. If you're not, you won't answer. I'm not the authority. I told you what your intentions were. I've seen your guilty conscience, Mr. Pytic, as I've seen these dirty tricks you've been running around the hotel on Briones, etc. These tricks were sold to us when we were six years old, and you're trying to sell to the Serbian public. says – he's not right, he's not a football club public-communal company, he's a public institution. More public prosecutor's office has taken all the measures for Hetherland and they're doing their job. The claims for damages Mr. Pajtic is talking about, because everything he says doesn't tell the truth, to be nice and relaxed. All claims for damages due to the unfounded deprivement of the freedoms it speaks of, which have been filed by the persons, because they were arrested at the time of your authority, held in custody during the period he stated, those persons have been legally released. These are all those people from "Sablje" and the other actions you arrested completely against the law, and today they are asking us for money to give them the state of Serbia. Absolutely everyone, and that's the information we've now received and it's completely accurate and you'll get everything in the case. Is it possible to miss anything you say? Let's at least say one thing to the truth tonight. Come on, at least one. Why don't you tell the people that you agreed with this company to take money for your party around those wind parks, to explain to the people what this is about? Don't swear at me, don't threaten me. Don't swear. I saw you cursing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1095	Cameras record messengers, and you can see what's being said in the video.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1096	The cameras are filming you. It's no big deal. You wanted to take the money, and now I'm going to explain to the people how that principle works. Why don't we have a lot of those windmills, as you can see, 'cause I won't let them rob the people. I haven't let them rob people all this time. Now you will hear how and why free people can understand, that a common man can understand why. We're going to have to have these wind parks in the future, because we have a very low electricity price, that ordinary people understand. What are they asking of us? So-called fidine tariffs. They're asking us to admit to them that whatever they produce that our state will pay them twice the market price. They demand that they invest in the wind farm, and as soon as we give them consent, they have a wind farm contract, they go to the bank, they get the money, after four, five years of investment, and they're pulling out the next 70 years of money, twice what we pay for the power from coal or hydropower plants even, which is also more expensive than the one we get from the thermo power plants. So double the price. I watched it stop. I'm counting, the more we stop it, the more we increase our electricity prices by four, five, six years, at which point we're going to have to meet these European standards because of green energy, but to protect the state from paying that money. Look who insisted on it. Whoever I know insisted on it, I know he wanted to steal money, because that's the only point of the whole job. We get nothing, except we have to pay, instead of five, nine euro cents per kilowatt hour, nine comas two euro cents per kilowatt hour. So, today your market price is slightly less than five euro cents. We would be obliged to make a commitment to the contract to pay 9.2 euros, and you people, citizens of Serbia, and honourable MPs to conclude who was the thief here?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1097	Let me see something with the secretary general. Okay. You're one of mine. So it is allowed in parliament today almost everything in some frameworks of decency. My request is, then, you can criticise, of course, the program and exposé of the prime minister. You can criticize, talk about ministers' personalities, why you're against and what you have to blame them for. Please do not go beyond the border of decency, beyond the limit of something that no one can, therefore, bear, which is the mention of children in a negative context. It's an extremely ugly thing. We've established a child rights committee here. We like to sit in it, meet some European and world criteria, bring some kind of declaration, and then when we want to stab someone in the heart, we mention kids. It's really not correct, and I'm asking you to go back to the debate, talk politics, talk about the prime minister if you have to, past the kids and what we have to say to him personally, whether we like it or not, about both the exposé and the people who are proposed to be his team. In that sense, I give the word further to the powers and heads of the parliamentary groups. It's Ivica Dacic, then we have Sasa Radulovic left, if you're reporting for exposure. Ambassador Radulovic, I did not tell you to point your hand at other MPs, or you have a double. I asked you, as chairman, if you called to discuss the exposé. If you're not, don't suggest. They're all full-aged people here, so they don't even need lawyers. I didn't give you my word. [[Radoslav Milojic, from place: Right to replica.]] I asked MP Radulovic what his intention was. Here you go. If you want to cooperate, you will, if you won't, my God, 250 MPs... There are those who want to discuss, there are those who don't want anything. Hansel Dacic, come in. It means I'm erasing you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm erasing you. You want to sign up, be nice. Because I asked you so you won't... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I told you three times that I answered. Watch the camera. I said verbal violence is worse than physical one time. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Dacic, please fight for your word. I'm powerless, I'm a woman, so I don't have the strength to do it. Boyan Pajtic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1098	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected National Assembly President, Prime Minister and Prime Minister for the formation of the new government, at the beginning, since I am still the head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, of course the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for the election of the new government, but that is nothing new, I have talked about it several months ago and after the elections were held. I believe that the results achieved in our co-operation over the past years, and this co-operation has been going on since 2012, have greatly affected the improvement of the image of Serbia's people's position, but that Serbia today, 2016, is certainly not the same as in 2012. I would not talk about the details and details of what the mandateee was talking about in the exposé, but I am pleased to say that in the last four years there have been financial consolidations, i.e. consolidation of public finances, but also very important moves and on the internal political but regional agenda, on the external political agenda, and since I am one of those who has been here in parliament for many years, I think Serbia's position today is incomparable compared to the time of several years ago. Surely, many results have been achieved and I think what can be expected in the coming years is that by 2020, we have the full mandate of this government, the possibility of completing technical negotiations on Serbia's membership in the EU, but of course to achieve very significant results on Serbia's reform and development plan. I'd like to comment on a few questions that have been raised here. First, I saw yesterday that some MPs and some parliamentary groups had left the session because they allegedly did not respect the business provision of seven days required by the rules for the appointment of the session. I'd like to remind you of that, unless this is an event of historical importance, so the whole focus is on dialogue with Mr. Radulovic, and I wanted to tell him and everyone else, I'll wait for him to return. Since Bojan Pajtic spoke yesterday about the need for seven days before the session, my memory is that in 2008, when the DS – SPS – JS – PUPS was created on Friday 4 July, a session is scheduled for Monday 7 July, where is it seven days? I also suggested Mr. Radulovic last time as minister. I certainly didn't suggest it seven days earlier. So all the stories about it, I understand that time erases everything and forgets everything, but there are still those who remember it here. Find a more serious argument. I am disappointed in the level of criticism of the ruling coalition and our party and the mandate. If these are the biggest problems and the biggest criticisms you're going out with, he thinks it's a disgrace to the opposition in Serbia. What are these criticisms, whether it was seven days or two days, whether the exposé was divided or not, when you shared it while you had a mandate. (Radoslav Milojčić, from the place: with you. Not just with us, you had... Do you think I'm ashamed of being in power for so long? I guess someone's struggling to be in power. I don't understand why you're fighting. With this policy of yours, it will remain your dream. Don't use that as an argument, I want to ask if there are any different policies here. This is where Seselj came out with things that are political. On the other hand, Cedomir Jovanovic also said things that are political. I'm not running away, and I think that's the topic on which our ruling coalition, our alliance, the list led by Alexander Vukic and this list of us and the Hungarians and all the others who make up the coalition are dominant on these difficult political issues. What are the difficult political issues? It is mentioned here whether we in the economy will have a liberal concept, whether we will have a concept of social state, prosperity or have state interventionism etc. You can call it whatever you want, in terms of the economic crisis that has affected the whole world, it wasn't possible without the state to get out of the crisis. A headline came out in Newsweek, saying, “Now we’re all a bit of a socialist, ” why? Because the state in Austria, Germany, Belgium, I don't know where it's taken all the measures to save banks, to buy banks, to save businesses. Those aren't market measures, gentlemen. Market measures have led to this economic chaos and this kind of crisis. He's right when he says there's no one model in the world today, there's a mix of different models and making different answers. No one's got the best answer yet. What is the answer to social democracy, what is the response of the ethnic coalitions, what is the response of the communists? There's no real response to the economic crisis and no crisis at all. We had neoliberalism in Serbia after 2000, here's where it came from. It led to a robbery privatisation, led to a system that... Practically, we are now talking about the SAA, reminding that the SAA was adopted at a session of the Serbian government led by Kostunica and Tadic. It was adopted at a cabinet session because Kostunica came out of the agenda and chaired the DS. They're cheap. It's like having Alexander Wolf out now and leaving me to chair. The DSS and DS government adopted the SAA and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's not say it's not true now. That's right. The second thing, without any government decision, without an SAA immediately after October 5th, was the first thing you did except with the phantoms and other things you entered the NBS and other companies, Customs, etc., which was first done, to remove customs duties on agricultural goods from abroad. No one forced us to do that. Just like we've abolished everyone's visas in the world, no one's forced us to. This investment policy is absolutely wrong and absolutely failing. That's why I think the state today is the biggest employer, the biggest investor, the biggest consumer, and it must play a role in getting out of the crisis. The Socialist Party of Serbia has backed consolidation measures. We believe that the key thing in the future is development, or growth. Without development, without GDP growth, Serbia cannot move forward, and this is exactly the goal that we should all seek in the next period. When it comes to European values, seeing as how everyone in turn is expressing fear that perhaps the preamble of the Constitution could be changed, you won't blame me for what I might be talking about more political issues. The prime minister talked more about economics, and I need to talk about these topics because I think this is also the essential thing that should be the subject of the conversation here. You're talking about getting the preamble out, and I'm asking you what's going on with Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that the Republic of Serbia is among all other states based on the membership of European principles and values. What did you, as such an anti-European from the DSS, put it in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What are European principles and values, and you are now against joining the EU? Then why did you give us such a constitution? (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: It is not the same. What? It's not the same European principles and values, and what? Is it possible that European principles and values determine Albania or Turkey? I guess it's determined by the EU, don't be ridiculous, it's meant by the EU. In addition, when you wrote the Rules of Procedure and everything else, you spoke about the adoption of everything that is important for the harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation after a brief procedure. So, they're empty stories. Whether or not we should go to the EU, whether we should turn to Russia rather than the EU, I think that these are the paths that are all set in this way causing great harm to all of us. These questions must be... Shormaz, I'm asking you to... Mr. Shormaz, I'm only asking you to listen to me. I wasn't really interrupting anyone. I've been waiting to come here in line as the head of the parliamentary group of the second largest and I'm asking you to listen to me. I don't think I'm saying anything that's wrong. I speak for both your benefit and mine because our policy together is in Serbia's interest. In any case, I think the deeply wrong sentence that Cedomir Jovanovic said today is that we pay the price of the wrong policy that we have made. I know what kind of politics he's thinking about. He means a policy that was led in the 1990s regarding the protection of our national and state interests. So I'm going to remind him that Victoria Januan, Assistant Secretary of State of America, recently declared that the United States has invested in KIM independence for 20 years. That was 1996. All the time, political parties that included such a political option said that it was Slobodan Milosevic's policy. After all, it could be heard from his mouth, no matter what I respect him, and that Republika Srpska is a genocide. These are things that cause deep damage to our national and state interests. Just these days, I've been advertised so much these weeks when it comes to things that represent the truth, not because the Wolf would take me to the government, but because I think... . The emissaries are insolent. Mr. Milic, listen, I know you're sorry...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1099	Now, you see that I allow you to throw, that is, disdain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1100	Okay, Mr. Milic, you're sorry, you've been so little in power that you simply can't write it down in your biography, but you've left enough damage to this people and to the state, and that's why you won't even come back. But you keep speaking, and from your ranks is heard, and it is said: we have a rhetoric that resembles the '90s. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when rhetoric is reminded of the 40s when Stepinac is rehabilitated, when the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" is rehabilitated, when monuments to Ustasha terrorists are raised, when in this way the greatest ethnic cleansing of Serbs is celebrated after World War II, the greatest ethnic cleansing in Europe after World War II, as we have a commitment rather than a voice against it. Why don't we applaud that? You say - why Vanja Udovic made a mistake when he said - to Kosovo athletes, and what, that we may not be standing and listening to the Kosovo anthem, a non-existent state, an unrecognizable state, which was declared on the basis of violations of international law. Let's talk about it, because we have different attitudes about it. I'm proud of having different attitudes from you and I'll never have them the same as you. Also, I know that when we were in the coalition with the DS, you had different attitudes. You had a situation with Russia that you wanted good relations. A democratic party, when? I'm not sure. I've always had, and you've always pushed around with Kostunica, and there are chairs missing who's gonna sit down and sign an agreement just to beat Tom Nikolic in the election. That was... (Radoslav Milojcic, from the place: Who? ) So Boris Tadic, who. (Radoslav Milojčić, from the post: He is not a member of the DS. I'm sorry, then he's in this other party. (Radoslav Milojcic, from the place: It is the same as that of Minister Vulin... I beg you all, I accept all our members no matter where they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1101	Please, sir. You're a candidate, please don't communicate. Mr. Vulin, please don't communicate that way. You're just a candidate. I'll give you back this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1102	You know what, I spent so much time in controversy with my former coalition colleagues, I'm not gonna ask you to give it back to me. If I have to, I can give them a lecture on how to get to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1103	I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1104	Anyway, the policy they're running is wrong, and they don't want to talk politics because they don't have it. Their policy is based on the fact that they spit on Wolf, Dacic or anyone else. Give me some politics. The choice is over. Your policy has been lost and you have the place you deserve. Anyway, I hope no one's surprised, we'll vote to form a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1105	The word has a mandater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1106	Once again, a few words about the weight of the position in which the Republic of Serbia is located and this was discussed by Vice President Dacic. It won't be easier in three months, not in six months, and everything that's happening to us, I wouldn't say it's going to work out for us, even though we've managed so far to avoid these major strikes on a ship called Serbia and there's going to be a lot of problems in the future and in the environment. I'd say we don't even have world opportunities, but you can't choose them. You live in a time when we don't create them as little, but first of all, we watch how to protect ourselves, how to protect ourselves, how to defend ourselves. I think it is very important and very important that people in Serbia realize that what we do about national policy and national interests is the most that we can do from empty heroism and from being the strongest we would have nothing, except that we would have a lot of new victims and someone in 10 and 20 years would have to rebuild the economy and think about how to rebuild the country. Remember that by being economically stronger and our military industry is stronger and we are stronger and we can influence the prevention of anyone who would want to endanger the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we have also made decisions on special investments in our dedicated industry. That's why I think it's one vital part of our industry and our economy because even in these troubled times where and when you talk about block divisions, I'm afraid they don't exist anymore because I'm not sure where you'd put Turkey today, I'm not sure where you'd put some other countries. Within the EU itself, there are numerous divisions and numerous cracks, different attitudes. Of course, everyone in the EU is because they have the highest interest and economic well-being, and I would say peace and stability and know how expensive it is to participate or be part of any destabilisation. So, I think it's essential and crucial that we look at what it is that we can do in the future to protect our country, to protect it primarily with a wise, smart and rational policy and to know well the relations of power in the world. When you talked about Milosevic earlier, about yours first, and I took part in it from 1998 to 2000, there was one very serious mistake. I don't want to talk about the others, there were more, of course. That serious mistake is in the next one. It's of course not emotional, it's deeply rational, it's very real, and it's that we haven't looked at the relationship of power in the world, that we haven't understood what's going on around us and what we've been able to calculate and count. Not to go into the measure of politics, not to say that everything else was wrong, but this is what those in power cannot afford. You're entitled to that luxury when you're in opposition. When you're in opposition and you can say things that don't stand, you can say things that people like, you can talk about what people want to hear. When you're in government, then you can't talk like that, then you have to have a different language, a different dictionary, and you have to keep an interest in your country and your citizens. What we did in the previous period and what we did, you might have seen for the first time, even though somehow I'm trying to bring it down and down, but we've strongly opposed something where it wasn't possible to keep quiet. He can't keep his mouth shut about the rise of the constitution, Nazism as well as ideologies, and that's our obligation to speak clearly and unequivocally. I am proud of the fact that the government of Serbia and its resolute ministers had the courage to react to these kinds of provocations, because one day some in Europe will wonder why they have not responded to such things. You can't explain to anyone that Miro Bareshic is not a terrorist. You can't explain to anyone that Alojzi Stepinac, the Ustasha Vicar, was not a criminal, although they gave and sacrificed him, because they knew he couldn't get the death penalty at the time of the communist government, that in no way would Ante Pavelic, who was both British and American services to rat channels and many others, possibly even eastern services, carried over more countries to Paraguay. A man died in Spain as a free citizen, no problem at all. So, the greatest Nazi villain, he's never been meant to be. Never did communist Yugoslavia judge him, never did communist Croatia judge him. They have found a solution. Judge Stepinac. They tried Stepinac and how he should have been tried, but they knew that since he wasn't personally involved in the slaughter and execution of the crime, they knew he couldn't get the death penalty. But that doesn't diminish his responsibility in any way. Remember, I set an example, and similar examples were in my father's place, but this place is a special example. It's the upper carlovian part, top carlovic mytropolis. In January 1942, the Croats forced them to come to the Catholic Church, baptized them all, and then praised themselves in their newspaper "Croatian Nova". And today there are printed copies. I think Mr. John Payin published it in his book on Aloysia Stepintz. When we talk about it, they did the next thing. They say, "Only then did the Stepinite speak at the trial, after he had defended himself with silence, and after he had assured himself that he was innocent." By the way, the only time he spoke against a Nazi occupier was when his brother was killed. Remember, the Germans rarely fired the most common Ustasha villains. For example, in Prijedor, a group of six Ustashas were shot, for they had never seen such executioners and villains, who killed the Serb enemy and the Serb elders. That's why they were shot. Well, then Stepinac reacts to his brother's death, and there's a statement he's taking today to say he actually pleaded against the Nazi order, and in 1944 he received, so after that, the highest distinction of the Ustaslav state directly from Ante Pavelic. In 1945, in February of the month, as their singers Thompson and others beat them today, Max and his butchers walked towards Jasenovci. Belgrade was released in October 1944. They've all seen and known. In February 1945, they walked around Jasenovac and slaughtered Serbs, still thought they were winning, that it was only a matter of the moment when the Nazi army would recover and will be able to re-emerge. We couldn't keep quiet about those things, and we won't keep quiet about those things. I won't accept that false division of guilt – they're guilty of each other, playing ping pong. There's no ping-pong here, he's got you in the head, and you say, "I'm sorry, we saw that sledgehammer." Then you say - it's ping pong. It's not any ping pong. That's why I'm not going to accept statements from the former president today, who convicted me for saying we're strong enough and that we're never going to let anyone else have a new "Storm". Is that a crime? Is this someone wishing for a new "Storm"? Is that some kind of nationalist, chauvinist or whatever? I think it's normal, reasonable and national. That's what I said not to threaten anyone. I said that in terms of and well-numbered numbers, both ours and everyone else, and understanding that at this point we are able to do so, therefore, to protect our people. Now, those people who thought it was possible for Serbia to break easily because they are members of the EU and members of the NATO Pact forgot that Serbia today has a much greater reputation. Serbia and its debate in parliament have managed to show it. We want to have the best relationship with Croatia and we will work on it, as well as with members of their minority here in our country, but Serbia is nobody's punching bag and it won't be. We're not threatening anyone, and we're not asking anyone for anything. I think the democratic capacity of the debate has also contributed to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. It's my fault that after yesterday's hard and hard day, and since I've been at work since I was seven this morning, I've been in the Assembly at nine, I'm the only one who can't leave this room, you've seen most of those who come to say something a little, a little bit, and then they walk out, and I can't leave the gym because I'm the only one who's authorized to answer, and I have to answer to everyone, and I'm sorry that it hit me when a kid attacked me, but what do I do? I guess I'm a living man and I'm sorry if I'm “a shame on you” or “a shame on you” or something broke or trampled. I don't really think I did, but I didn't have a problem, I should have learned, and I guess that's the only thing I didn't learn. I can bear anything, I can endure all possible lies and lies. You saw a moment ago when I finally dismembered you and the citizens of Serbia, which was behind the story of wind parks and everything else, so you know what the real plans were and why it was done, when you can factor it out, then you see what the Prime Minister has to do and what the Prime Minister has to see. But it's all normal and you have to endure it when you're in that place. What I'm not used to, it's that someone's attacking your children, but absolutely neither guilty nor debt, with the dumbest and dumbest possible explanation anyone's ever given. I apologize once again to you, Members of the People, if in my words you have “failed you either” or“ shame you either” felt some sort of present disrespect for anyone. I'm able to accept that kind of guilt, but I don't think it's happened in this House that someone is attacking someone's children, and I don't think it was the case in Serbia's political life. But what to do seems to have to get used to it. I promise you that it won't be enough for them either, that it won't scare me and that I won't give up on them for a pedal, no matter what they say, no matter how they speak, no matter what lies or inventions they make up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1107	The word is given to the People's Messenger Lapčević. Just explain to me on what basis you're picking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1108	Replica, direct call.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1109	Replica to Hansel Dacic, you personally or party?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1110	The party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1112	Today, the practice has been established here in this House by both the prime minister and Mr Dacic's candidates to attack the DSS several times in a brutal way and to make quite false amounts. So you were saying that during the DSS, robbery and tycoon privatisation were carried out, and you know for yourself that the largest privatisations were carried out between 2000 and 2004, when the DSS was not part of the government. You also know that these resistors were led by people from G17, and even if they were, there is no ideology of a political party that has propagated any abuses. You've been in power for four years, you've got bread and cake and a knife, you've got executive authority, you've got the police, you've got the judiciary, you've got the trial. We don't have any problem with that. Anyone who's guilty, who's over 18 should answer. We don't have any problem with that. Mr Dacic is talking about the adoption of the SAA at the Serbian government's session, and he will not say that the session was illegally scheduled and held without DSS ministers. We had no part in it, on the contrary, we were against it. And the agreement was signed by Mr Djelic, despite opposition from the DSS and the Prime Minister. And you've been attacking the DSS all along, the ones that the DSS and this Kostunica himself saved and your party after 2000. It speaks more of you than of us. And Mr. Prime Minister who wouldn't be in power today if it hadn't been for the support of the DSS in 2012, and you forgot that. It's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1113	Time. Thank you very much. Are you looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1114	If I may just say so. So then there was a choice for the President of the Republic. We've had two brand-new cycles of parliamentary elections. But I, Mr. Kostunica, unlike you who didn't go with him, respect. I don't agree with him at all, and I think it's an honorable man, and I didn't say he was stealing it. You had ministers who were both arrested and against whom procedures were being conducted, which are symbols, but do not forbid me to speak and make political conclusions. Mr. Bubalo wasn't a member. I don't know which parties, but yours. Some others were members of some other political parties and I don't see that there's any problem. First of all, I was very respectful of your party, until some people joined you. I respect her less today, but it's my right. I will always respect you personally. There's no big philosophy here. You haven't heard about Mr. Kostunica much bad from my mouth and you won't listen. What I mean is that he looked to take care of Serbia as much as he could, although I do not agree with everything he did. Because I think he was trying to be nationalally responsible and to take care of the country, but it has nothing to do with thieving, it has nothing to do with Hamovic, Lazarevic and everyone else, it has nothing to do with all the privatisations that were made since 2004 and beyond, as it has nothing to do with all the privatisations that were made from 2001 to 2004. We're talking about spas yesterday, and we have 50 spas in Serbia that were taken just so someone could sell it as property and nothing more. As you're telling us, Hestil was sold as an asset, and you gave it to us empty, only we have to pay and spend at a monthly level of 12m euros to pay the wages without producing anything. That's the difference. It's just that I, unfortunately, can't make it from, I'd say, a rush, fiction and nonsense every day to answer everything. This wasn't about what you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1115	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1116	As far as the SAA is concerned, I told you exactly who he was when he initialled and I didn't lie. I can't talk anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1117	No, you called the line, so that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1118	I didn't know, but okay. I'm sorry, I won't last much longer. Excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1119	Thank you. Ambassador Dacic, the replica? You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1120	Just so it doesn't turn out that I won't answer what Mr. Lapcevic said, I really want us to talk about the policies we have as parties. You know that our coalition has ceased, among other things, because we had a different policy and when it comes to the EU. Now don't make it look like we need something for you to be grateful for. You know what, I hear the same thing from the Democrats and from you, etc. Turns out you all saved us. Wait, man, we saved all of you. If it wasn't for us, where would you be? You haven't been able to build a government since 2004, Kostunica has called us to support you. In secret, I came in the dark there to your offices, so that Zoran Zivkovic wouldn't see us. He's right here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: You wore phantoms. No, the phantoms carried those of you there in front of Milosevic's house. When it comes to other things, it turns out in the end – we need something to owe you. It's all right. I've been correct and I think we've had correct cooperation. As Mr. Vukic says, I didn't attack Mr. Kostunica in the past, but this is about different policies. I didn't lie to you, the government session that was held, was held in such a way that you went out to meet each other. The democratic party of Serbia met with Democrats to adopt something about Russia, and you went out to meet them and went out, they had a majority without you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1121	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1122	The Secretary General of the Government was in the O.R. Mr. Zivkovic, I don't know what he wants to rephrase to me, and to whom, he threw it to me, I didn't do it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1123	MP, two minutes and 19 seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1124	Excuse me, take away those 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1125	Here, it's on the count of what you didn't want the two minutes I gave you. Please understand, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. There's no replica. I decided to close this round and Sasa Radulovic has a word. Here you go. You don't like it when I give you my word, when I don't give you my word. Really, like in a bar. Whatever I do, you'll beat me up. Ambassador, I'm giving you your time. Now I'm going to shut you down. Sign up again, let's start at zero. Let's start over.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1126	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, here we are, we have just suspended the transmission on RTS, so this is very interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1127	The transmission was interrupted, not cancelled, when Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic spoke, not when you started speaking. Don't make a sacrifice of yourself when you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1128	I'm not making anything. You took my word without any basis, and obviously now we see what the reason for that taking of words was when I had the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1129	I'll pay you back. No one took your word for it, and don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1130	To repeat, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the exposé we received had...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1131	MPs, please, just a minute. Ambassador Radulovic is asking absolutely for your attention, if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1132	Can the chairman introduce order into the Assembly? This is something the citizens will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1133	But speak, we hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1134	I'm asking you to introduce order. Can not get folder: %s: %s
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1135	Don't speak to the MP. Talk to each other. Please don't speak to an MP, if that's the situation. You want to talk, you don't want to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1136	Is the goal of preventing me from speaking? I'm asking you to introduce order.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1137	What can I stop now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1138	Dropping is not allowed. We haven't thrown a word yet. The exposure we got was 68 pages. We got it practically on session day. I understand that the practice in the past has also not been to deliver the exposés in time, too, somehow there are always quick session sessions of the Assembly where government has been discussed. However, I hope that the prime minister also agrees that we should stop this practice, that we should not take advantage of what happened before, but rather do what needs to be done, which is that the session is scheduled in time, so that the exposés can be delivered so that we can talk normally. I hope we agree on that and that this practice will be established. During the government's expectations, we heard that it was written from a term of 450 pages of exposé, on karo paper, as it is said, written by hand. I don't think it would turn out to the public if this wasn't true, that the prime minister should show those 450 pages so that citizens would see that it really happened that way and that the prime minister really wrote on karo paper. The exposé is very similar to the exposé we had two years ago. It is full of details, full of various numbers and practically full of promises, and if we go back two years, we see that many, or most of them are not fulfilled. Let's just say, I'm going to mention just one interesting detail that comes back up now, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets. The mandate promised that law in 2012, so then, also somewhere in mid-2015, we heard that by September, it was even a public order at the time for the finance minister to do so by September 15th. That didn't happen unfortunately. What we need to talk about, I mean, that exposure is really big, and we need to talk about the strategic direction for Serbia. The mandate mentioned that he thinks this is the only way, that this is the best way for Serbia, what he wrote in the exposé itself, and of course we disagree. In his exposure to the exposé, he spoke of many, many details. For example, we agree that toilets are important, they're important in our society, but it's not a job for a prime minister. The job for the prime minister is to ensure that the system works, that schools work, that those schools have people who are able to take care of toilets. Like, for example, giving blankets to people from helicopters when the flood is a very important thing, but it's not a job for the prime minister. It's a lifeguard job. The prime minister's job is to create a system where rescue services work. Also, when there was a rescue in Feketic, it was also not the prime minister's job. The prime minister's job is to get rescue services back on track, so when we see rescue services doing their job, then that means, and I think you'll agree, that the system is working, and then that means the prime minister is doing his job. The prime minister's job is the system. Similarly during exposure, construction firms that do not meet the deadlines, etc. were told, and the prime minister said he would personally make sure it happens. It's not the job of a prime minister either. So there's a minister, and the minister has companies, there's services that need to be handled, when we see roads running, deadlines being respected, then we know that the prime minister created a system, that this system works, and then we know that the prime minister is doing his job. We have heard a lot about problems, or problems with the citizens of Serbia. We pulled out some clips about where the prime minister talked on several occasions about how Serbian citizens seem to be lazy people and that we need to learn, or that citizens have to learn not to be lazy anymore than to look up to other citizens around the world who are not lazy. All the problems we heard about in this exposé, we found two culprits, as the prime minister put it. One of them is our lazy people, and the other is that it's their fault from before, so it's because it's not this previous or previous government, it's the government from before, and it's always someone who's guilty before. I think we should finally establish a practice in Serbia to take responsibility when someone becomes prime minister, to bear the responsibility of the job afterwards, not to take out what they did before, but to fix these things and finally have that practice to do so. It's called taking responsibility. As for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our citizens are not lazy and they know it. Serbian citizens are neither smarter nor dumber than other citizens in the world. They're neither prettier nor uglier. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are like all citizens in the world both smart and hardworking. There's a big difference in the system, actually. We have a warped system, and let's say in Germany it's the right system. This system in Germany helps, or is good for decent, smart, and working people. In Serbia, the system is distorted, where for those who are competent and earning money with their work, the system is uphill, and for those who enter political parties the system is downhill. That is Serbia's central problem. Rational people, then seek a line of less resistance, so they only do what is available to them, which is two things either they flee the country or they join political parties and they come to work. It is unfortunately the present in Serbia. For more than 10 years, we have an economic policy based on foreign investors as rescuers, and we have been telling that story about rescuers for so long, if we look around us, we see what the results of this strategy are, or what the results of such economic policy are. She's deeply wrong, and in fact, she is the main dispersal. We have political differences about it, which is how Serbia gets out of the crisis we are in today. We say that Serbia's central problem is a part of the party's parasitic system that the parties have made for themselves. In fact, in our country, the parties made their own country. So it's not our country in our country, it's their country in our country. These parties made for themselves a whole system of party employment that grew over time, now worse than ever. That's what citizens know very well. They know very well that without a party book you can't get, or get a job, that this isn't just for public enterprises, even for cultural institutions. Here, let's say look at Nis or Novi Sad where people come with no qualifications at all at the head of these institutions. So, party employment is when party staffs mostly with purchased diplomas, from imaginary universities come to imaginary administrative jobs. We do not have any extra doctors in the public sector in Serbia, we do not have extra education workers, we do not have a surplus of, say, workers in municipal enterprises working on the ground. We have extra party staff sitting in offices, receiving salaries for non-work. In the entire public sector, an expanded public sector, an expanded public sector in Serbia, over 700,000 people were employed, over 700,000 people. This includes public enterprises and social enterprises. In this public sector, we have about 15% of the party surplus, which costs us billions of euros annually. The fiscal council published a report saying that the government saved on pensions in 2015, we say it took from pensioners, 20 billion dinars, that's 180m euros. That's not the cause of the deficit, that's not the problem of the deficit, that it's taken from the pensioners, it's 180m euros, the problem is this billion party personnel. The other thing is, we have big corruption in the country that continued. Verica Barac, meanwhile, said that the centre of corruption in the state is the government of the Republic of Serbia, that it all comes from that. Verica Barac, to remind you all, was the heroine of a Serbian political scene that spoke of the robbery of Serbia when no one else was allowed to talk about robbery privatisation, all that was happening. She started 24 controversial privatisations. I had the privilege and privilege of helping her in those cases. I worked later with the D.A.'s office and with the police on those cases. In all 24 cases, we found everything Verica Barac claimed. All these items were closed and ended up in a drawer, later and the Anti-Corruption Alliance threw out a report saying that all these items had been turned away. So none of them ended up the way Verica Baraq wrote it. I personally convinced that what she wrote was actually true, or we found it along with the wonderful inspectors police, working groups formed on these items. How do subsidies work with us? I'll tell you two things we discovered at the Department of Economy when I was a minister, which shows where the deficit is. The first one concerns the Development Fund. Two billion euros of our money have been dropped from the Development Fund, and we were looking at the beginning of the report from the Director of the Development Fund to see who they gave these loans to. She wrote a report saying that more than 20,000 loans were granted and that 61 employees run these 20,000 credit accounts. So the system was designed so it couldn't work. I stopped it from robbing money there, on average credits are given for five years. In the first year, everyone repays the loan, in the second year, half repays the loan, from the third year on, no one returns the loan. These are 2 billion euros in our money and loans have been divided by party lines and are usually followed by corruption, i.e. a party racket. We had businessmen coming to the Department of Business and saying they were asked for 30% of the rackets to get these subsidies. The second story concerns business subsidies. I'll tell you a story about Vršački vineyards. Vresak vineyards were to be privatised in 2013, before I became minister. In February, an estimate of the value of the assets was made. They estimated that they have a 5m-euro wine supply and a 17m-euro total of assets. This was an estimate of the value of Vrsak vineyard property. Then somewhere in July, in August of the month Dinkic proposed to the government in 2013, the government adopted one regulation that if an interested person shows up, if he does not raise his hand immediately the price goes half, if no one raises his hand on that second bidding goes immediately to the third where the starting price is a third. Thus, a Chinese investor who had been silenced by the first, silenced the second auction and bought Vršačka vineyards for five million euros, or should have bought it because we had broken the contract afterwards. Now let's take a look at it. So, they pay 5m euros, they get fivem euros in wine supplies and equipment, facilities and land for d. It was a deal and this isn't all. In addition, all Vršački vineyard employees were to be fired, so that the state would pay severance payments, and then the investor would hire the same workers and receive a grant of 6,000 euros per job. If you think this is all, that's where you're wrong. When they evaluated Vrsak vineyards in February, there were no grapes on chocolates. By September, around 5m euros worth of grapes and grapes grew. This is the privatisation of Vrsak vineyards that was to be implemented in August 2013, this has stopped my ministry. This is all very well known by trade unions and all employees of Vrsak vineyards. This is one of the models that's robbed the state. Subsidies are being thrown at about a billion euros annually. This is a situation where, for example, a domestic water heater manufacturer pays taxes, and then the state takes his taxes and pays his competition abroad to open up a job, shut down his job, and practically the way he creates economic growth. It doesn't work that way in any country in the world. These are the causes of the deficit, not pensions. So the 180m euros taken from the pensioners is just a drop in the sea compared to where the money is thrown. When we look at a few of these companies that are listed in the exposé, such as JAT or Jelizar, at JAT after the change, JAT achieved a loss of business in 2014 of 75m euros. I would, of course, like all Serbian citizens, wish that investment was good, that it works well, but unfortunately it is not. They received a 79m-euro grant from the state and thus fictitiously made a profit. So they're making a loss, the state that 79 million and this is clearly seen from financial reports, and then they're showing profits on paper. Last 2015, the loss was 45m euros, the state gave a 49m-euro grant, the subsidy is a gift, so that JAT, or "Er Serbia", could show a profit of 4m euros. This isn't a good economic policy. So the question is what doesn't work in that company and we want to change that, to focus on what's wrong, to remove it so the company stays profitable. Jelizara, for example, made a loss of 134m euros in 2014, received a 36m-euro grant, so that the loss turns out to be 98, and last 2015, this wonderful management, set up, made a loss of 144m euros. So combined when we look at the loss, it's 278m euros in ironworks when we take 2014 and 2015. To remind the pensioners, 180m euros were taken. How do you bring order into these companies? It is introduced with those ID cards that I started with, and these ID cards have unfortunately been abolished and have given up on them, where the property is listed, write down the obligations, like any host, to introduce order into the company. Afterwards, a business financial plan is being created, the company is being cleared of debts, people are being paid back their earnings and the internship is being linked and investors are being sought afterwards, not before, but after that. Because we haven't put the order anywhere, and we're having trouble privatizing, because no one's going to buy it. No one stands for the closure of the Ironworks, but we advocate the introduction of order first and to see what is worth and what is not. What happened at the end was that Zelizara was sold for 46m euros, i.e. it was not sold to Jelizara but to Jelizara's assets, Jelizara remained as a legal person and remained a 52 billion dinar debt in the Jelizara. That's about 450m euros over that and similar to JAT's, we expect taxpayers to take over. When we talk, there's a hairdresser who cuts houses and doesn't pay taxes, the problem is that people don't pay unreasonable taxes and, of course, it's illegal competition, they shouldn't do it, but people survive like that. The best incentive for domestic economy is tax cuts and contributions. It's a way to avoid the gray economy, it's a way to introduce order. Serbia is a wonderful country, it has smart people, it has a terrible system. Serbia does not need a leader, Serbia needs a system and equal rules for all, then smart people among us will succeed in this good system as well as in Germany to make added value and make...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1139	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1140	So, solutions are not foreign investors, solutions are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1141	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1142	I think the citizens of Serbia could now see that the policy they were talking about looked like, and someone asked me today why it was good that there were elections. I think this is one of the reasons why it's very important that we hold elections. Because someone with their daily, sometimes pointless, sometimes less senseless criticism would build people's trust, and people would think someone was professional and someone could do something about it. In the exposé, of course, we didn't hear anything, because he didn't even read it. We heard in the exposé that I wasn't talking about what I was talking about, because he wasn't listening at the time tweeting or something else he was doing or he was, not getting into other details. On the other hand, yesterday I read the text on 270 pages. I wrote it, got the Ministry's opinion, I wrote the opening conclusion, I fixed everything and I did everything and nobody ever wrote me texts, I write them, as you knew before. I don't know what that meant to you or what you needed, unlike the rest of you who wrote speeches and delivered when you were supposed to speak while you were in the Serbian government. We'll put that aside and that's fine. A man can't make it all. You're talking procedures and I've been listening to you all day. No procedure, no procedure, not one member, not one regulation, not one regulation, not one business, no business, no sublegal, no constitutional. You said I went somewhere else that I hadn't met with Serbs, when I asked what country it was, you all kept quiet. You were talking here today about what the job of the Prime Minister is and what the job of the Prime Minister isn't. First of all, speaking of details in Feketiæ, I was not president, but vice president of the government. I was doing something I'd do as a normal man. By the way, that's where I accidentally went, and this is where Sasha Antic was supposed to go, and I was even angry that I had to go there that day. So much for your pointless stories, your fiction about how something was planned somewhere, and I don't know what organized it. There was a terrible time, that people who were in cars, many of them could suffer less from me, many of them. I can take much more than you can imagine, and I've put up with that kind of fearsome cold and especially that wind. There was a bus, that kid was supposed to be transferred somewhere. There were few of us. I just did what anyone else would do. That's why you ran the annual campaign. You didn't do anything else. Why? Well, because you enjoyed sitting in a warm room and from there criticizing someone who wasn't in that warm room. It bothers you that I wore blankets for people we pulled out of flooded areas, yes, and that's the job of the prime minister, because the job of the prime minister is to be with his people, to help his people in every situation, in every place. You're in trouble with the toilets. I know it wasn't politics, and until it was politics, so until it was politics, that's exactly what was happening to us. We had a case that we had dirty toilets and that no one in any way actually cared about it. And then I said, nothing, we're making this action through the Public Investment Office and today, at this point we're informing you, 309 objects we're rebuilding, I think by the end of the year we'll already be able to increase that number to six hundred and next year, I was wrong, I thought we could be 1,000, but you know that by procedure it's not easy and it's much more complicated than it looks, but together with the next year we're going to have over 1,500 facilities, so, and health homes and infirmarys, and schools and hospitals and everything else we do, and I'm not talking about these big systems like the Clinical Center. Next, you said I was saying that citizens are lazy. It shows me that they didn't listen, because yesterday I was here unequivocally saying that the system of the '60s and '70s, socialist self-government, led us to lose our entrepreneurial spirit, and everything that happened to us in the '90s and the '70s, that we lost our working habits. I was very precise. I was just talking about the system, and Serbs are no worse people than anyone else. I don't have a racist theory to say we're better than someone else, but we're certainly not any worse. I'm being open, so I can tell you how much I think about a lot of things, so I am. That's why it bothers me when we boast unhappily and when you can go out 500 times, and I can't go out and you'll tell me how much more valuable and diligent you can work. You can't. I know that when you worked in the government. I happen to know that. Maybe you're the smartest person in the world. According to Deutsche the Great and the Americans I see it is, but I could never come up with those models. But, you see, I know exactly who works in the government, for every minister. I know exactly how much you worked. I've never talked about it, I've never talked about other things, and that's why people recognize each other. That's why no one will ever cooperate with you, no one, ever. There's no one you can find who really wants to cooperate with you, and everyone knows it and everyone in this room knows it. Even those who pat you on the shoulder laughed at you. They laughed at you when you talked about foreign investments. You've been talking nonsense. You were literally talking nonsense. You've been saying something that's impossible for anyone to understand. I'm not complaining about distractions either visually, either audio. I don't mind, just to see if you can hold that hand until I'm done without letting her down, if you're at least that valuable. So, I agree with that there are. Looks like you couldn't last 30 seconds. Dear friends, you've all seen, they're looking at the camera when the cameras shoot them and then they lift them up, and they're having a hard time holding a 50-g book in their hand. So, I'm not here for the transmission, I'm here for the history, but they are for the cameras and the transmissions. You say the problem is partocratism or partocratism, whatever you want. There's only one problem, so you're the best possible example of how it shouldn't work and how party power is abused. You are here, you will not believe, the association Enough from Belgrade, addressed with a request to rent the following business premises: Belgrade's business space on the 24th street of Bogdan Žerajić, business space in Belgrade, Radnička no. 54nd, second zone, and business space in Belgrade street Dimitri Tucovic No. 49th, first zone. The request states that the association was quite voluntary, non-governmental and non-profit association, I didn't know, founded on indefinite time to achieve goals, I don't know what kind, in all areas where something can be done etc. But the point is why they asked for it. Because when they seek as a political party, they have no discount on it, and because they are not a political party, because they are not a political party, because they are not a political party, because they are not a political party, then they can have 80% discount and so they wanted only those three business spaces to steal 80% of the money from the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. Fortunately, they're not allowed to do that. If you hadn't listened to what I was saying in Expose and you weren't interested in it at all, I saw what you were saying about the Law of Origin of Assets. You should have read my previous Exposes. You'd see that there's not a single word in that Expoze about the Law of Origin of Assets, and I've told you that many times. Come on, get up a little bit, you're standing a little bit, get up a little bit more. Now, listen to me, people. It is a good thing they brought a little entertainment and relaxation into the National Assembly. If nothing else, they were talking about great seriousness and great responsibility. It's good to have some fun and relaxation bring. So you didn't listen to what I was saying about the Law of Origin of Assets, because I didn't even mention the Law of Origin of Assets in Expose. I mentioned him yesterday. And yesterday I said I didn't mention him in the first Expoze, but that I talked about it later and that I was very unhappy that we didn't do something like that. What are you going to do? Everyone scratches where it it itches, and the first thing they get, it's the law of origin of property. You were talking about arranged systems. I agree, the U.S. is a very well-organized system, a very well-organized system. There's nothing more important about them, there's no greater value than paying taxes and there's no bigger problem than that. There's something you've got to be mad at. There's something you're not going to be able to do all day. You thought everyone would run off when you showed up. Is that what you expected? Oh, my God. So I hope I'm not forced to read, but let me tell you, the material I brought, people, is bigger than Expose, at least two or three times. Now, off the record, let's get back to the serious part for the citizens of Serbia. They are not particularly important, and they are not particularly important. Let's talk about something that's extremely important, because I see it becomes a mantra for everyone who doesn't know anything. I don't want to talk about other things, but I want to talk about next. That when you talk about "The Irons", you should tell the citizens of Serbia the next thing you know about "The Irons," it would cost us 100m euros. What you know, other Serbian citizens don't need to know, and you need to know that, and I'm sure you do. So, if we didn't bring the Chinese, 100 million euros cost us a turn and we have to pay for it. So the empty factory isn't zero dinars for us, that's what people need to know. And it's not zero workers, and we have them at this point 5,050 who are getting paid. We've got 5,000 other people working with them as co-operatives. I know you didn't care about those 10,000 people. We were lucky, with a lot of work and a struggle to make it happen. We would, therefore, pay an additional 100 million just to destroy our facilities at the Ironworks and we would bring in someone who had nothing, or minus 100 million of property, to get 46 million employees, 5,050 salaries and GDP growth and the most powerful factory in Serbia. That's what people in Serbia need to know. Because that's what you're talking about is the most common fog, like everyone else who talks about foreign investment. And these people in front of you know that. Everybody knows that. It is no accident that there are three or four serious political parties in Serbia. You don't get that in one or two days. Because it can't happen to serious people. It can happen on a personal level one way or another, but serious political parties can never speak that way. You're talking about foreign investors getting more. They don't win. They get exactly the same as their homework. Who makes water heaters for you? Who is it that manufactures water heaters in our country looking for subsidies without getting them? That he was looking for any incentives? Do you have a case? You don't have it. He's not anywhere. Here's "Bekament" works great. The company exports to Albania, exports to Croatia. They got everything they got and everybody else. What's the name of this other firm in Plana or Palanca or Smedereva, I don't know, they've got it all the same. Two more new companies are in, I mean, Leskovac and I don't know where, private ones, they also got it. Everyone's gonna get who's offering us a plan, who's gonna offer us a program. And don't go a billion euros, don't make it up. Don't make it up, a billion euros didn't go even during Fiat, because our commitments there were significantly less. But that's how it comes to you, because it's nice. You know, people 180, 200 million here, it's a little bit, because we're going to get a billion here. Don't say anything. And that's enough. It's a common scam and a simple fog, like everything else. It's time to get up, not for long and it'll be more interesting for people here in the O.R. Every time something hits him, they raise the Rules of Procedure, as if the Rules of Procedure would shut my mouth. Well, I'm not afraid of anything, I'm not afraid of you. I wasn't afraid when they threatened me in Brussels when they told me that I was almost everything and that I needed to know what I did when I refused that first Brussels deal, I'm not going to be afraid of you, of your inventions and your lies and everything you've told me here. So, I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know, since I have already answered you today for the constitutional court and for the pensions, I will now answer you for all the investments. No, I'll do that in the replica. So of course he doesn't understand Mr. Radulovic's contract that he could read about "Er Serbia". He doesn't understand and he can't understand, and maybe he won't. There's a little bit of it. Therefore, he does not know that he accounts for either net results or revenues from the transport of goods and mail, or operational revenues, or what is without the grant of operational income and this other income, what is our contractual obligation to invest as a majority partner in the company, and what is the contractual obligation of Etyhada, etc. So we haven't paid more than what our contractual obligation is. We managed to get the value of the airport today... Pick it up, little Rules of Procedure. So, they had, I'm sorry I didn't persecute, it's my fault, I'm sorry. So we had an airport worth 50m euros. Today it's worth the app front to get to 25 years straight 350 million. Can we, Vujovic, make 350 million? Pretty much. I'm talking about a real price, 350 plus a concession fee between 10 and 15 million euros each year, so you do the math. Of something that has failed, which has no value at all, we have made a golden coke of the Balkans, not only Serbia, but it is not worth it, you cannot admit it. You can't admit it because you need to find some model California or Canadian or I don't know what kind of weird thing to happen. There are no miracles here. Everything here is perfectly normal, everything completely visible and absolutely transparent. To answer what they told me what they were going to say on the side, about who criminals are, who aren't criminals, so I can't wait, just wait, so I see what they're going to say, and then we'll see who's a criminal and who's not responding to anything else. It is very important that people in Serbia know that without foreign investment there is no recovery. Our entrepreneurial tobacco at that level and that's why we insist on dual education, and in three, four, five years, if we can, be carriers of so-called. Smart industries, especially IT sector development carriers. No problem, we'd better get rid of the so-called. A lab of intense, labour-intense industries and getting closer to it. We can't choose today, we can't act differently. This is the only thing we can do and it's the only thing we do. They know that, but they're not particularly interested in saying what's true, because there's something in our country, which is that hate brings you points. Some newspapers wrote tomorrow, he says, "We pay that fans don't yell at Wolf's Gay." I tell 'em, today I draw 'em here, they just yell at Wolf's Gay all the time. They're not yelling at anything else. What are you gonna do? What do you want? When someone's driven by hate, when someone's managed by a lie, and that's the only thing that's possible. Anything to answer can't, and that's what your problem is, and it's a serious problem. As far as I can answer that, I'll answer that. I can't answer everything, but I want to thank you for the fact that at least you're here today. It would be good if you were yesterday, then you wouldn't be wrong about the Property Origin Act, you wouldn't be wrong about some other things, and as far as karo paper is concerned, whenever you're interested, come by, I'll show you myself, but I don't think it's for a parade or anyone else, because I think I have enough sense to write myself, I think I'm educated enough to write myself. On the other hand, let me tell you, who the hell are you? Please tell us some serious idea of what we need to do, tell us something we talked about in the exposé, anything. You said for twenty minutes that you didn't mention the exposés, that you didn't mention it in one word, except that your exposés were late. When you were elected for 24 hours, then you didn't mind, then everything was fine. I'm going to go race to the chair, then it was great, and then the procedures weren't overrun, with that procedure being overrun. What procedure has been affected? What member of the Constitution? What member of the law has been hit? What sublegal act? There's nothing. There's just something to say, just make something up. We're not worried that we made something up. You're talking about party ties. Look at what the lists look like. See what your party buddies are saying that were party buddies for seven days. Not what I'm saying, but your party colleagues. Is it "Decree Big" Wolf's Tabloid? "Dairy Great" says something against me every day, as you know. I don't know anyone from "Dairy Big." If they weren't inaccessible, telling not the truth, banging Americans about taxes, they don't know what taxes are. You know, and they don't know, so they made a mistake. I don't mind getting into that kind of debate, but it's always better to go back to the exposés and tell me what it is that you would do. It would be good if you commended the absence of a deficit because I know that you know how important it is and how good it is. It would be good if you had spoken of things politely, as others have spoken here at least about the deficit even though they criticized everything else. I have no problem, I'm very happy that you spoke today, and I hope that you will have the opportunity as often and as much as possible in the future, and I will look forward to not missing that opportunity every month at least once from here and that I can point out everything you said in the previous period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1143	Dear MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Srdjan Kružević as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandated-munite issues of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering the resignation which has been established by the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88, point 2 is replaced by the following: The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which MP Srdjan Kružević was elected on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1144	The demeaning of political opponents and insults is indeed bad manners and is a sign of great weakness. I'm not doing it. I think that's how you degrade the National Assembly. The fact that we have differences in what we think should be done is really no reason for you to address the MP in this way. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that insult is not allowed. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that you cannot speak personally of personal matters and the personal life of a MP. You're a guest here in the National Assembly, citizens will be able to see your exposure and this amount of insult you've brought down. This really isn't worthy of one prime minister. The prime minister would have to behave properly and talk about the subject. The fact that we have a difference with you about how economic policy should be conducted is not an insult and is not a reason to make the truths about personal life. And I could talk about yours, but I won't, it's really not for the National Assembly. (Alexander Wolf, from the scene: please come on.) I think you should behave and don't throw now, I didn't interrupt and I didn't agree with anything you said. We raise the Rules of Procedure the moment you break the Rules of Procedure, and that is a sign that you violate it, or you speak beyond the subject, or you insult the Messengers of the people. This shows how much you respect the rules of the system's institutions. The problem in Serbia is there is no system, there is only a leader. All independent institutions of the system have been destroyed. This also shows the situation in the judiciary, what happened in Sava Mali, it is one suspension of the rule of law, and the highlight of your disrespect is not to accept a lawsuit by the court, because since 2014, the court must not file a suit. That's not appropriate for one prime minister. I'm not insulting you, I'm not disrespecting you, I'm talking about procedures. This is very important, we need to get back to the core conversation. We can disagree, but we shouldn't be offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1145	MP Replica. This was on me, too. No offense was brought to your account. Not a single one. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1146	Just two things. Of course I didn't insult you, I didn't mention anyone in your family, I didn't mention anyone else, and you know I could, I don't. You were doing it where I couldn't answer you, the way gentlemen don't. And where I am to answer you keep your mouth shut as watered. That's the difference between you and me, which is why I'm not running away from the duel and I'm not gossiping about you and I don't say terrible things when you're not around to talk. Now let me show you what he said when you talk about data. He spoke earlier about the Fund for Development and Two Billion euros, Mr Radulovic. The balance sheet of the Development Fund is 140 billion dinars of everything and what are two billion euros, what is the story, where are these two billion? It doesn't matter. That's what we said on the way, anyway. No problem is not to tell the truth if it passes. Otherwise, if one billion euros could be saved on employees, that means 120,000 people were to be fired. This means that 24% of public sector employees would be fired. This is a serious topic and we should have talked about it, except nobody could translate it into Serbian citizens. Yes, Mr. Radulovic would fire 25% of people in the public sector, 25% of people in order to achieve what he said, along with what is false. If it is an insult to Mr Radulovic that I only mentioned, I did not even ask if you would pay and when you will pay, which I only mentioned tax, which is the subject of the whole public in Serbia, I am sorry, so I probably made a mistake. I'm counting on it to be a matter of paying taxes... I had experience when I was late in paying a few years ago for an info or something, I paid dearly for it, right, remember, that's when you ran that campaign against me. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: I'll talk about it later.) So I paid dearly. I had an account of 80,000 dinars, something like that, what kind of black bill of a million and 69,000 dollars? Where do people get a million and 69,000 dollars? And that's just for taxes. But what's more important is that today we've been discussing both foreign investors and the Development Fund, which wasn't my idea, which I've always had with the bank, the development and everything else, because it's true that it's the place for possible abuses and it's the only thing that isn't true. I think the citizens today could understand well and who understands what are the things we can and must change. Don't have any illusion, no matter what you say, and that's acceptable to the state, I'll always say it's acceptable and that's okay. I won't mind all the personal hatred you've spread against me and my family, because that makes me different from you. The second you say it, I don't raise my Rules of Procedure, and I don't get as nervous as you are. You relaxed me and cheered me up. I've had a hard and hard day until this moment, almost 12, 11 hours here, I've had to answer everyone, and at one point I didn't have as much fun as in dialogue and conversation with you. Thank you for that, and I wish you a lot of success in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1147	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I look at these smiling tan faces, I believe it's acquired in agriculture, but I doubt it. I think that's where some of the money that was robbed by our citizens got stuck. While our citizens barely survive, it is obvious that some live very well on the white seas. I don't see Balsha, she must be in the Maldives, there's a problem there with some yellow duck, how many stars there are, I don't know, but it's almost safe in the Maldives. Brana Crncevic said "The speech is a gift, silence is even bigger." I think that after my colleague from the village of Stajčevci, from the organisation "They never had enough" that the best confirmation that Brana Crnchevic was right is better off silent than speaking. I have no objection to what my colleague is, whether it may be an injury to the menu, Madam Chairman or Mr. Chairman, I ask you to warn those from "They've never had enough" that they do not interfere with the speaker in this way. First, they can't do that to me, I can't fool myself so easily, and maybe there wasn't enough ale peppers in the bean spray in that menu injury. Well, those from the company, as it is called "Kradulovic Rodney and Delboj companies", established and cruelly punished waiters and chefs. I hear they're going to empty that mess. I'm not going to the cafeteria anymore. I haven't had enough of the cafeteria, I've had enough of those from "They've never had enough" and the bullying of waiters and cooks. I heard he wants to... There he is. Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna need you to extend this time. First, I ask you to turn off the ventilation, if they're already waving these Rules of Procedure, to be energy efficient. To save some money, some use of them. Wave a little faster. Wave a little more often, but please, let's save energy, since we already have a few fan washes here, which do it successfully. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I realized that my colleague, call the economist, here they run, what to do, the truth hurts, I don't think he's read the exposés, for the simple reason he's running now, and the second I don't think he reads anything longer than a menu in this assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have nothing against him turning Americans over to a million euros. I don't blame him for that. I resent him for turning us around for millions, and here's how. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can you be in 15 to 18 parliaments today at the same time at 15 different destinations? Can you do that? Could you, like, at the same time run 15 cars on 15 different roads? You can't, but you see he could manage 15 firms as a bankruptcy manager, at the same time at 15 different destinations and receive one fee for each of them. Only from the BK company for four companies received 8,000 euros per month. And that's why when I say I don't mind him, because the Americans are up for a million, but to blame him for turning us into millions. He wasn't a bankruptcy manager, to help himself, but to help the court. He was supposed to make peace with the trustees. He was supposed to take care of those poor people, the workers, who lost their flats at Delta Legal. He didn't make sense of the trustees, he had self-sacrifice, godfather, relatives, etc. He's talking about partocratism. We chose him here as a minister, and then he started making a party in the government. And now a man like that is telling us about the party, he didn't even register it as a party, and I know why. First it takes 10,000 signatures or a thousand if it wants to be a minority. Since he has several citizenships, and I don't blame him for that, he could choose whether he would be Canadian, American or Mojican, but he could choose. But he founded the so-called. an NGO I see has grown into an anti-government organization. Why? Because NGOs are not in control of the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's one thing. Number two. NGOs, unlike political parties, can receive money from abroad. Political parties cannot do so even if they do so are deleted from the register. That's why that leader from there was never enough for them, and I'll add, none of them sweated, made a lot of money on 14 firms in which he was bankrupt. As he founded the game, just a moment, I'll show you now. He writes as a minister to members of his NGO, an anti-government organisation -- mine and Cvian's parliamentary group, it writes ahead of the 2014 election, will certainly be part of the future ruling coalition, as the IMF and Americans have made it a condition for Vukic. That's what he writes, I've increased it a little, as a minister, the one that's against partocracies. That's what it says to the members of your party. He says - I should take over, reunited, the Ministry of Business and Finance, and my closest associate, best man A.S., not to speak my whole name, there's somewhere, that's this list that's without gods, full of godmothers, shrews, etc., you said, well. A.S. and my closest associate, A.S., as governor of the NBS after Jorgenka Tabakovic, after the election is named ambassador. It is a clear desire for Americans to want their reliable people in two key places in the new Serbian government. Gentlemen of the Americans, if this is true, and it was supposed to turn you around, and if you thought that if you put him here to give you back what money you owed there, then you made a terrible mistake, and we apologize for not choosing him again to be the Minister of General People's Expansion. I believe this isn't true, but gentlemen of the Americans, if this is true, you really fell to the low branches. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were expecting from an electric engineer, if you were expecting from an economist, a self-called economist to be able to make a good minister, Mr. Dacic isn't here, he says he suggested it, it's just like if a clown puts a crown and expects a king. That's impossible. For these reasons, those who wave to the Rules of Procedure began not to hate power but to hate the state. They and these other tan state hate it, but I have to admit they loved it, but only to rob it. I'm not here to defend power, I'm here to defend the state. We've been through two periods. One period when we were threatened by the second period from 2000 to 2012, and in Vojvodina until 2016, this is the second period when we were brutally stolen from the inside. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the current and future Prime Minister, the current and future ministers, I defend the state for the simple reason that certain people and centres who have threatened us in the 1990s want to threaten us again and through those who stole us from 2000 to 2012. Various manifestations are being performed. They're not interested in power in the election. They are not interested in the Assembly, as you can see, they are interested in power without choice, unrest and violence. For them, the government was won by the unrest and violence of democracy, and the power won in the elections, the government formed in the assembly, is an autocracy and dictatorship for them. I'd like to talk about birth and agriculture, and I think it's mutually related. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are 106 fewer of us than yesterday. Tomorrow there will be 106 of our citizens less than today. While we're sitting here, there's less than 50 to 60 of our citizens. Serbia is empty. When we take and move 50 people, our citizen book gets thinner in favour of the book of the dead and the books of the evicted. For these reasons, I would like to commend that part to be taken into account for the first time, because it directly threatens the village, and we in this group have two agricultural parties, two peasant parties. Of the 4,500 settlements, 200 villages have disappeared. A thousand villages have less than 100 inhabitants, which means our village will be extinct daily. For these reasons, I would also like to commend the government, given that the question, it is not agriculture and villages, it is a matter of security, it is a matter of sovereignty. The territory is empty and the white plague is the most efficient ethnic cleansing. When the territories are empty, they will be inhabited by some other peoples. Aggression to cradles, we've already experienced, is the most successful aggression. For these reasons, and for the third time, it is up to the government, the first government to decide to have a minister or minister for the issues. Those who speak of agriculture and the village today have sent sons to the city. You can't have young people in the country, and you can send sons and daughters into town. You can't have sister-in-laws in the country, and you can't send your daughters into town. You can't talk about genetically modified organisms when I know it's a propaganda action. One is production, the other is traffic. You have made such a situation that they cannot be produced in Serbia, but can be introduced uncontrollably through meat, milk and other products. So your action, which you think is patriotic, is anti-patriotic. It reads: Better to introduce it than to produce it here. I am not a proponent of the production of genetically modified organisms, but I must tell you that entering the World Trade Organization does not necessarily mean producing genetically modified or even traffic. From case to case, it is suspended, banned, excitated. It's not just us, it's not just us, it's more countries. But let me tell you how much it's been paid, when these reigns are tanned. So on January 13, 2011, the advocate got it, the euro was between 101 and 104 dinars during that year, 2.548,346,46. On September 22nd, the minister received 1,826,256.00 dinars from the same register, on October 28, 1.500,000 and on December 26, 80,039,00 dinars. In total, he received 5,954,665,000 dinars, in the year Boris Tadic said we would adopt new genetic methods of food production. So, he was on their payroll, he was twice in America, and today he's a patriot for defending himself against genetically modified organisms, with them being introduced, but they couldn't be produced. Ladies and gentlemen, if I don't, we will choose the government, you will be the future ministers, the prime minister will be the Prime Minister again, and that's what makes me happy. The state is a serious matter and it is not rooted so easily. When we make a state, a state of free and brave, a state of ability, when we put it on our feet economically, we will be respected by those who have not respected us so far. I will come out pleased and go to my village, to Nova Karlovac, to pass between Emperor Dushan and Karadjordje, to go to my field and squeeze my chest of land and say symbolically that I am glad that Serbia is rising, which is no longer crawling, as it rises. I recommend that you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and of the Ministers, do the same, press and protect and promote this country firmly, because it is valued not by how the government is being ruled, but by how the country is being promoted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I tell you not to mind the criticisms of empty people and empty theories full of yourself. Dostoevsky said – if you go down the road and you stop at every dog that barks with stones, you will never reach the finish line. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, they are not worthy, do not stop. They're not worth the time, they're not worth the stone. They're not worth the time, they're not worth the stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1149	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1150	Dear Mr. Vukicu, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the programme you presented to the National Assembly and candidates for ministers in the new government of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also because of my fellow MPs, I would like to point out that the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic, I am free to say, a kind of scientific work, because Alexander Vukic, in his exposé, touched the absolute authority of every ministry, or every minister in the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, and no authority of any ministry has missed this exposé. Therefore, this exposure has more pages than any exposés that have been read or announced in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2001 to 2008. Because mostly all the Prime Ministers, or all the Prime Ministers of the Government's assembly, understood the work as purely formal, to appear in the National Assembly, know that they had a congregation majority, and then read a few pages of what they considered to be the programme and policy of the future government. In 2001, Zoran Djindjic had exhibitions on 13 and a half pages, Zoran Zivkovic, in 2003, on six and a half pages, Kostunica was the first time he put the government together on nine pages, the second time he composed the government on ten and a half pages, and Mirko Cvetkovic on eight and a half pages. Mr. Alexander Vukic's exposé is, in short version, divided by the MPs on 67 pages. It is the best possible programme for the progress of the Republic of Serbia over the next four years. The SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the government's programme and composition, according to Mr Vukic, for at least two reasons. First of all, the government led by Aleksandar Vukic and the new government he will also lead has achieved at least two major goals. The first is to establish macroeconomic stability in the country and establish order in the public finances system. Mr. Vukic and his government went after something that went to little in Serbian economic history. I'm not saying I know all about Serbian history, but I do know something. What went after Alexander Vukic and his team, it went hand in hand sometime in the late 19th century to Cedomil Mijatovic, who was the finance minister at the time of Milan and Alexander Obrenovic, whom we Serbs unfairly portrayed as bad rulers, and who were among the most successful rulers in Serbian history, because at that time the Serbian dinar was worth as much as the French franc and because at the time of Obrenovic, we experienced that even Romanian King Karol I said - I want to make Serbia out of Romania. Serbia is still on the road today. We used to be the money of Europe and all of us turned our heads. Today, many countries in Europe, even those in the EU, would want to be like Serbia, because they know that Serbia is a country of order, law, economic and political stability. This is the first reason why the SNS parliamentary group will support the government's programme and composition, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and the second reason is that Mr. Vukic managed to get this small Serbian ship through Scylla and Haribde of the modern world without any damage. That's what we Serbs in history rarely do when it comes to hand. We Serbs have one twisted consciousness that has been built for centuries, that the fate of the world depends on us and that the fate of the great powers depends on us and that only we Serbs can save humanity and that no one else in the world can do it. We thought it in 1914, we thought it in 1941, we thought it in 1991, and whenever we thought that the fate of the world depended on us and that small Serbian ark depends on stability in international relations, we paid it for hundreds of thousands and millions of Serbian heads. It's not happening this time. In a situation where the political geography of the modern world has changed completely, in a situation where you have, unfortunately, terrorist attacks at the very heart of Europe, Serbia is stable, Serbia is calm, our children sleep peacefully. It's a little bit of a hand in today's Europe. It went after Alexander Vukic and his government, and I believe it will follow their hand tomorrow when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia votes the new government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Alexander Vukic. Because we believe in a better, more advanced, safer Serbia, because we want... I don't know why you're winning, Mr. Mircic, you've been complaining that you don't have a car sticker, you'll get it as much as tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Mircic, for your kind words. So, because our children are sleeping peacefully and because I want my children to continue to sleep peacefully and all the children in Serbia, you, Mr. Vukic, you and your cabinet, tomorrow to receive unreserved support from the SNS Group and within us, the SNS MPs, will have a faithful and reliable ally to implement all those measures that you have foreseen in your exposé, so that Serbia will be even better in the next four years, even more successful than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1151	The word has the term of office of Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1152	It wouldn't be fair if I didn't thank you for your support and say that I'm a little bit satisfied somewhere, as you know, never entirely, with the fact that the largest number, not only the largest number, but also the highest percentage, of the parliamentary groups present, are SNS MPs here. So, and it is clear that we will have to be even more disciplined in the future and much more to change about ourselves, but that is how we show, and that is why you today have shown responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens do not pay even the members of the government that they are not in their government and that they are not doing their job, as they do not pay MPs to be out of the hall at the moment we have a plenary session. I'm pleased that you've been more disciplined and responsible. Some of them didn't want to listen yesterday, they had a hard time sitting, they came here today to make arguments and figures, and you saw that we literally denied every number to them, literally every number. Everything they said couldn't go through. At the end of this, as we would call it, although there is no more principle and debate in particular on this subject, the principle debate will continue, but by the parliamentary groups, the heads of parliament clubs have ended, I want to say that I am very pleased that we have not only had an equal approach, it seems to me that there have been more leaders of opposition groups, and there have been advantages, although they have only five or six MPs, but that we have not given up for a single second because we knew, not because we are only braver or because we want to conflict politically, but it is important that we do not give up because it shows our strength, the strength of our ideas, the strength of our definitions, our security that we are doing a good thing for our country, our belief that we are on a good path and our faith that Serbia can do even better and that Serbia can do even more. You saw that those I know well, how much time they spent in the government and how much they worked, when I say, "I know you, you can't do much," they have nothing to say. Because I know, they worked with me. There are people I've worked with that I don't want to say because I can't say. That's why I believe what I'm saying, because whether someone is bigger or smaller, I'm going to tell the truth. In this fight, when we usually come to answer to the National Assembly, there will be things where you have to say, yes, it's okay, you're right. But we had a lot of arguments, a lot of things that we could boast about, but there were a lot of things that we were criticizing ourselves, and it's good that we heard the words of criticism today on certain issues, and we're going to have to make it right. It is therefore important that we also pass the law on the origin of property and many other laws that we have talked about today. Because by doing one more thing, don't forget, it's not a law of revenge, it's not a law against anyone, not against any tycoon or any politician or anyone, it's a law that we're going to do that that whoever has "porshe" and "feraria", which I already spoke about in my exposé, can't report to the state of Serbia that he's on a minimal and he's receiving 22,000 dinars, because it takes 22,000 dinars to get 22 years to buy it, without eating in the meantime and not drinking water, which isn't real, you'll agree, and more than that. So, by doing that, we're going to get some people out of the gray zone, I'd rather say black than gray zones, into legal and regular flows. Someone's gonna have to report their receipts. We have an average salary to say 405 euros. She's not, the average profit is 405 euros, it's bigger. Because you have literally 30 or 40 percent of the employers who pay the minimum wage to pay the state a minimum tax because it's going to be released by 11 grand, and I don't know what it's all about, and then in cash they do up to 30, 40 and 50 grand. We all know that in Serbia, and we all talk about it. This, with the increase in minimum earnings, which is good news for the poorest workers, is going to change that as much as possible. Today I'm desperate for another reason I haven't told you. I got a report from the IRS in the Serbian government this morning. I'm getting a report from the tax administration that went into control of dozens of restaurants in seven or eight cities in Serbia. Let's say, of the 90 objects, 83-84 are closed due to lack of traffic through the fiscal register, another inspection due to the non-reporting of workers, etc. So, we, people, are talking about a huge tax ejaculation and a lot more income that we can have, even though our incomes are much better than they were before. We have to ask every citizen to look for a fiscal account in every place. They have nothing to ask you – do you pay with a card or pay with cash, he brings you a fiscal bill, and you pay whatever you want. Only if you have to type in the number can it ask you what your number is or type it yourself, if it's not on your signature. But that's what people need to know, and we need to know about it in every place. It's something that we have to talk about everywhere and people need to know, because you cheated on yourself when you don't get a fiscal bill, because you're going to have a less school, you're going to have a less time, you're going to have a hospital less. We finance hospitals and schools from that money, and we have no other way to finance it. We can't find the money on the other side, but if you get a list of 90 objects, of which 84 are before closing, and that's exactly what those where there's something right now, stronger traffic, are mountains, spas, etc., is that possible? Is it possible that we can't raise ourselves? We have a lower VAT than 90% of the countries around it. Only Bulgaria has 20%. For catering facilities, Romania is lower and there is no one lower. Croatia and Hungary 25, 27%. My friend Orvan is cutting down on restaurants right now, and now I'm watching him do it. If that's good, like we took over the tourist vouchers from Finch, we'll take over some other ideas, it's not a problem. But we need to be more disciplined. You know what they say about us - well, let it go, I screwed up the country. Well, you didn't screw up the state, you screwed up yourself. The country is you. Your country is your plane, and your way, and your street, and everything else. In the end, you're asking for it from the state. The state is also a police officer who's watching over you. And here, now, some people with real rebellion, from Gabriel Principe Street in Belgrade, because their unsanitary living conditions, because of other things, and they didn't agree, because of the great presence of migrants where you can't keep people in a cage, and then people feel insecure, insecure, and now we're struggling with what to do. But to hire cops and to get cops to work, someone has to pay for them. Well, when you don't take the fiscal bill, they're not paid. That's all people need to understand, that you fiscally did not help someone, but you destroyed yourself. I took that example just to see how undisciplined we are toward ourselves. They won't in Germany, Switzerland, Austria even think about doing it, they won't think. There's no such culture. Well, the state wouldn't let me. Oh, she gave it to you. It's not true she didn't give it to you. She gave it to you, she gave it to each of us a lot, and we all went to school a lot cheaper, and I'm not gonna say it for free, because there's no free schooling. Schooled much cheaper than anywhere else in the world, that's what the state paid for. She paid us both roads and hospitals and a lot of other things. We treat ourselves badly. We have problems, the state mostly pays. I don't count those who go to privates and pay cash. In order for the state to function, we need to be disciplined and we need to respect that state. What do you think makes some people uncomfortable when you talk about certain topics? They're capable of saying things when you're not here and you're not in a position to stand up. And when I'm here and I'm able to answer, well, hey. It's easy to hit a bag, and it's not easy to hit, not get in the ring and fight. That is why Serbia is the most important to us and that is why we must change it with ourselves if we succeed. If we fail, we will not be the first or the last people to slowly lose everything he has acquired for centuries. That's why I'm grateful for your discipline and I'm grateful for your combat. Because you showed that you weren't a punching bag and that you showed that you were able to fight for your country and that you weren't able to calculate on that point. Thank you again, and I'm sorry if I took a lot of time off for you and everybody else today, but I also wanted to show that I'm not going to let anyone insult us, that someone is saying the worst possible things and that it's gone without an answer and that he thinks we're very afraid of them and that we can't answer any of the lies. You heard a little before, he says, two billion euros, then you show that it's a few times smaller and there's no answer, and no one's worried, so we agreed, so we made it up. No problem, we'll do it another 5,000 times, so for everything else. They talk about some criminals all the time, and I don't know what, when I say -- so come on, talk about it, yes, but when I'm not there. When they're alone. Since I've heard these ridiculous and false stories, about how my brother took my restaurant, about how he owns some farm land he's never even been to, he doesn't even know where he is, he has no idea what it is, to, I don't know, the worst possible insults and worst possible lies. You want me to remind you that for a while they've been telling you that Serbia has 130,000 cops, how Chinese drugs are bad because they're for little people? How much more with those lies. You laugh, you don't remember it, Marjan remembers, that said Dragan Vesenov, even throwing away some drugs that Verica said because they said, the Chinese are making drugs, they're not for us, they're for little people. You can believe it. And why did they do that? Because they say the Chinese will vote for one political option, so they bring them here. What madness we've been going through. That's why I won't let them go crazy without an answer. And that's why I'm here and I patiently answer every insult, every word they say, and I won't give it up. And what I can promise you is that I'm going to fight all the time and it won't be hard for me to come to the National Assembly at least once a month to answer, even though none of the previous prime ministers did it that way and didn't come so much. Because I want to show that we're ready for dialogue, that we're ready for duels, but we're ready for real duels, and there's no problem, so let's see whose arguments are stronger. Oh, not that, we're gonna say something about someone who doesn't have one. When I talk, I talk about Serbia, and I never talk about anyone else when I'm alone. I only speak of them when I answer in their presence and answer and no more, and in that I am different. That's how gentlemen behave, that's how political gentlemen behave. And those who hold on to it, they have a chance in politics, and those who act in principle, strike in a sack, while there is no adversary, and when he flees there, he retreats more quickly. You believe me in politics won't work. That's why I'm pleased that you're the one who dared to defend our positions and that you didn't give in even though everyone predicted a bad fate by saying that we would fail, disappear, ruin us. We saw today as the day went by, so some Serbian citizens have enough arguments to assess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1153	Since there is no longer a list of the heads of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to a debate in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1154	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, candidates for members of the government, the chairman, individuals, families, communities that have the capacity to deal, have a future. The Bosniak Democratic Union of Sandzak reached an agreement with the SNS to work together to open a new site in Bosniak-Serbian relations. This would mean that members of my people in this country at all levels of government, institutions in the institution will have the opportunity to participate equally in their own quality with equal conditions. This would mean that we will jointly make every effort necessary to definitely what has marked our past, and that is more than a hundred years of occasional conflicts, unfortunately, with numerous crimes and genocide, that we will try to use our past as energy for the future in terms of teaching so that this will never happen again. We're sick of relationships where we're going to think of each other as a problem, even a danger. We're sick of relationships where they're going to call us Turks, and we're going to call them Vlassima or any other names, especially in absentia, and when we meet up with a little bit of courtoasia something nicer. I think we, especially our future generations, have the right to a different future. I know it won't be easy, but I firmly believe it, so I came and elected to this Parliament as a representative of my people and of all the citizens who voted me and my colleague to give our hand and give a chance for a different future. We agreed to work together to remove all anomalies in our relationship, that the Serb majority people, or its members, when they hear the notion of Sandzak with all that it means, do not see danger and concern for their country. I want my people and my countrymen to see no danger and some kind of usurpation when they hear the word and the notion of Serbia. I think it's possible for the common force to change our future on the basis of an agreement. We agreed to work together in the field of improving education, improving individual and collective rights in this country, working together in the field of the Pacificization of society, because we are witnessing that violence and the culture of violence are emerging everywhere. We agreed to work on reconciliation policies, we agreed to work together against crime and corruption throughout the country, especially in Sandzak, where several drug cartels have been dominated for decades. At these values and principles... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1155	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1156	... And for my five minutes, I would like to announce that the People's MPs of the Bosniak Democratic Community will give their support to this government. True, if we were in a position of selectively maybe two candidates wouldn't get our support, but since it's voted in the package we'll vote for the offered composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1157	Thank you. The word has the term of office of Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1158	I just want to say a few words. Of course, it is very important that we have, however you baptize it, in the region of Raška, Sandzak or in Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Varoshi, Priboj, Prijepolje, it is important that your relationships be better and it is important that we talk. We, when we started talking to Albanians, people were saying -- so no deal was made either, second or third. As much as we can complain of countless things today and say that Serbs are threatened especially in the Metochian villages where they return to the east of Kline, the situation is incomparably better, these attacks are rare, incidents too. It's important for us to talk. We want you to feel the Republic of Serbia as your country, as we Bosniaks want us to feel as friendly and very close to the people. I've said it a few times, I've talked to Rasim about it, and I've talked to you about it many times before. I don't think Serbs and Bosniaks can live next to each other as we can with some other peoples. We're going to have to live with each other and not for the next year or two, for the next five years, but we're going to have to do it for the next hundred years. Anything else would be a disaster for both Serbs and Muslims. I have no illusions about that. I've heard countless suggestions as you say on this side of us and on that side of yours. None of them were particularly smart, especially since I knew how foolish these proposals could destroy years of life and how much they could destroy entire nations and countries. We will look and continue to invest both in Sjenica and Tutin, and in Pazar, and in Prijepolje, and in Priboj, and in Varoš, as well as in other parts of Serbia, and I think that in the previous period, Rasim, we seem to have invested more than previously in Pazar. Of course that's not enough. I know how many roads are missing and I know the Bosniaks rarely think it's because we don't want to connect Bosniak villages, that's not the reason. We have the same problem with Serbian villages. Thousands of miles of asphalt are missing, but we will look to see that we invest here and we want all Bosniaks to be satisfied and we, as Government, will do our best, and I believe that on this issue, which is a key issue, which is not a question of political parties or anything else, we will be able to make compromises and agreements, but above all, that we can always talk. In that sense, I am very grateful for your discussion tonight. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1159	On what grounds, Mr. Zukorlic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1160	I'd just like one little intervention. I would ask the prime minister, as well as all other MPs, that when we consider the Bosniaks' ethnic decree to use Bosniaks, if we're going to talk about the religious category, then let's tell the Muslims. I think it's very important that we be precise because of the spirit of dialogue, reconciliation and trust. We've seen very often the specifics, the appointments, cause a variety of negative reflections, so I'd like to ask that we have that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1161	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1162	Dear citizens, if anyone is watching something on the Internet after TV broadcasts of course are gone, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a hundred days since the election and more than a hundred days and here we'll probably get the government tomorrow. Citizens voted, some parties got most, it's perfectly natural for them to form a government. The most normal is for the Prime Minister to be the president of the largest party in the coalition. It's all normal. It's perfectly normal to write the government's work plan, that the prime minister give his exposés, and that's all right. There are some things that aren't normal. There's no reason to wait a hundred days if someone has a dominant majority after the election. The citizens voted that they voted so alive, after the vote there was no regret for at least a few years, but it's completely pointless to write exposés of two hundred, three hundred, six pages just to last six hours. What's the point of that? Where in the world did any prime minister read his exposés for several hours? That's completely pointless. None of the MPs present could remember more than 5% of that. To be that in writing it's totally fine, but to read it, it's a completely pointless thing. What happened? It happened that this is another proof of politics - the state, it's me. That's what we hear in every sentence -- I pay for pensioners, I pay for workers, I pay for Sartid, I pay for highway work. No, on the contrary, it is a budget that is filled with money from citizens of Serbia, and the obligation of someone who is currently the highest civil servant or official is to do so in the best possible way. Smart people don't talk about their brains, brave people don't talk about their courage, honest people don't talk about their honor, honest people don't talk about their honesty. Security is one subject that is in the exposé and that is, of course, an important topic. Question again is, what about the helicopter? It's nobody's fault. It's been over a year, nobody's to blame. Barracks, the barracks were knocked down by assholes, fools and fools from the city government, quoting the mandar who said that almost 100 days ago. Tell us who these people are, so we know who those fools are and get punished, of course. I said last time you had in your proposal a minister mentioned in the case files in the trial of the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, it is repeated today. You also have a candidate for the foreign minister who took pictures in America the other day without knowing, but that's no excuse, with the leader of the largest criminal clan on the continent. The question is, why do we have daily attacks on the Nautilus from government officials? It's not security. Patriotism is about that. Don't defend the Serbs anymore. Where you defended the Serbs, there is no more Serbs. Of course there is no new "Storms" because no one can banish Serbs from Serbia, and "Storm" has already passed. Economy, we have the lowest wages in the region. We have the biggest debt, the least investment this year, the worst roads, the worst schools, the worst railroads, the worst hospitals. Tado is the state of our economy if the deficit is reduced or smaller than ever. Oh, God, that's right. It's only one parameter. I have proposed the Government Act where amendments to Article 11 are required, so that before the government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. I don't know why anyone's afraid of that. It's a perfectly normal thing. Finally, it's been talking for decades, even in the last few years about the Law of Origin of Assets. Bring him, of course, I can't wait, but I'll just give a piece of advice to the prime minister. In an existing law, called the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, there are enough mechanisms to examine the origin of any property. So you have a member of 42, 45, and some other members of the IRS to call a citizen and ask him – where are you from, what are these sources of funding for that and that? Why isn't that used? That's a question for all of you. I wish you successful work. Of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1163	You're bringing the end, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1164	But I'm afraid it won't happen as it has been the past two or three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1165	The word has the term of office of Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1166	I didn't even think I'd answer, but I'll do it again, first of all, because of the fact that I won't let innocent people get muddy all the time. They don't even know why, but that's probably something that's grown to their heart. The helicopters they mentioned don't know what to say. I'll remind the citizens, they were making up how Zlatibor Loncar was waiting at the airport with reporters. That's what they lied about with certain public services. There isn't a lie they haven't told. The D.A. made a decision. Don't take down this country's legal order, pressure the prosecutors to change their decisions, or I don't know what they're doing, because the prosecutors have made their decision and unequivocally said there's no criminal-legal responsibility. You requested a report from the Military Commission. When you received the report from the Military Commission, you were disturbed by the Military Commission report. Whatever is done, it all bothers you if it's not in line with what you expect, unless it's in line with what you think is the only important solution and it's the only thing that matters. Team up and by the truth, team up by argument. You say, "An honest man doesn't talk about honesty, he doesn't talk about honor." I'll just mention the two things you were talking about today. There's one tonight, one today. You were talking about health and health care. Now draw your own conclusions. You spoke at a press conference today and tonight you were talking about me talking so much and so much just to measure something. No, I spoke because I felt it was important to come up with a serious and responsible plan and a programme in front of the citizens of Serbia, because my plan and programme needed many days and nights to be done. Your six pages could have been done in seven minutes. That's how much I could write out with my hand. Fortunately, that's how long you've been in the position of Prime Minister. I guess according to the exposé, that's how long the term of office is. But what I wanted to tell you today, you said in that measurement that men must measure some other things in that way and that way in youth. Is that about honesty and honor? Well, who's talking about it exactly? Only that people in Serbia know what they are doing and what they are doing and what they are doing and what they are doing is more pronounced, so much will this relationship be just like this. Of all the arguments, we've heard that our investments are the least. It's a coincidence that our investments are the biggest, except you don't know anything about it, but what I'm going to tell you. It's not worth adding anything. I wish you a lot of success and successful work, and I'm sorry that I even volunteered to answer anything. I'm not even sure it made much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1167	Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1168	Replica. Thank you. I've talked about a lot of things, but I'll tell you again. First, the fact that Mr. Lonchar was at the airport the night the helicopter fell says in the military's file. There's a transcript of a command tower conversation or what's called a tower and crew. That's what it says, and it was published on the Ministry of Defense website. I got it. I can give it to you. It says precisely - the minister is on Surcin, waiting for you. I was just monitoring the communication. That's what it says. Check with the Department of Defense. No investments, of course, no investments. There is nothing about big announcements, that we are not talking about "Icarbus" and "Mercedes", that we are not talking about the "Beograda on Water" tower taking over Belgrade, that it will be finished first by the end of this year. That's your statement, too. That you have investments that the Chinese are coming, they can't wait to start working. Nothing is done in Sartide more than it has done so far, and the same management that you have brought and which has made the biggest debts in the history of this Sartida. You were talking about hiring. 15 years ago, the number of unemployed people in Serbia was 736,000. You said today it's seven hundred five, six thousand. In 15 years, 30,000 people, I'm sorry, that can't be a good result. It would be very nice if Serbia could live in that world of yours where you live, where you think you're the only one who's smart and that you can share who's smart who's not, who knows something, and that you know everything. I'm sorry, it's not normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1169	Two minutes, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1170	And as for the length, I said that if someone comes down... To measure the length, that's what men do when they're younger. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1171	The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1172	I don't know if you've heard this talk, but it's a good thing people heard it. I didn't do it, Mr. Zivkovic. Those bar tricks of yours... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Which? But don't shout and don't interrupt me. Those bar tricks where you measure the length, I didn't measure the length. I measured my mind. But everyone seems to measure what they have, and the question is, what is it? To answer, you heard me well. And at the public service they said that Loncar was there with the press to take pictures, and being alone, that's his job, that as a health minister, he waits for a child. But you didn't listen to what I was saying. They said he was there the whole time with the press, that he set it up for painting and for his own promotion. You lied about why he was there. That's what you started the whole story on. All organized by Minister Lonchar, he asked for a child. It's completely logical, he's the Minister of Health. The baby dies, the baby needs to be saved, and she says – please, can you send a helicopter. And you said he was with the press to take a picture, and there were no reporters. Well, that's the point. Your problem is that your street tricks, your boasts, don't pass on to those people who have the courage to stand up to such arrogant people. As long as I'm alive, I'll have the courage to stand up to you. I've never been afraid of you. I'm not afraid of you today. And I won't be afraid of you tomorrow. Never for life. One more thing about Icarbus. "Icarbus", unlike your time when you destroyed it, works today. I can't say we're absolutely happy, but it works, it produces, it pays the wages. As far as the tower is concerned, it's being built. Welcome to Belgrade on the water to see how nice it is there. Much nicer than what you left to the citizens of Nis. Much nicer than what you left for the citizens of Serbia. Please go for a walk and enjoy yourself. There you can measure beauty, have something better to measure. As for Sartida, unlike those who left us an empty factory, a wasteland, 5,000 people without a job, unlike those who told us – this factory can never work, we, you see, have found the Chinese who work there and who will work there. And we have nothing to do with it anymore, except have connections that we're happy about the fact that 5,050 people are working and that another 5,000 cooperatives are working with them. That's why I'm happy and that's the difference between you and me. I can't measure what you want to measure. I'd like to measure the work, measure the knowledge and measure the education, whether you like it or not. I think it's much more than your units of measurement are interested in the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1173	Right on the line. MP Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1174	I asked for a replica as deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group because of Mr. Zivkovic's thesis on the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the foreign minister and his, he said, meeting during a visit to the United States. I do not have the habit of reacting to pointless discussions in parliament, but since this is tangling the party, I must indeed assess that this debate and, in particular, the fact that the president of a party has had five minutes of debate has given me the hope that these five minutes will be used wisely, not for pointless claims. Mr. Dacic, in his capacity as foreign minister in an official visit to New York City, or UN headquarters, visited the SPC, which had been burned before in the fire, and on that occasion, at the heart of that church, met with clergy and members of the church board and talked to them about the torment that hit our fellow Americans in the United States, and it was really not his to check out the security members of the church board and the people the clergy had invited there. It is senseless and ominous, this connotation of Mr. Zivkovic, and especially when it comes from the mouth of someone who in his political past had more contact with people of the security suspicious categories, who participated in the organization of a peto-octobaric coup...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1175	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1176	... Parliament and everyone else, let's say, criminal activities that were part of it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1177	On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? Zoran Zivkovic throws. He didn't say that, he just answered your questions. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1178	Thank you, Chairman. You know, if the law proposed by the former speaker was in force in 2003, he would never be prime minister. I have no doubt about it, but you know one of the reasons why you, Mr. Vucic, are talking about it today and why our country is falling apart and why it was robbed, that is, when you end the prime minister's term, then you get a grant for the vineyard and never return it to the state. That's how they functioned, and thank God they'll never work like that again, but unfortunately, the country has failed significantly. What I can envy to you, Mr. Wolf, and I believe that many world politicians envy you, and that's because you have opposition like this. I don't think any leader will ever have such an opposition again. As long as there's no winter for them for this government. Really, it's my fault, I'd like those who perform more in the media. We've heard so much nonsense here today, so much nonsense that it's something really scary. I believe that all of us MPs here in the ruling majority can give a more meaningful review of the government's account and work than they did. I really have to say, and I'm very disappointed that we really don't have an opposition, because it's not good for one society if there's no opposition. Unfortunately, if people like this are opposition, I really have to realize that's their problem. Well, whatever. I'm going to look back, of course, on the very exposés you've brought out here, very thoroughly and much better than some people used to do in your place. You're wrong, it wasn't 20 minutes, it was 10 minutes. Mr. Cvetkovic exhibited for 10 minutes, and I remember it well, on four sheets of paper, and that was something that was really inappropriate, and became president of the government of one state. What I'm expressing as pessimism is exactly what you've been trying to do here a few years ago, it's to change the consciousness of our people. I'm running a show and I often talk to our people and what can't possibly change, and it's something that's a complete disaster, and it hurts me generally like this and it disappoints me, which is the fact that we can't get out of self-government socialism. We're still thinking about how the state should touch me, how the state should give me, how the state has to let me train, how it has to allow me to be treated. Everything the state has to do, and when you ask them what you're going to give to the state, then no one will give anything to the state. Because I guess this is where he learned to live in the system. I don't care. This is a good regime. That way I can't be honest, I think you're going to have to do some things here, like Kemal Pasha Ataturk did. Because it's impossible to change things around here. Like, I was going to go to a village, the Banatian municipality of Alibunar. You talk to the peasants after a new Cooperative Act has been passed, of course colleagues from the opposition have no idea that a new Cooperative Act has been passed and you tell these people to team up, and those neighbors drink beer with each other every night and say, "We can't team up, let the state give us two acres and we'll work." Then you can see it's something that's totally amazing. Secondly, we have a terrible division in society, we act like in that movie "Three Cards for Hollywood" when a global crisis is solved regarding Cuba and where neither Khrushchev nor Kennedy can solve it, but in one village we split up, and until the extermination we got into a fight, the whole village was arrested for that. That's what we really do today. We're dividing ourselves here into those who are for the Russians and who are for the Americans and that's not normal. At least we wonder what we'll do for Serbia. I can't hide, it's kind of in the Slovenian soul, in Slovenian being, after Serbia, Republika Srpska, of course I love the Russian Federation most and it's stupid to hide it but of course I love Serbia the most. I would never do anything in my life for someone else's interest, but work exclusively for my country's interests, because I love her most in the world. And no, we have a terrible situation here that this one non-governmental current accuses some representatives of power, says you are representatives of Russian power, then others return not to them, you are complete chiasha, what are you already here and no one is talking about Serbia. It is a division like we have on the Chetniks and Partisans, that today on the Star and Partizan, on Karadjordjevic supporters and Obrenovice, and it lasts. Whatever comes here, we still share. You'll have a big problem in the media in a few days. Not so much in society but more in the media because it is deliberately undermining, let's say, when it is rehabilitation, that is, the trial of Milan Nedić. I claim that there will be more controversy and that will be the main news, and it won't be the main news that we have economic growth, that there are some investments coming here, that we're reducing unemployment. I don't know if you notice, but it's not news in our media at all. It's a complete disaster. We do stupid things, trivial things. Let's just say for those three sheds in Sava Mali, I should be the first one to be the most sad that they've been torn down, in one of the pubs I spent most of my youth. To be honest. I'm sorry that it doesn't exist anymore, but you know I'm much more pleased that Belgrade is making progress because I want Belgrade to move forward. I can't look, people like they're enjoying that match, in that thorn, in those feces to apologize for those prostitutes that pimps run in that Pica park, that's the living truth. I don't want to talk about drug addicts walking around. I don't know who can enjoy it, the wrecks, the ships. It's their legacy of what they left us in Belgrade. On two rivers we go out, we can be the Balkan Rio de Janeiro, but no one here wants to talk about it at all. When someone's trying to do something, it's not retrograde right now, it's being restrained, campaigned, why? Because you want something better. With all my heart, of course, I will support the current government. I want her to move forward. The only thing I can't agree with is you, and yet I hope that because I want the state to show its authority, you know that I'm a big fan of the Red Star, and I'd give anything for that club, and today I'm just watching the game from the North Trib, but let the Star fall into the fourth league, so let it turn out to be Partizan, so what. Glasgow Rangers is out. Don't let the state touch our clubs anymore, or the Star, or Partizan, or Vojvodina or any other club, because that money can be directed at investment, it can be on some socially endangered people, don't throw anymore. Everything else is a lie, these clubs have to privatize, unless we want to watch the finals in the European competitions in August of the month. The only way for these clubs to prosper is only privatisation and I ask you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1179	The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1180	Just to thank you and now, or to allow us to have more members of the government leave the gym in a technical term or to continue at ten o'clock in the morning, since we have major problems with the weather in Poželjko, the Bay Bastan region and otherwise in the Zlatibor area. At least four members of the government would have to leave, maybe five members would have to leave. Just tell us what it is you want, especially asking political opponents. I see they want tomorrow at ten, as you decide, it's my request, but whatever you say, I'll stay here anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-10-0.u1181	I think it's better for ministers to be where they're supposed to be than for us to continue our work today. I'm setting a break. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
