ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why does the government not cancel both packages of the Brussels Agreements after it is clear that no agreement concerning the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia's interest will be realised, that it was only a simple fraud and that Serbia is exposed to new pressures, that Serbia wants to be further robbed, that they take "Telecom" in Kosovo, Trepca, to take away the large artificial lake in which the Republic of Serbia itself is most invested, it is about Lake Gazivod? In any case, as a first step, a decision should be made that the Serbian government refuses further negotiation and process until the concept of the Serb municipalities community is fully realised and that would be only logical, it would give the government room for manoeuvre, to say -- here, we would like to continue to talk even though it was a mistake for them to even talk about it in that way, but let's keep what's agreed so far. Otherwise, both packages of the Brussels Agreement are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and our legal order. On the first package of the Brussels Agreement, the constitutional judiciary institution in the Republic of Serbia fell completely. Imagine, the Constitutional Court called incompetent because it realized that the Brussels Agreements were political, not legal. How are political natures only when they produce legal consequences? Every political act that produces legal consequences is also a legal act, but you see what kind of constitutional judiciary we have. And in order to bring all this into line with the Constitution and the law, it is necessary to take a decisive step. So far, Serbia has always been under the socialist regime and Ottoman rule and now under advances in defensiveism. Serbia was asked, Serbia was being blackmailed, Serbia was being pressured, and when Serbia took some step in the offensive direction -- never? Now she should say the EU – we will continue negotiations on membership provided that the EU guarantees us territorial integrity, including Kosovo. Continuing negotiations on our membership in the international association, whether it's a confederation, the Federation, the Union, anything else in the condition that this international association is taking away from us, taking away part of the territory, what does that mean? What does that mean? It's like if the Jews Hitler led into the gas chamber were looking for before entering to join the National Socialist Party. Here's a little catchy comparison, but basically that's it. Those who kill us, torture us, harass us, take our territory, kill our national beings, despise our national culture, we court ourselves, and we want to be like them, we want to be in their ranks. I guess someone expects us to be able to do the same when we get the chance. He won't. The book fell to three letters. There is no longer anyone who is oppressed in Europe other than Serbia and Serbia will mostly be oppressed, because this Western culture must destroy someone, it must exploit someone, it must oppress someone. If they're American Indians, if they're African blacks, if they're Jews, if they're them, if they have to destroy someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2571	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2572	Now it's our turn, and we have to stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2573	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2574	Thank you. I am asking the Ministry of Agriculture, or Minister Branislav Nedimovic. The question concerns the City of The Tower, from which I am the only Member in this National Assembly. I ask Minister Nedimovic – which measures are available at the Ministry of Agriculture to resolve the situation in the Municipality of Kula, given that from 144 municipalities alone, the Tower has not received transfer funds, or 49 million dinars, because of not adopting a grant programme in the lease of state land. I'm not going to explain this, but I'm asking if anyone will answer and when will the situation in The Tower be resolved for the issue of state land? I'm also asking the same question to this ministry, and it's about restitution and the City of The Tower again. The tower is, according to some information, the worst in returning the land to the old owners, so I'm curious about how old the land was returned to the Old Owners in The Tower? In every place, I'm interested in the individual, and how many, in fact, old, new owners are listed in the cadastre as new owners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2575	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2576	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to refer my first question to the Minister of the Interior. According to the annual plan of using Serbia's military and other defence forces in the 2016 multinational operations, which unfortunately has not yet been adopted by this parliament, although we are already approaching the end of 2016, five members of the MUP are scheduled to stay in Haiti for a UN peacekeeping operation. Last week, unfortunately, that small island land was hit by a great tragedy, and over 1,000 people were killed by hurricanes. I'm interested in the state of the M.O.P. members, are they okay, do they have basic living conditions? I think that we, as the Assembly that is the state body that guides our soldiers, as well as members of the MUP in missions around the world, and here in Haiti, should take care of their health and their condition. The second question is for you, President of Parliament. In fact, our parliament experienced a great slap and shame yesterday at the Council of Europe. Our delegation, members of our delegation to the Council of Europe, has not been able to verify the mandates and those by Thursday, when the committee decides on the matter there, will not be able to take part in the vote. The problem that is being signalled there is that the composition of this delegation does not reflect the composition of parliament. When we adopted that decision, we from the SDS parliamentary group – Move forward Serbia, we said we would not support that decision because it is neither in line with the Rules of Procedure, because not all delegations reflect the composition of parliament. There are no members of our parliamentary group in any delegation, although by math and quota it had to happen. I think that this poor practice, which may have experienced the greatest situation in the constitution of this Parliament, should be interrupted. We had no consultation on the election of the president of the assembly bodies, so it happened that out of the 20 Assembly committees on only two committees, the presidents were members of opposition parties. That kind of thing never happened in a multiparty practice in this House. I think it's bad, and that passion that the ruling majority approach to this problem, here, when it comes out of the box of this hall, where most of these things exist, but some other majority and some other authorities take care of things that we don't, then we experience this shame that members of our delegation can't fully participate in the Council of Europe's meeting. I think that's bad. It is bad, here, and if we are talking about a diplomatic struggle these days to preserve the property of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, in which way our representatives there and with what legitimacy and which reputation in the eyes of other fellow Members can talk about this and other topics. I call on you to correct this mistake, to make a deal at the college, which has not dealt with the issue, and on delegations, and on the seats of the chairman of the board, because I think it is bad for the reputation of this National Assembly to continue working with such delegations and committee presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2577	Thank you. I'm very pleased to answer some of the questions you asked me right now, if you're interested in the answer. I have just received word from the Council of Europe that the mandates of our delegation have been confirmed unanimously by the Committee for Procedural Rules, and that the MP from the United Kingdom, who was yesterday due to the misinformation he received from one of our, unfortunately, MPs, who tried to apply... It is good that they rejoice, so it is, that there are MPs in this House who rejoice when our state casts out the justice of someone who has been done to her, the injustice this time by the work of one of our MPs. And that's true. That's true. I was in the same Council of Europe two weeks ago and I was told who raised the informal question through a Socialist group that once belonged to those MPs. That's very ugly. No, what you have today, but what we have MPs in this House who do not choose the means to cause great damage to our country, precisely because one of the most important issues for us is being discussed in the Council of Europe, whether the delegation of Parliament from Kosovo and Metohija will participate in their work or not. We were blocked by this procedure, only because someone can't stand to have few MPs, opposition MPs, who have much more willful citizens, are SRS and DJB, and this was a blow directed at our parliament as well as colleagues from opposition parties. Isn't that right, MP Đurisic? Today, we are all very pleased that our head of delegation, Ms. Aleksandra Djurović, and Zarko Obradovic, who yesterday did everything in the Socialist Group to say by which procedure our MPs were elected, which they managed today to strengthen their arguments from the Committee for Rules and Procedures to ensure that everything was done under the domestic rules of both the national parliament and the rules of the Council of Europe. I'm glad that part of the MPs, the great majority here, welcomed the news with applause, which we received just as you asked the question. We can have a round of applause. There you go. Thank you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2578	Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would like to refer the same question to the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and First Vice-President, or Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. After a decision by the Pristina government and a law that then passed, which is related to "Trepce", we heard from the president of the Republic for the first time the notion of red lines in our Kosovo policy. Since we have adopted a number of documents here in Parliament that both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the current foreign minister have been behind, he was in office as Prime Minister at the time, and I am interested in telling us what red lines these are? I don't mind our country formulating its policy. Depending on the character of this policy, our parliamentary group will declare it. But I think we're all in a very serious problem when faced with political initiatives by someone who's facing Belgrade, we find out that there are red lines that we've never talked about. These red lines very often bring themselves down to one, in our opinion, unacceptable, function and role in society. The red lines must not be an alibi, nor an instrument that poisons and anesthetizes our public, in order to then do all that is supposed to be done at no cost. We've been talking about Kosovo here for years. I am glad that today there are many more who have come to understand the value of the policy and attitudes we have always represented. These are not the exclusive attitudes of the LDP or the circle of MPs who have always shared them with us. These are the attitudes that force our lives. Today, at the moment when we are faced with objective problems that follow the law that has been passed and adopted in relation to "Trepce", I think that everything that was created in the meantime is ignored, that there is an atmosphere in society, which will make us a much higher price than the price we will pay, in our opinion, if we do not respond to the law adopted in Pristina. That's why it would be good for the President of the Republic, when he's already talking about the red lines, to tell us what the red lines are, to tell us if there's any other means besides the one we've insisted on so far, to defend those red lines? I think this is particularly important, given everything that is standing before us at the moment, and certainly not taking into account the thesis that is being transmitted at this time through our society, which actually describes everything that is happening in relations between Pristina and Belgrade as a conspiracy of the West, Europe or America against the Serbian people. When we took that course over the last 25 years, we just lost and died. Today we need much more reason, certainly much more reason in those circles in which the answer to what happened last week in Pristina is formulated. So let the three of them say if there are red lines, if there are, why didn't they tell us about them when we adopted the documents that formulated our policy against Kosovo politics here? Let them go to parliament and ask for support for those red lines that we read only in interviews and listen to in statements, and we never talk seriously about them. When we used to draw lines in the past, we were usually losers. Today we do not agree and expect you, Madam President, to allow us to receive an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2579	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2580	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam President of the Assembly, my question is coming to you. We all know, since last week, that Serbia is facing an ultimatum in connection with the kidnapping of Trepce and Serbian assets on KIM and I ask you – why haven't you called a special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia so far in which we could discuss this issue? Today, the Serbian government and Mr. Marko Djuric will demand, as already announced in the media, that the UN Security Council meet to discuss the issue. Don't you find it a little unusual that we as a government are asking to meet the UN Security Council without the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sitting before that? We'll have some other topics today. Imagine, when Serbia received the Australian ultimatum in 1914, that at the time the government and the Assembly discussed some other topics besides the one the ultimatum was about? Personally, in front of the DSS MPs' club, I believe that this session is necessary, because it is necessary that we finally speak honestly, publicly, honestly, to say exactly what the Brussels Agreement is. According to us, the Brussels Agreement is very bad for Serbia, because the Brussels Agreement has sucked Serbia's country out of KIM. The Brussels agreement has actually opened up space, legal space for the kidnapping of Serbian property and for the kidnapping of Trepce. Let me remind you that in 2006, there were negotiations on KIM in Vienna. At the time, the European Union had the same attitude as Kosovo Albanians, which is that KIM property belongs to Kosovo authorities, not to Serbia. We then rejected and rejected that part of Ahtisaari's plan, as well as the whole of Ahtisaari's plan. I am taking the opportunity to ask you, Madam President, why didn't you call elections, local elections, in four municipalities in northern Kosovo and thus, at least, show that the state of Serbia is present at KIM? With the Brussels agreement, we no longer have our Serbian authorities. We don't have our own police anymore, we don't have the judiciary, and that's why the Serbian defense on KIM is downgraded, and that's why this is happening to us. I also have questions for the signatories of the Brussels Agreement and their assistants. Where, gentlemen, is today this famous community of Serb municipalities, which was meant to be the defense and guarantee of the survival of the Serb people in KIM, the guarantee of the survival of Serbian property on KIM, the guarantee of Serbia's survival in KIM? We ask you, Madam President, to call the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this subject and to have a few points here. First, we ask that the government be present with the prime minister and that the government give Serbian citizens clear and unequivocal answers as to what has been happening so far in connection with the Brussels Agreement, what is all public or secretly negotiated with the Brussels Agreement, what the EU publicly or secretly requires of Serbia, which are concessions, which are concessions. Finally, we are asking for a clear negotiating platform to be adopted and in which it will clearly stand that two people cannot in public or in secret negotiate and negotiate, but rather give a certain framework to the negotiating process, as would be the order. In the end, the DSS considers...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2581	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2582	... That we should withdraw our negotiating process from Brussels to the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2583	Thank you. I have received a proposal and a request from you and some other parliamentary groups for a session to discuss on which you have just discussed and asked questions, so it will certainly be by the end of the month. We will agree with the Prime Minister and with all members of the government to have everyone present and set a date. As part of the Rules of Procedure, we will certainly discuss and ask questions and get relevant information. There are no secret negotiations, so I expect that we will discuss the topic that you have proposed, which interests and leaves MPs present here, and we will discuss in this topic the calling of elections in local areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'll answer you in writing, because I've answered that question many times. And I know that this question is very interesting to repeat, and I just answered your political option a few times, but you'll get my answer in writing. You know how elections are discussed. In other words, I see many MPs from KIM territory and I wonder – how are they present in the national parliament? This isn't a local parliament. This is the national parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and I am pleased, it is a great pleasure that we have MPs from the KIM territory who will certainly take part in the debate that you have initiated. So there are MPs with different political spectrum, so we'll hear their questions and their discussions. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2584	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the parliamentary question this way to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and BIA directors, i.e. VBA. I'll explain what my motive was to ask all these questions. In fact, these days, as my colleagues have said, the previous speakers have witnessed a number of problems we have in KIM when it comes to protecting the interests of our country and people. This condition did not come overnight, it is due to a series of processes, and many of them are processes of long duration. In the meantime, we've even had armed aggression against NATO pact countries, armed riots, assassinations, robberies, kidnappings, etc. What I want to point out through my questions now is that some of these mechanisms, which have led to this situation in KIM, have been applied backwards in central Serbia for years and if we are not careful, we may have even greater problems than those we currently have, and therefore we from the Serbian Movement Group of the Dveri are also joining the request, which we asked in writing last week, to hold a special session on KIM. My questions are next. Is it true that in the period 2009 to 2015 thousands of people of Albanian nationality, more specifically about 7,000 born in the area of AP KIM, reported the first residence in the municipality of Medvedje, in violation of the provisions of the Law on residence and residence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia: Is it true that the persons of Albanian nationality were immediately obtained biometric documents, ID cards and passports after the application of the residence? Is it true that the overage persons mentioned immediately after receiving biometric documents are listed in the voter list of the Bear Municipality? Did the internal police control sector carry out an investigation into this and what knowledge did they have on that occasion? Is the exact data, which may already be operationally verified and confirmed that some 3,500 Serbs, 527 Albanians, live in the Medvedje municipality, while it is fictionally located at residence addresses and in the voter lists of more than 7,000 Albanians? Is it true that in the village of Svirce, the municipality of Medvedja has been reported in the information system of the MUP about 1700 Albanians, and that the village actually has about 18 to 20 citizens of Albanian nationality? Is it true that there are several hundred persons of Albanian nationality in the municipality of Medvedja which have been reported here since they were now about 100 or over 100 years old? To clarify, there seem to be several hundred people who retired a long time ago, and for some of them there are still pensions, say, on the territory of the Bear Community? Is it true that there are about 700 people living in populated towns, covered by the police department, Syarinska Banja, and that there are about 3,500 people in the residents' lists? All I've said so far is inexplicably suggesting that I have to ask a question -- is there even a precise record of the person in the framework of the MUP when it comes to the territory of the bear municipality? Then how has the identity of persons over 16 years of age and who have not had any documents issued by the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia been established? Whether it was done in accordance with Articles 43 and 44. The law on police, or was it based on a statement by two witnesses, accompanied by a photo of a person, to whom was an opt-out signed by a municipal authority, the management of the Medvedja municipality, which could lead to abuse, replacement, or identity theft? I'm also asking for the following reports to be delivered. The first is the report by the Leskovac Police Administration, number 021-8128/15 of 19.02.2016. If possible, I'd like to get a report from Internal Affairs Sector number 130/15 since October 28th last year, so I'd like to get to know their content. Also, I want to see what is happening with the Bujanovac Municipality Movement initiative, "The Human Rights of the Serbs in Bujanovac", the Bujanovcan Zavičak Club, which submitted another 5.02.2015, was then admitted to the government building of the Republic of Serbia, where they are looking for answers to certain questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2585	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2586	I thank the president. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to request a notice from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which I assume will further forward this issue to the one responsible, whether it is the company "The Ways of Serbia" or possibly a local self-government that can be responsible for this problem. I noticed the problem a few months ago, and after that, I was contacted by the citizens of Bajina Basto municipality, who confirmed to me that this problem really exists, that it was something more serious than I thought, and that it was taking a lot longer than I could have imagined. What's this about? A few months ago, I was passing through Valjevo-Bajina Basto and on the section of the road across Povne, or across the Thin Hill, on the descent towards Drina, I couldn't help but notice that no serpentine, or elbow of the curve was properly marked. On the side of Valyev, I have to admit that maybe everything, if not everything, then most of these curves were marked. So it's a very serious property problem, and more importantly, citizens' lives. I was also contacted by the people of Bajina Basta municipality who told me that this information was correct, but that Bajina Basta-Tara was also not marked, or the elbow of the curve was not marked on this road, although this time it was repaired several years ago and it was expanded. Those elbows were done something better than they were before. So it's about something that must absolutely be solved as soon as possible. It's a very important magistrateal direction. It is a road that not only connects Western Serbia, but also connects Belgrade, i.e. northern Serbia with very important tourist centres in Serbia, with Tar, Mokro Gora, Zlatibor, then with Andricgrad, Visegrad, eastern Bosnia, eastern Herzegovina and beyond, the Montenegrin coast. I ask the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure to examine what it is, to contact the competent authority, whether it is "The Roads of Serbia", whether it is local self-government and to check why this problem exists, according to the people of Bajina Basta for more than 10-15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2587	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2588	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable presidents, I refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic. We know that the state of Serbia has not had a coherent agriculture policy for four years now, i.e. four years from now. The government of the Republic of Serbia has changed three agriculture ministers. We also know that there are millions and 305,000 agricultural producers in Serbia who are increasingly difficult and harder to live. will these people return subsidies at least to those from 2012? In 2012, there were 14,000 dinars per hectare, and now they are 4,000 per hectare. We know that the price of grain in 2012 was 25 dinars. Now it's the same price as 13 dinars. The price of sunflower in 2012 is 50 dinars, now 30 dinars. Will the minister make the agrarian budget five years or ten years old, or will the agrarian policy depend on how often we change the Minister of Agriculture? We also have a proposal for the Minister of Agriculture to set up a fund for the development of agrarians to lend farmers at an interest rate of 1% on an annual basis to help farmers or to deliberately lower all people who deal with agriculture, to sell our country to foreign citizens? We have nothing against foreign investment, of course we are for foreign investment, but we are not for our Serbian country to be sold to anyone. The second question I refer to is the state administration minister and local self-government who said last week that there is no knowledge that in municipalities and cities despite the ban on employment, SNS personnel, SNS tappers and SNS activists are primarily employed. We have data, we don't want to read names now, but we have data that more than 8,000 people are employed in municipalities and cities, primarily all run by SNS, and that these are all SNS activists. For example, 20 people have been employed in the municipality of Kirište in the last year. In the town of Užica 180 people are employed in public enterprises and the city's own Assembly. In Nis the number is 300 SNS activists, in the Great Plan it is 50. In the city of Smederev, over 200 people have been employed in the last year, which on the contract, which permanently. In The Tower, over 40 people were employed, in Prokuplje over 40 people employed, which on the contract, which permanently. We have names and last names here, it is not convenient to read the names and names of these people, I ask the question of the Minister of Local Self-Government – which conventions will the irresponsible presidents of municipalities and the irresponsible mayors of SNS bear? We know that you won the election, we know that for four years you've been hiring your activists, your wallpapers, the people who make their posters, who are party activists, but what are we going to do with the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors and the directors who broke the law? It's a question for the minister, how will she deal with that problem? Since I hear that the gentlemen across the street are winning, in 2015 the Smederevska Palanka Municipality, according to the ministry's report, had 11 people less than the law allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2589	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2590	Thank you. Dear President, I'd like to ask RTS a question about the subscription and release of the subscription. Since I come from a region where there is a large number of elderly population, people no longer live in our villages, and this is not only true for Svrljig, it is also true for surrounding municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and according to the Law of Subscribe, 150 dinars should be paid for each number, there are opportunities under Article 42 and the exemption from the subscription, where it decidently says that all those subscribers who have their own number, and do not live in the household and spend electricity, at their request they must be free from a TV subscription of 150 dinars. I'm talking to my neighbors, people from Srlig, whose parents in the villages died, they inherited their houses, their households still have their numbers and they have electricity, but they don't spend. They submitted a request in February of this year to RTS and did not receive an answer to this day, and still comes every month that they have to pay the subscription even though they have the possibility and the RTS is obliged to release them under the Administrative Procedure Act in 30 days from the day they submitted their request for release. I ask the responsible, when will these people be given a solution to the exemption from the subscription? Because there's a large population of people living in cities whose heritage remains in our villages, they come there, but they don't spend electricity. So, I would ask the representatives of RTS and the responsible to get rid of the subscription as soon as possible, because every dinar is needed by our citizens, and all these municipalities in our region, in southeastern Serbia, are very poor and people are very poor. That's one question. The second issue is the same for the Ministry of Health and the RFZO, and it is related to a company located on the territory of the municipality of Svrljig. The company is called "Herbogal". Otherwise, by 1992, it was "Krka". After those problems and wars, the state of Serbia transposed and formed the company "Herbogal". By 2004, Herbogal had functioned and worked. In 2004, she went bankrupt and never left bankruptcy until today. The municipality of Srljig has opportunities and has interested investors who want to invest in the company. By the way, this company had its own two freezers, dryers, and stuff besides the production of drugs, pills. I would like to call on the health ministry in charge of the RFO to address the issue of "Herbogal" as soon as possible. If the Health Fund can't finish it, I'd suggest the Ministry of Health transfer jurisdiction to local self-government, and we have an interested investor who'll be working there tomorrow. Otherwise, this company is located 15 km from the highway. The road is very frequent and is located at the entrance to Srlig. The question is, when will the problem of "Krke" or "Herbogal" be solved, so that people can work there? Otherwise, I have to say, I have time, I have been as a folk MP, along with the assistant president of the municipality, at the RFZO and in a conversation with the face of Petar Stajkovic, he is there very specifically in charge of these problems, in conversation with him I saw that they are not interested in solving the problem. At the same time, I can also say that by his conduct in talking to him, Mr. Petar Stajkovic, I spoke to him, he looked somewhere behind him, he didn't pay attention to people who wanted to solve problems, he didn't pay attention to people who came from further municipalities, and in this way he demoted the Assembly, demoted both the president of the municipality and all the people of Svrlig municipality. I would also invite the director of RFZO to talk to his workers, such as the example of Petar Stajkovic, because in such a way co-operation with both local self-government and people is a very bad example for everyone. We have problems to solve. At the very least, if the problem can't be solved, you can at least talk to people. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2591	The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2592	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is the main negotiator with Pristina on all issues concerning Kosovo and Metohija, and the issue concerns respect for contracts and property. Respect for contracts and assets is a civilization value, which is worth every country in Western Europe, in the EU, in the United States, and that is something that is unquestionable, and that would be a red policy line for every party that holds to the rule of law. The mining metal chemical combination "Trepca" was founded in 1927 before World War II in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In 1992, he became a stockholder. It is owned by the Development Fund, 78.5%, "General Export", which is in bankruptcy, which has its creditors 9.7%, "Yugobanke", which is also in bankruptcy, has its creditors owned by 3.3%, "Progress" with 2.8%, then "MTS Bank", "EPS", "14. October" which is also in bankruptcy and has its creditors, Ratko Mitrovica, the thermoelectrico company, the Danube Insurance company that owns its own. The prime minister made statements on the property of some legal entities in Kosovo. For example, for the property of Telecom, he said that she, as far as he can see, had already been nailed, that question was nailed, and that he did not know if there was anything he could do. He then used the term "goodbyes" for both "Telecoma" and "Gazivod". This is a violation of the contract and a violation of property rights and the question is whether all these countries, especially in the EU participating in these negotiations, have raised the question of respect for contracts and property. It's a central question that should be asked, because property cannot be held by anyone else. The decision to take ownership of the company "Trepca" is illegal, against both international rights and against property rights. This would be very similar, for example, if this Assembly passed a law on “Hemofarm”, for example, or passed a NIS law, or passed a Law on Telenor, where foreign property would be transferred to its property. It is something that is not allowed in a civilized world and the question is whether this question has been asked to all EU and Western negotiators, and is it why you blatantly remain silent about Pristina's move? Of course, what happened in Pristina can't be prevented, they can pass the law they think of. However, this does not mean that the EU, within the framework of the negotiations and the United States, should not say that this is illegal and that it cannot be handled in such a way. There is a big problem when this country, or its prime minister, violates property rights. Let's say, in the case of Savala, in the case of the anti-constitutional retirement. That sets a precedent based on which you are then appreciated when you seek respect for your property rights. The Brussels negotiations themselves, i.e. what is signed, do not say that either the Republic of Serbia or legal and natural persons from the Republic of Serbia deny their property anywhere, including in Kosovo and Metohija. So this is an overly property issue and a question of respect for property rights. So, the question is for the prime minister -- did he talk to EU representatives, with US representatives, whether the issue of property over the company "Trepca" asked them why they did not respond to the property rights violations of the company's owner "Trepca"? The owners, except for those I counted, are of course also the creditors of the bankrupt companies, who exercise their property rights through bankruptcy proceedings and their assets have also been seized. So, why did he say and why does he think anything about the property was nailed? We think it is unacceptable for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. The basic values we represent are the rule of law, property rights and respect for the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2593	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2594	I thank you, President. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will ask two questions. The first question I will refer to the interior ministry to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Ministry of Justice, Minister Neli Kuburovic. My first question concerns the biggest organised robbery in Serbia's history, and this is the robbery of state resources that took place during the previous regime, i.e. in 2012, and of course regarding Vojvodina Development Bank. The regime before 2012 not only allowed the development bank of Vojvodina to rob Serbian citizens, but also used Vojvodina's Development Bank as its own bank of pigs. Thus, the DS for financing an election campaign from Vojvodina Development Bank in 2012 took a loan of 360 million dinars per six months, with an interest rate of 18.6% per year. However, miraculously, the Development Bank's Management Board approved that the DS should be extended from six months to 42 months, with a monthly interest of 1.4%, which is indeed scandalous and shows that the bank was then absolutely under the control of the ruling regime. Of course, only in two procedures in which bank officials under the control of the ruling regime gave loans to companies, Serbian citizens were damaged by over five billion dinars. For that money, we could build 170 new kindergartens, let's say, for our children, 50 new wastewater purifiers, which would give 50 new settlements conditions for construction of a sewerage network and a lot more, of course, if we hadn't been robbed. So my question is, how many total criminal proceedings have been committed in connection with the abuse of the Vojvodine Development Bank? What is the qualification of criminal acts in these proceedings? What process stage are these procedures at? How much money is totally suspected of being damaged by Serbian citizens due to malfeasance at Vojvodina Development Bank? My second question will be referred to the Ministry of State Administration, the local self-government of Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic. So, how many of the persons, or party activists, have been employed since December 2013 to date in the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, the government of Vojvodina and the Assembly of Vojvodina? This is what I want to show really how much the previous regime in Vojvodina has employed, or how much the government of Bojan Pajtic has actually hired an activist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2595	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Goran Cabradi, Zarko Obradović and Dusan Pavlovic. You have been presented the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 4 October this year. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 4 October 2016 Please enter our statements. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 4 October 2016. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, the National Assembly should decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and proposals for supplementing the agenda. Five-minute break. I'm asking the heads of parliament to ask the MPs to come down to the O.R. so we can determine the agenda. Thank you. I'm also asking you not to leave the O.R. [[After a break.]] Please determine before voting the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 134 MPs present in the hall. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel Želizara Smederevo, d.o.o. Smederevo, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No 15/16, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The vote was - 135, against - one, abstention - one, did not vote - 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, as a lender, to finance the construction of the shares of Ljig-Bojkovci, Boykovci-Taovo and Takovo-Preljina highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia since 2 February 2012, which has submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 135, against – one, abstention – no one voted – 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one, self-abstained, voted for the vote; 17 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the validation of the APEX financial agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities of III/B, between the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 14 against – three, abstention – one, did not vote – 137 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement LD 1830/2014, between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one was able to vote for a vote against a self-sufficient one. No one voted for 154 Messengers. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Modernisation and Optimisation Programme of Public Administration) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one was able to vote for a vote against a self-sufficient one. No one voted for 154 Messengers. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda a draft decision on the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations in 2016, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one, against whom no one with abstention, voted, voted, 154 messengers. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The vote was two against one, one against the other, one against the other. 156 Messengers. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 139 against – no one, abstentioned, one, voted, 23 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Here are your emissaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2597	Thank you. For the second time in this conference, I'm telling you that 7,000 families in the Republic of Serbia live only on the lease of state-owned agricultural land, and the number of families that have additional incomes because they rent and process state-owned agricultural land may be twice as high. So you, when you adopted the Law on Agricultural Land a few months ago in this Assembly, directly endangered the existence of 15 or 16,000 families, agricultural families living off the lease and processing of state agricultural land. When you adopted the Law on Agricultural Land, you entered into it a strange provision that the president of the municipality in each municipality in Serbia can give 30% of the agricultural land in that municipality to the investor by his free choice for a 99-year period. You have thus denied the right for all of these people who live from the processing of this agricultural land to do so in the future, and everything will happen the way you have been used to in the past four years, without a public call, secretly in direct agreements and with selected business partners who for some reason represent you as investors. What I propose in this law is to make some rules by which these investors can get that land for 99 years. To make a public call, that they compete, that they have to give investment plans, to see who can and which country to win at this 99-year-old use because 99 years is a lifetime of several generations in families that live on agriculture, and you will actually make people who deal in agriculture work as an overescort on the land of your business partners you chose without a public call, without criteria, without rules and without any conditions. Let's talk about this, let's see how this procedure can be made a little more honest, much more transparent and not deny these people the right to live off of what generations in their families live on and not leave them the worst quality, but to agree on what country your business partners can take from them, which will belong to those who process it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2598	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. You want to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2599	Why is the Republic of Serbia three years behind the adoption of the Missing Baby Act? Why does the congregation majority in the Serbian Parliament not agree for three years that the Criminal Code, as a crime that does not grow old and steal babies, and why do you not want to give parents to whom children have been stolen more time to seek justice and why do you allow these crimes to become obsolete? Here, you don't even have to vote for, you don't even have to adopt the bill, let just one of the MPs who won't accept this bill thirty times stand up and say why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2600	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2601	What kind of colleges will we be, what universities will we be, what education at higher education institutions depends on what kind of country we want to build, what kind of society we want to be, what kind of country we want to be, do we want to be when we're seriously counting on when the story of regional development, the development of this part of Europe, or are we going to be the country that investors come to because of the cheap workforce, because of workers who agree for 23,000 dinars to wear diapers and that they can't go to the toilet because they don't have another perspective? Will we be a country that will buy investments and pay tens of thousands of euros for jobs where workers work for a minimumer, and the only condition is that it can stand for 10 hours? We need to make a decision about what colleges we want, what universities we want, what we want our students to know when they leave those colleges. Do we still want to have lawyers who finish law school without seeing a single contract? Do we still want to have teachers of Serbian language who taught teaching methods in the 1972 book and who don't know what happened in the previous 40 years in modern education? Do we want to continue to have a flood of private colleges where diplomas, plagiarisms are purchased, which nobody knows who wrote them, but they know very well who put up with them? Do we want to have colleges that, to enroll as many students as possible and to earn as much money, lower all the criteria? Do we want to have a system where no one controls and no quality control system after the university's accreditation? Do we want to have students who are already enrolling in colleges with dissatisfaction, even basic standards? Do we want our best students to still have problems when accrediting diplomas that they are, when nosetripping diplomas they've acquired abroad? Do we want the education system to create human resources that are unable to deal with the professions they have been trained for, and do we want knowledge to be devoid of, devoid of effort, and to send a message to everyone in this country that it is not worth learning or working for, or trying? These are the things I think we need to talk about. Let this proposal not be something we'll adopt, but I think it's time we started talking about it in the congregation, just let it begin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2602	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 143 MPs. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does Ambassador Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. You're going to pull out his card because I have it in my system. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted 159 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the Assembly has not adopted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. He finds that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent and carry out criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. Would you like a word? (Nenad Konstantinović, from the place: No. Don't you? Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. Here you go, MP. He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 MPs for – 10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 11 against – none, the abstentioned – 158 MPs voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 155 MPs for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one who has voted with 156 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National Parliament of the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov has proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Do you want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2603	I thank the president. So, our schools are bad. Children come out of them, so that they learn nothing, sit therein, and learn by heart. The directors aren't capable of managing the tasks they need to run. Teachers don't learn much at seminars they go to. School conditions are catastrophic, our textbooks are outdated, teaching plans and programs too large and inadequate for modern times. The course is performed in a traditional way, without including any modern ways of teaching. Schools are full of violence. Children only learn by heart what is required of them. We need a depoliticalization of the governing body, depolitisation of the selection of directors. We need a headmaster's training for the jobs they're supposed to do. Schools need to take care of the kids. Preschool education does not cover a sufficient number of children, children from poor families and socially endangered categories are not available. Children in entertainment areas do not even have such conditions, and they are often very modest at home. Parents are supposed to bring to the party from toys, through books, all the way to soap for their hands. It's not a good turn-on. It is impossible, in some places, to enroll a child in kindergarten without any connection. There are no conditions for students in schools. The cabinets aren't equipped, there's no Internet in school, there's no support for kids from sensitive groups, and they're very early in school. There's talk of a school termination, a rationalization of a network of schools. The kids at school are hungry, they don't even have lunch. The cabinets aren't equipped, there's no libraries, there's no Internet, there's no election class. Children don't develop, as individuals, as thinking people, as future citizens of this society. Dominates teaching classes, no modern disciplines. The number of schools is decreasing and the number of children in schools is increasing. Teachers aren't trained for modern concepts of learning, no professional teacher development. Our quality of education is below average. Kids don't know that they interpret even the texts they just read, they don't know anything when they get out of school, they're not trained, they're not trained to continue school, they're not able to cope with life. Sports is a privilege for talented children. The other children are trying in every way to get rid of the physical education class. Schools don't have educational facilities, kids avoid classes, teachers do, too. Let's at least talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2604	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 149 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National Parliament of the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov has proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks. Do you want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2605	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we are in a very unfortunate, vicious circle when it comes to our education. Our textbooks are bad because our classes are bad. Our classes are bad because we're bad at school. Our schooling is bad because there's no intention of inoculating it. However, when it comes to textbooks, new colleagues may not remember everything that happened, when we adopted the Law on textbooks, one of the greatest polemics ever conducted in this congregation was whether the textbook as a teaching tool should be such as to develop a critical opinion in the child. At that moment, it was unacceptable for the minister. He did, however, and gave the law several times in the procedure, so he complained about the pressures he had, under pressures, so he probably made a deal with pressurers afterwards, so he let the law into the procedure. Our situation is that currently one publishing house holds a monopoly on textbooks, that still teachers are treated as the basic link, the weakest link in the chain, accused of corruption, accused of various submunications when it comes to the choice of textbooks, and does not care what the textbooks say. They are still full of material mistakes today. They are full of prejudice, full of discrimination, full of everything that shouldn't be in textbooks, and we need to find a way for these textbooks to be adapted to the modern world of modern education and modern education. They're still too heavy, too expensive. Children continue to buy a bunch of textbooks that never open just because they were told at the beginning of the school year that they needed these textbooks. They can't write in them because very often because of the cost of their parents' textbooks, to buy them new textbooks, they have to sell the old ones. The free textbook project we know how it went. And this assembly refuses to discuss it. When we talk about education, we talk about whether parents should be charged when children are left school. We're talking about whether someone should study for four, six or ten years, and about those things that are crucial to the quality of our education, and the quality of education is crucial to the quality of our lives, you don't want to talk. I'm asking you to accept this proposal and start talking about it, because if we're not dealing with it, I don't know why we're even running to be MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2606	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 Members of the people. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. Do you want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2607	Thank you. Dear People’s MPs, analyzing the effects of the Law on Public Assembly, we have seen some shortcomings and some irregularities that we have pointed out when the law itself was adopted in this assembly a year ago. For this reason, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to change, first of all, Article 3, 6, 13 and 14. Plus, that's where we added Article 13a. What led us to all this like the SDS MP group? First of all, an event a few months ago and events that happened with the municipal police. You've all heard, you've all witnessed in some way, in which the municipal police abused their position. For this reason, when we have conducted and analysed this law, we have come to the conclusion that Article 3 is going to meet union representatives, as well as all employees who at some point want to show their dissatisfaction. In the preceding article, we had in some way a restriction on that event. As for Article 6, there are no objective reasons, and then we pointed out that workers should not be gathered in front of preschool and school institutions, because it was thus impossible to show their dissatisfaction with working conditions or dissatisfaction with their management or better to tell the director. As for Article 13a, where we have added, and here we have clearly defined the place of gathering, because everywhere in the world there is a place where dissatisfied workers, dissatisfied with politics or government, can gather and we have defined here to be the square of Nikola Pasic, in order to kind of get close to world democracies that have a place of gathering. And then, if you remember, a year ago, we made an amendment, but unfortunately we had no understanding of the majority in this assembly. For this reason, honourable MPs, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill, to put yourself on the agenda and some other shortcomings, the shortcomings in this law together we try to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2608	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordan Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2609	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the People, we have also closely monitored and analysed this law. As you know, this law entered into force on 5 February 2016 and, among other things, the regulation of public order and peace in public places and illegal acts against public order and peace has been established as the subject of the law. I, as I have several laws, mentioned the municipal police, and that is precisely one of the reasons why we have proposed the amendment of Article 22 and the events that happened back several months with the municipal police, where the municipal police misused their position and exceeded the frameworks of their jurisdiction and thus violated the human rights of citizens. For this reason, we asked for a change in Article 22, because we believe that Article 22 has been defined in an unacceptable way, whose interpretation is left from case to case, as shown by the existing practice in the previous few months. It does not seem to be anything that the official’s work would be limited or that they would in any way be in an inferior position in or on potential perpetrators of the offence. I'll just remind you, someone will think that we want to reduce the responsibility and jurisdiction of the officials, that the provisions of other laws have very clearly laid down the powers of the official in these cases. Therefore, honourable MPs, so as not to come into the situation that we have a case, like a few months ago, that was fatal, I ask you to vote for this, to put it on the agenda, because in no way do we want to reduce the powers or responsibilities of the official. I know what that means, because for many years I've been an authorized person, I've worked as a Republic Inspector and I know what it means to violate human rights, as the municipal police have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2610	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 20 against - 152 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordan Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2611	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, and in the past I also explained this law. We, as a parliamentary group, have demanded that the Law on the Tax of Legal Persons, where the rate of corporate income is prescribed to be 15%, be reduced to 10%. We believe that this would be a redistribution of the real sector from a high profit tax rate, and that would also be an impulse to attract foreign investment, but also to increase the economic activity of the domestic real sector. The Law amending the Law on corporate tax will create conditions for the real sector, companies, cooperatives and other market participants to reduce tax rates to 10% of the corporate tax rate. This will imply a reduction in the unemployment rate, as lower rates of corporate income tax have shown to stimulate the creation of new jobs, as well as new employment. All countries that were in transition in our environment had a relatively low profit tax rate, and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument in the function of developing the economy and increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, above all, through an increase in exports. I don't live in illusions that only reducing the profit tax rate from 15 to 10% will solve all our structural problems in our economy, but it can certainly be an important fiscal instrument for the recovery and growth of our economy. I don't think there are any MPs here who don't want us to have as much GDP as possible, that our economy is going in the right direction, and we think that this is one of the ways that we can increase the employment rate and in some way restore our fallen economy. For this reason, honourable MPs, I ask and ask that we put this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2612	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 150 MPs for – 23, against – the abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordan Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2613	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, as you know, the Law on Public Information, when it was passed in 2014, was announced as a major reform shift where we, as MPs of the SDS, have thus joined the law. At that time, however, we pointed to one flaw. It is our opinion that shareholders with less than 5% share in the media should also be included in the owner's register. This opinion and our position have just given us the right, because the Anti-Corruption Council in February 2015 also published a report on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia, and the Council also demanded that all media owners, whether they have 5% or more shares in those media or less than 5%, be registered in the register of owners. For this reason, we ask that Article 39, paragraph 8, where all media registers be recorded directly, indirectly, regardless of the level of share in the founding capital of the issue, as opposed to the solution so far as I have been told that only the data on owners whose share exceeds 5% are recorded. For this reason, the honourable MPs, in order to sort out the transparency and the media, have all witnessed that in the last year when privatisation occurred primarily local media, we do not even know today who the owners are, who the real owners are. We actually know who's conducting and who's running the media but we don't know who the real owners are and that's why we want them in a transparent way and that means the owners who have a smaller share of 5% of the media to be included in the management register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2614	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of the vote. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the genocide of the independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Would you like to explain? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2615	Thank you, Madam President. I propose adding the agenda to this point, i.e. to include in the agenda a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma. Our DSS parliamentary group gave the Assembly a proposal for this resolution as early as July 5th. We also had a very well-organised hearing last week on the memory culture of genocide victims and Holocaust organised by the Diaspora Committee and Serbs outside Serbia. We believe that it would be a very good time and that the gathering held last week in the congregation would have its point in discussing this resolution today and adopting it. The resolution on the genocide of the independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma is not an answer to any other daily political resolution. The NDH genocide resolution over Serbs, Jews and Roma is not a revenge, it aims to repay the debt to the victims, to repay the debt to history, to repay the debt to the truth. The only truth can lead to reconciliation in the region, and this is a step towards it. I would like to say that this topic is not a day-to-day-political topic, this is not a topic that neither individual nor any party should be advertised. The whole Serbian parliament should stand behind this, all parties should stop, all parliamentary groups, this topic is a terrible, big topic, and I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2616	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 32, against – no one. 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on changes and additions to local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention who has voted for the vote; there is no one who has voted in favour of it. 176 MPs have not voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that Article 92 be applied. Rules of Procedure are complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2617	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members, I must first comment, I was a minute outside the hall and I find it interesting that you immediately called me as a member of Konstantinović. So there's a order, maybe it's a coincidence, but I just had to notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2618	Bring the card, next time there'll be no confusion. You're in the O.R. like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2619	So, as far as the proposal for a law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development is concerned, I think it is necessary to put this proposal on the agenda because today, when we all talk about agriculture and the opportunities we have in agriculture, we have to show it in action. We in Serbia have over 630,000 agricultural holdings, small, officially registered and it certainly represents a great potential for our country. However, in order for each of these family and agricultural holdings to be a small family company, the state needs to help and allocate more funds to invest in agriculture, as well as to encourage. Accordingly, as well as to strengthen their agricultural households on the one hand, and on the other hand to fight with global competition, it is necessary to amend certain members of the Encouragement Act. First of all, I think of Article 15(4) where the milk premium is provided for with seven dinars, I propose that there be a minimum of 10 dinars, given that in EU countries the same premium is 24 euro cent or 30 dinars. At the moment, I note, when Serbia takes off the levies on imports of milk, our milk producers will not be competitive, they will have a big problem selling their milk in their country and on their market. We also suggest raising plant production incentives to a minimum of 8,000 dinars, as well as to a minimum of 8,000 for regression, fertilizer, fuel and seed. So agriculture is a branch of an economy that can help Serbia, but must be invested in it. There's no excuse that we don't have enough money to invest in agriculture, but it's just a matter of whether we want it or not. In the end, we can also take some of the funds from "Beograda on Water", invest in agriculture, would certainly have great importance for Serbia, and agriculture will not be able to launch magical solutions such as Arabs or Germans that we represent here in Serbia as drivers of agriculture, but our farmers, whom we must turn to and with incentives, provide assistance and opportunity to develop their own production and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2620	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 19 against 153 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2621	Thank you. Even though we listen to stories from the government of the Republic of Serbia as much as we care about young people, listen to stories about dual education, listen to stories about the importance and reform of education, here I am proposing, for the second time in a row, one addition to the agenda that should be of interest to all of us. I don't see the reason or the first time he's been rejected, but I will repeat it now at this session of the Assembly. It is therefore a proposal to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, where Article 16a provides that local self-governments can arrange, provide for the scholarship of students and students. In today's legislation in the responsibilities of local self-government, it is not explicitly stated that local self-government can scholarship students and students. It creates certain problems for cities and municipalities that want to do so. Therefore, the scholarship in today's legislation in the competences of local self-government is not explicitly stated that local self-government can scholarship students and students, and this creates certain problems for cities and municipalities that want to do so. Therefore, the scholarship of students is to invest in the future of those local self-government that they want and not to have problems with DRI or other institutions that control the work of local self-government, it is necessary to bring the Law on Local Self-Government into line with the Law on Student and Student Standard, where it is already foreseen that units of local self-government can work. This is not only support for students, but also for parents who allocate funds for their students and their students. Today, when we face the fact that in 2015, Serbia left 58,000 people, that's why we need to talk about this today. In a situation where Serbia is second in the world in the number of highly educated personnel leaving it, we also need to talk about this topic. So I think this represents one proposal that is correct, either for position, or for opposition. It concerns the future of our country, and it concerns the future of our young people, and it is about supporting the families of those people who today have students or students. So I think that this will be another way for students and students who, after their completed education or education, whether in a place or in some other cities, should return and stay in their places and actually try to run those places, to make their knowledge and experience that they have acquired the benefits exactly that way. Therefore, I believe that this bill should be found on the agenda and I ask you to accept the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2622	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 16, against – 158 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2623	Thank you. Today when we are facing another fact, which is that from 2014 until today we have the smallest GDP growth since 2000, which is the official data from the Ministry of Finance, we need to see how we can help small and medium-sized enterprises that should be the bearer of business activity in the Republic of Serbia. I have proposed a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, because existing legislation and the Law on corporate tax are provided for certain incentive measures and the Institute of Tax Liberation, but for legal persons who cumulatively employ 100 and more workers who have significant investment in capital. We believe that it is necessary by law to create those legal conditions and to allow not only those large, but primarily small and medium-sized enterprises to have the opportunity to create certain incentives, especially when it comes to the creation of new jobs. I therefore propose a new member of 44a, which says that the taxpayer, who, in the financial year indefinitely and for at least two years employs new workers, reduces the tax base, and the amount of earnings paid by newly employed workers is increased for contributions from mandatory social insurance paid by the employer. I also propose the introduction of a new member of 44b for a newly established legal person in economically underdeveloped municipalities carrying out production work to exempt the profit tax for the first three years since the start of the exercise of activity on profits achieved by the management of operations in an underdeveloped municipality. In this way, we stimulate people to hire new workers, stimulate businesses that need to develop their business, stimulate and entrepreneurial spirit, and on the other hand, we give an opportunity to open new businesses in those underdeveloped parts of Serbia, to open new small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus increase economic activity in the Republic of Serbia. What is still very important here, and what I must mention here, by changing this law, we would in some way respect both our small and medium-sized enterprises and our businessmen so that they are not someone who will be in a subordinate position to those large investors, above all I mean foreign investors who come and take thousands of euros, from five to ten or more, we see even some 20,000 euros per employee. This way, our small entrepreneurs who carry Serbia's economy could gain some benefits and develop their businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2624	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 149 MPs for – 25. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2625	Thank you very much. I've been repeating this proposal for a year. The arguments are as strong today as they were a year ago. So, on April 24th of last year, there have been 100 years since the start of genocide against the Armenians, which was carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922. So it has nothing to do with the current Turkey. It has to do with that time. Over 20 countries including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and others condemned the genocide. The Serbian people, and richly other Serbian citizens, have a lot of reasons to show compassion for the victims of this genocide because we, too, have been victims of genocide for several times in recent history over the past 100 and a few years, 100 years. In order to get an additional argument, the additional right to justifiably seek the condemnation of genocide against Serbian citizens, Serbs and all others, I think it's time to join this dominant group of states that have already done so in the case of genocide against Armenians. This, I repeat, would have had nothing to do with it, nor could it have anything to do with our current foreign policy relations with both Turkey and other countries in the region, but it would have been a way to present one of the misdemeanors done 100 years ago primarily to the Serbian public in a clear light that so far has not existed, and that, I repeat, Serbia gets further arguments to seek the same relationship with its victims in the near past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2626	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. There you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2627	Once again for the fifth or sixth time, I propose to put the session on the agenda, consider and make a positive decision on the draft law on planning and regulation that should address this difficult issue for Serbia. I have already talked about the notion that wild construction is difficult to translate into any language, except for some languages in our environment, and this is the consequence of a common existence in a common country, that in any EU country you can hardly encounter a situation where there is wild construction because it is a thing that has been banned for decades, centuries, where there has never been any social, ethnic, national, weather or any tolerance that has allowed it to happen. In 2003, a good law was passed for the area, which envisioned a prison sentence for those who started construction without a building permit. The law came into force six months after its adoption and in the first case concerning the facility at the time, the minister of infrastructure and construction was violated, so that it was practically not implemented in an adequate manner. A few months ago, we received the Law of Law, which was meant to resolve this issue, as one of many attempts to resolve it. Of course, none of it got rid of it. We have all over Serbia the mass of illegal objects in which people live and for several generations, pay taxes, are connected to electricity, water, sewerage, pay all taxes and have no right to, say, mortgage this object or use it in some other way. They can't even sell it legally now. It's all the result of a bad situation in that area. Of course, we have this little building thing in Belgrade and it's built without permission. The most recent example is “Belgrade on Water”. As we've learned, the ministry responsible for the area has refused to issue a permit for the construction of the so-called so-called area. The towers, which no longer resemble the tower according to the new project, are broken down, but it doesn't matter, because they say it's not filed according to the regulations, and otherwise it's said, once again, by the Prime Minister and those around it, that it's built there in the largest. So that's where we have the public service, the public service, and all the other services, whoever they are, we have the public commendation of the Prime Minister to build something against regulations. That's why it's necessary to pass a good law. That text of the law has been in the process for a year. Anyone who could show their literacy by reading could plead to it and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2628	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2629	Thank you very much. And this is a little older proposal, but the current is daily, so it won't be any greater damage that it hasn't already been adopted, but it would be good to be adopted to prevent further damage. A very simple law, very dangerous for the current authority, says that in the Law on Higher Education, in Article 4 after point 1a, which reads – academic congratulation, Article 2, that Article 5 becomes a member of 5a, and the essence is that academic integrity is based on independent writing, as well as on strict respect for other people's copyrights, which is obviously something that has not been respected in Serbia for the last ten years. We see intensively people in the highest state functions who have explicitly failed to respect it, by the president of the state, the interior minister, the mayor of Belgrade and who knows who else. This is just the front row, probably hundreds of people who have reached out to other people's copyrights in making written papers, and also that they have plagiarized, some even their own works. I got a response from the government a few weeks ago, where they say the government is about to solve this problem in this law with a new bill of law, but not in this way, because my proposal deals only with written papers. Of course, for someone who knows little about the Serbian language, it is clear that this sentence, which reads – academic honesty is based on the independent creation of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights, the text behind the score or the commas fully covers all forms of protection of other people's copyrights. So, it would be good to put this proposal on the agenda. The space has been created, and I see that the assembly majority has not voted in favour of five or six government proposals, which is very good. We don't know what this is about, but it sounds good to me in general. Since there is this space and there is no doubt of the will of the MPs to work night and day and in the rain and in the snow and whenever it is necessary for the benefit of Serbian citizens, I urge you to put this good bill on the agenda by your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2630	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2631	Thank you very much. Here I propose to add Article 49a, which reads – It is forbidden to rent terms in all electronic media broadcasts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia under electoral candidates for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. So, to translate, if not clear, the proposal is to abolish the possibility of commercial advertising of political parties and other voters on the electronic media. Why? Both in the last elections and in the elections before them and in many elections before that, it was obvious that the ruling parties at that time had a huge advantage over the opposition by having, of course, much more money, which legally, which is illegal, and much more opportunities, which legal, which is criminal, to spend a lot more money in political marketing, to take much more time on the media, and to inform their messages in an illegal manner, a large number of citizens, more than the opposition can do. Of course we should also fight against the crime of the practice, but here is the first step to combat the legal act. Because these are not the money of political parties, as we know, they are the money of the taxpayers of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia. They hardly, paying taxes on any basis, had the desire to watch the foolish commercials of those they would vote for or those they would not vote for. Not to go deeper into the aesthetic assessment of those commercials, that's not the subject. The theme is to create equality between political participants in the political campaign. What's the criminal way to do it? By paying these services through public enterprises, public institutions, through actions conducted by the government, televisions reportedly to advertise the fight against white plague, security in Transport, protection against what, and in fact, in advance, the large part of the time bought to broadcast political messages is paid illegally. What's the alternative? They say, "Well, people won't know what political messages are." The alternative is what we haven't had in the last four years, which is that the president of the ruling party sits down with his political inexplicables in public debate on some television and faces opinions in the simplest way, without spending a few taxpayers. That didn't happen, because the president of the biggest ruling party currently doesn't have the courage to go to such a duel.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2632	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 161 MPs. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the person's responsibility for the destruction of those facilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2633	Thank you. Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were firstly confused by public statements of state officials when it came to violence in the Belgrade settlement of Savamal, when on the night of April 24, while the votes were numbered, dozens of thieves with phantoms and baseball bats kidnapped citizens, destroyed private property, while police did not respond to the call of frightened and frightened citizens, the municipal police did not want to go out on the ground because they said it was not their jurisdiction but the authority of police, and in those few hours the constitution was abolished, the laws were abolished, Belgrade became an insecure place for life, as it claims, of course, and a study of security, which Belgrade placed second to the most insecure cities in Europe, immediately after Kiev. I suggested the poll committee for the simple reason that at one point, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia announced that the destruction of objects in Savamala, illegal destruction, and violence were blamed by the highest city authorities in Belgrade. Meanwhile, we have a statement by the mayor of Belgrade, which claims that the prime minister did not mean the top of the city's government and then we do not know who it is, on the basis of which information, claimed that the city's top authority was involved, and on the other hand, we obviously do not have information on which the mayor of Belgrade claims that it is not the city of Belgrade that is involved in this violence. The survey board would, of course, establish all the facts and according to the report of the Citizens' Protectors, who is more than famous to the public, determine everything that caused this violence, what was preceded and what were the consequences, because if we take into account that city services had been removing evidence from the Savamala area for days afterwards, where private facilities were used as a warehouse and the disposal of someone's belongings, which, for the housing, were torn down by a bunch of people who had boys and who kidnapped a man, took his mobile phone. Unfortunately, that witness is no longer among the living. I'm not pointing any finger at this violence. Believe me, I'd be happy to do that if I had proof. I still don't have proof. A few councilmen and MPs are really committed to this case and I think if there's anything that exists and it's hiding, then I understand that you're not going to adopt this proposal. If you're not hiding anything, let's adopt a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2634	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote for the vote – 17 against – no one, the abstentioned, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for expropriation and issue of building permits for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2635	This question we have been asking here for more than a year is where the public interest is and where Serbian citizens have interest in building the "Belgrade on Water" project. Lex specialis is a child of an interstate agreement between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which serves to further enrich the tycoons from the United Arab Emirates at the expense of the resources and property of Serbian citizens. I remind you that this project was supposed to provide three and a half billion euros in investment, and we ended up with only 150 million. When the contract that emerged from the Lex specialis determines how many years this project is being built and the sum is divided by 30 years, Belgrade and Serbia have annually from the joint venture "Belgrade on Water" only fivem euros. With five million euros a year, you cannot start a construction industry, which was the basis for this law. With fivem euros a year, you cannot build absolutely nothing in Serbia and Belgrade, except for apartments that will be used by tycoons, whose square is three and a half thousand euros. Who's gonna live here? That's where the shopping mall is built, that's where some bar is going to be run by some of the top SNS. Where is the public interest in the citizens of Belgrade? Where is the goal here of what our society should look like? We have people leaving Serbia every day, 58 thousand in 2016, that's OECD data. These are the bravest, those who know how to work, leaders have left our country and live abroad, and we give our resources to tycoons from another country to be richer than they are, to build not social housing for young couples, not social housing for young scientists, not apartments for those who won medals at the science Olympics, but only for those who have money to buy an apartment for three and a half thousand euros per square. And where's the public interest? What will Serbian citizens benefit from here? So, Lex specialis has to be put out of power, because we want to live in an orderly country, in an orderly society where the rule of law rules, not the rule of several people who will allow someone to build a shopping mall, a hotel and a pub and declare it a public interest. There is no public interest here, this is past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, past the interest of Serbian citizens who will pay all of this with reduced salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2636	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed the agenda of the session to be completed by the point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2637	Thank you, President of the Assembly. This agreement is a roof deal for Serbia's robbery. Young people who know something, young people who are brave leave the country because they have no conditions to acquire their property here and bind their fate to this country. On the other hand, this agreement allows tycoons, both domestic and foreign, from the United Arab Emirates to be even richer than they are, to the heart of those leaving Serbia. So, for ours there are no conditions, but for them there are conditions. This raises a great commitment to us, and this is a question of what our goal is and what kind of society we want to have in Serbia. A state where there is no respect for the Constitution, a state where laws or a state that cares for its people who will not leave this country tomorrow, a state in which laws are respected and its Constitution respected? I think it is very important to point out that the Agreement allowed the adoption of a Lex of Specialists and the Treaty on "Belgrade on Water" because it has privileged a certain group of people who have found themselves in a better position than all other Serbian citizens to not only build on the Sava amphitheater area, but also to have the possibility, when it comes to agricultural land in Serbia, to get it under the well-fused conditions of long-term lease, without tender, without a public call, that we do not have a public competition for ideas solutions. We've turned into a third-world country, where rules, laws and the Constitution don't apply, where the rule of law is not respected. Then it's no wonder that 58,000 people leave Serbia this year alone. More than 130 thousand have gone from 2012 to today, for these four years. So I have to remind myself that it's those who are leaders in their fields, those who have courage, those who have knowledge. If Serbia does not preserve the knowledge of staying here, we will be a society of slaves in ten years from today. We will have those who work on strips for ten hours in diapers, and those who are labour for those areas that are high-tech development, they will leave Serbia and help other countries in their development. I think this is very important to know, this agreement must be terminated in this assembly. This is a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian Parliament for allowing tycoons from another country to take and rob our resources, while our young people cannot find a job in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2638	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote. The vote was - 16, against - no one with abstentions voted 146 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2639	Thank you. In 2000. The Democratic Party, I remind you, has paid back the pensioners' debts. It will do so again, given that the constitution, in this case committed by the Serbian government, has done so by a number of pensioners, 700,000 of whom pensions are unconstitutional and against legal cuts. People had a coefficient based on contributions that paid their whole lives. Pensions are acquired right, pensions are assets you can't take away from someone. On the other hand, the government says and argues that the reason for the unconstitutional pension cuts is that financial consolidation is being carried out and that this money will be spent more wisely than before. He didn't spend it on their grandkids getting a job. The money from the pension savings, i.e. the withdrawal of pensions, was not spent on schools, kindergartens, young couples, not on children, on school buses, on toilets in primary schools. He spent his time building "Belgrade on Water", he spent on subsidising private televisions from many municipalities and cities in front of SNS, he spent on anti-legal destruction of Savala. That is why the budget will make up for what was done as damage to persons when it comes to the destruction of private property. So, the list of priorities absolutely doesn't exist. We didn't give the young scholarships. We've abolished subsidies when it comes to baby packages, when it comes to pregnant women and maternity mothers, we've abolished a lot of things that concern...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2640	The way you offered to pay your pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2641	That's right. We have abolished as Serbia, many things that have helped our citizens to reduce pensions and wages, a better quality of life, but we have kidnapped pensioners on the other hand, and I think, that is, you have done it. I propose this law by emergency procedure to reduce the catastrophic consequences, because today pensioners lose their dignity. You take away what is theirs in this way, it is property they have acquired with bloody work and I think it is a shame that the constitutional courts of many countries, Portugal, Greece, Italy, have solved this problem because they have declared it unconstitutional and that Serbia is silent about this. The Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges did not say the constitutionality of this law, they spoke only about the explanation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. That's inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2642	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Otherwise, you suggested a regular procedure, so it can't be urgent. You'll do it again. I'm closing the vote. The vote - 17 against - no one with abstentions voted 144 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the Proposal of the Criminal Code Supplement Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2643	Thank you. In the previous meeting of the RS Assembly, MP Dragan Sutanovac had an idea and fought for this law, for a law that will largely protect victims of domestic violence and not only domestic violence but violence in all areas of society. Several members are added to the Criminal Law. Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 87a. They add and change. What is very important is that this is about the enormous increase in criminal acts of violence in 2015 and 2016. There's no politics here. It's a domestic violent behavior that, when a report of violent behavior is recorded, someone has to take away the weapons they have in their home at the same time. On the other hand, he must not be allowed to carry a weapon, he must not be allowed to be given a gun authorisation, because it has happened several times, I repeat, there has been a history of domestic violence, that the police have reported, that the man let go, that he should not be taken away from him, that a week later someone with his private weapons at home will kill half the family. Please, this is a matter of people's safety in Serbia. Please, together with this law proposed by Dragan Sutanovac in the last term, we all support it together. There's a lot of dust going around him because this is really how we protect people's lives when it comes to, first of all, family and any other violence. We must take away the weapons that they have under the law, for they must not keep their weapons under the law those who are recorded as violent or as perpetrators of domestic violence. Once again, I ask you, if you need to do this together, this is a joint proposal, but it is a proposal that greatly narrows down the possibility of those things happening in 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and years ago, that someone who is registered and has a weapon by law, use that weapon a few days after domestic violence. It's really important, and I don't think there's any reason why the SNS Parliament Club refuses this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2644	I am putting this motion to the agenda of today's session. I'm closing the vote. The vote was - 16, against - no one with abstentions voted 146 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the town known as Savala, on 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2645	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, there are a lot of reasons for forming this polling committee and counterpart Balsa Bozovic has a similar initiative as the initiative of my parliamentary group, which is that, as we say almost six months of the system's institution has been doing so, we do not get an answer about what happened on the night between April 24th and 25th of this year in Savamaloj, and that for several hours, the state of Serbia in that territory has ceased to exist, we think that the answer is that in the Serbian Assembly a polling committee will form an answer to these questions. The favorite thinker, the sociologist of our Prime Minister, sociologist Max Webber, gave the definition of the state as a human community that lays the right to a monopoly of physical strength. What is our question and the essence of what we want to get an answer to, who gave up the state and its unique monopoly on force that night and gave some people the right to apply force to citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia? If that could have happened then, without punishment, then it's just a question of when it's going to happen again and that's why we think this question is very important and that we have to get an answer to it. We have six months of silence from the system's institutions. We submitted this proposal on June 6th, two days before the Prime Minister, and then the prime minister or technical prime minister, I don't know how to properly define that function, he said that the city's top is responsible for the collapse in Savamola. So, it's been four months since then. We did not put this issue in the proposal on the establishment of this polling committee, but it is quite certain that this is a key question whether the prime minister was heard by the prosecutor, since he had knowledge of the execution of the crime and told the prosecutor of his findings, which he then told the public that he had firm knowledge that he had previously had some doubts and secondary knowledge, but that at that moment, when he spoke and addressed the citizens, he was responsible for the top of the city government, then he had accurate knowledge of who he was and why he was responsible. Is it, among other issues, and the question we are looking for is whether the Prime Minister has been heard by the prosecutor to answer who is responsible for the collapse in Savamalaj from the top of the city government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2646	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 12, against – no one with abstention – 147 MPs voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I understand you've been trading with Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Is that okay? National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2647	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities is together with that of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and it also concerns changes in order to prohibit, that is to say, the possibility of commercial advertising of political parties and other applicants of the electoral lists in the elections. I've made the main arguments, but I can repeat them. The main arguments are that the ruling party is favoured in this way, which at that time, which in a legal and illegal way is spending people's money, the money of Serbian citizens from the budget for the maximum aesthetically unacceptable, morally unacceptable advertising of their political ideas, goals and programmes, thus putting other promoters in a poor, negative position. Of course it doesn't always determine the election will of citizens. Of course it happens and vice versa, that those who have invested tens of millions of losses in the election and that will happen in the future. But, in general, it is not a question of how and what will happen to the political parties, their leaders and those who do bad things in those videos, but what about the people's money. There's a lot of money being spent from both budgets, both directly and indirectly and legally, I repeat, and illegally. That's money that's much bigger than, say, saving money from those cuts to local self-government that you voted seven days ago, and with that money, you can do a lot of things, first of all, that kids don't treat text messages. That's the basic thing we need. So, it's not humanity, it's a shame for one country, that we have commercials on television, which are of course free, but it still invites citizens to treat children from severe diseases with humanity that is shown through text messages, and on the other hand, tens of millions of euros are spent on advertising public enterprises, which is actually advertising the party that is leading them and political parties within the campaign. If you compare these two amounts, there would be absolutely enough money to treat all patients and children and older than all diseases that are incurable in health institutions in Serbia. So that's the essence of my proposal, and I think the argument is very clear. Finally, in half of the EU countries it is the law, so there is no commercial advertising of political parties ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2648	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 12, against – no one with abstention – 146 MPs voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2649	This proposal, proposed before the last elections, amends Article 11. The Government Act and the title above it, and now they should read – Health Skills Point, Incompatibility and Conflict of Interest; Article 11 prior to the Government's election, every proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies; a member of the Government cannot be in any other public office in the state body, etc. What's a change? The change is that health check is necessary for future members of the government for the functions, the difficult functions that await them. I repeat, in Serbia's political practice it was already present in 2001 when candidates for the first democratic government of Zoran Djindjic were subjected to a medical examination at a place that is referenced to it, which is VMA. It's not a special examination. It's a review that's the same one that all the people who want to work in the state authorities with a little bit of increased responsibility, that means from the porters to the next. Therefore, I don't think this law should wait here the way he's welcomed by the fact that it's an attempt to insult or I don't know what it is. On the contrary, it's a minimal thing, because if such things had happened, we wouldn't have, let's just say, this situation that's caused by an abnormal behavior of power. He says - The Chamber of Commerce in the Kingdom, with the solution of that, entered an amendment – the primary school “Rastko Nemmalić Sava”, Dojević, is deleted and the primary school “Kalifa Binzaid Al Nahtjan” is enrolled in this place, and then the same in English, based in Dojevic. Is that proof of tolerance? I'm sure our Bosniak friends can't agree that eradicating St. Sava from the name of a school and changing it by name I don't know which ruler I don't know which state, I don't even know if he's alive, whether he's dead. Under the old law, you couldn't give names of living people to schools, streets, anything like that. Of course, tolerance should have been shown in some other way, to create a new school in the neighboring village, in addition to getting the name of a credited Bosniak in that area, not to delete St. Sava, as it says, deletes St. Sava. That's why you need to go through it, because whoever's trying to wipe out the Holy Sava or some other great man from these places, regardless of the nation, is not normal and he can't be in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2650	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 143 MPs for – 18. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2651	Thank you. On March 13, 2015, seven people lost their lives in a rescue mission of a helicopter, which ended in a tragedy and a crash of a aircraft near the "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade. Why the board of inquiry? To determine the responsibility and all the circumstances that led to the rescue mission and then to the tragic end and the disappearance of seven people. The two commissions of the Serbian Army and, as we learn now, never really launched a prosecutor's investigation into this case, the contents of this report, are sufficient reason to see that when we read them, we need a survey committee composed of one MP from each parliamentary group, which would determine who informed former Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic of the need to launch a rescue mission. Who tipped him off? There's no record of that. He tried to hide and who's the deputy prosecutor, and how, and how, and how, and how long, he's been leading the investigation. Unfortunately, we now testify that once you begin to mock the rule of law, there is no end to it, and the damage is always common. So, who tipped him off? Who did he get the information from? According to reports, we know that no written co-ordination has been respected, that Minister Gasic has given orders to launch a rescue mission orally. In October 2015, two generals of the Serbian Army, Generals Bandic and Zivak, were punished by disciplinary measures. They would probably be punished in March 2015 if they refused the Minister's oral orders, as everyone knows that such a kind of order had to be written. Why can't two decent soldiers have the right to rule of law? Why did we have to keep quiet on the pages filled with defamation, slander and disgrace of Omer Mehic, explaining that he was the cause of a helicopter accident in his drunkenness? I don't know how much moral deficit you have to have so you can agree to such a campaign and to such messages - use this, so we agreed. I can't imagine if people like that sleep peacefully. They're probably sleeping peacefully. They probably don't miss anything, but I don't think any of us have the right to sleep peacefully without making a joint decision about determining all the circumstances. Who informed Minister Gasic? Where does he get information that the baby needs help anywhere? Who changed the flight plan? Was there communication to private telecommunications devices in the helicopter? Until we figure it out, it's not gonna be good for anybody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2652	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: For – 18, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2653	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, unfortunately not the public, since today the public is disfellowshipped from our work, I would like to draw your attention to several legislative proposals. I suppose the chairman will now give me the right to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, explain a few of the laws that I propose we discuss today. I think it is particularly important that you consider these draft laws, given that on the agenda of this session again, as well as a week ago, there is only one single legislative proposal, and this legislative proposal for amendments and additions, proposed by the Government, which has only four members. I think that nearly six months after the election, which has been called to move with new energy and even faster into reforms, this way of work does not justify even calling elections, the enormous energy and money that was then spent, and everything that this country is waiting for to transform and become a modern European state. One of the laws is amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, which was brought somewhere near the end of the previous call, and we propose in the amendments and additions to this Law several interventions. The first is to include art photography in the cultural work. There was then an association protest and an indication that art photography in the largest number of countries, in almost all modern countries, was recognised as a work of art and that what the state of Serbia is not doing is bad, that it will further reduce the rights of artistic photographers, their and such difficult existence for copyright violations, and that we believe that the need to correct this error by amending and supplementing the Law on Culture. The second thing, which was a lot of controversy back then, was the story of pensions for prominent cultural workers, artists, and then the original idea of the legislator was to completely end it. Then, however, under public pressure, this possibility remains in the law, but is said in exceptional cases, without being defined in the very law which are exceptional cases. The minister was left for arbitration, and we propose to introduce an obligation for the state to those most prominent artists, who receive international and most international domestic awards, to secure a national pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2654	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 140, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2655	Respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, this law was finally brought in at the end of the last term when parliament worked and achieved its basic legislative role. However, only the adoption of this law has not yet produced effects, in our opinion, poorly, because its entry into force, or application, has been delayed for 1 January of the following year. We therefore believe that some interventions are needed to make this law less bad and to manage to respond to that proposal's intention, which is to introduce order into the entire pay system. What we think is bad is that the adopted law in this system does not include salaries of employees in public enterprises, public media service and the National Bank of Serbia. We know for ourselves that there are the highest proportions and the highest wages in the public sector are precisely in this area, in public enterprises where there is almost no control. We can see they're dividing thirteenths, fourteenths, and I don't know what they pay in monopoly companies that just can't make a profit, given their monopoly position on the market. We feel it is necessary to make this change so that real order can be introduced and that it is indeed known, to come to the same job, to work in any part of the public sector, whether it is a state administration or a public enterprise or a NBS, a public service, receives the same salary. Next thing you know, this law is in our opinion very negative for employees. In many ways, it reduces their rights, and we believe that this has to change, to apply fairer solutions to unscheduled workers, since they can now, without any reason, get unsettled status, get paid for several months, and then automatically ceases their employment. We also believe that a member who speaks of the budgetary limit set as something that needs to be met should be abolished, the ultimate objective is budgetary constraints, respect for the budget, and not the achievement of the role that a state body or public undertaking should play. We think that's the wrong principle. We think all these organs exist to do some work, not to respect the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2656	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—13 against—there is no one who voted, 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2657	Thank you, Mr. President. By the way, today is International Girl Day, and this law would in a certain way help to achieve those goals that are otherwise promoted on today, which is the right to education, health care and other human needs. Unfortunately, what has moved us to submit this bill is the fact that it has not been changed since 2009 and despite the great story of Serbia having a major problem with birth and that there is something to be done to make a trend that has existed for many years, that more citizens of Serbia die annually than they are born to change. The reality today is sad, defeating. The data suggests that only 25% of children exercise some right under this law, while in 2000 that percentage was 50%. We have proposed several solutions, I will try some of them to explain to you, but this is quite a major change of law and it certainly requires a serious discussion and we regret that in the past five years, almost five years, as far as the new majority in the Republic of Serbia has been formed, there has been no hearing about these issues, and not one single time has the amendment and addition of this law been found before the MPs. Our idea is to make it easier to achieve the censorship needed to achieve a child's supplement, as basic measures to support families with children. We believe that through this change and several other children who would achieve this right could quickly, very quickly, increase to 50%, and given the excellent state of budget that we listen daily from both the prime minister and the government, that would not be a problem, because if in the budget, as we hear a billion euros more, I think spending a few dozen million euros should not be a problem. This bill also deals with the problem of single parents. The devastating fact today is that one third of single parents live in households where the monthly income per household member is below 10,000 dinars and the fact that the largest number of poor people and those who are at risk of poverty are just coming from families living with only one parent. This law should provide greater support for foster families as well as for many other things. I urge you to put this law on the agenda today, and to discuss improving the position of not only girls, but all children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2658	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2659	Thank you, Madam President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly passed the Law on the temporary arrangement of how pensions were paid two years ago. In the last year, our Social Democratic Break parliamentary group, the People's Movement Forward Serbia, has proposed that we pass a law on the termination of this law, which is primarily due to restore those pensions to the level paid by October 2014 when the law was passed. At that time, completely unclearly, according to the unclear criteria, the government came with a bill that unfortunately the assembly majority adopted that all pensioners with pensions of more than 25,000 dinars for a 10% percentage that goes from 10, in some cases and more than 25% reduction of legally acquired pensions, their legally acquired assets, justifying all of this to the difficult material situation and the problems that exist in the Republic of Serbia's budget. After a year of applying the law, we started hearing stories about how the situation in Serbian finances is never better, best in the world, and that there is no longer a deficit in the Serbian budget, but a surplus. We listened last week, I repeat, that surplus is over 120 billion dinars. Savings per year under this law were estimated at around 300m to 330m euros. If it is true that we hear that there is a surplus of one billion euros in the budget, then it is quite clear that they have created conditions that this law which is primarily unfair, because it does not affect everything and affects those most vulnerable who cannot even fight for their rights, because unfortunately you cannot expect 600, 700,000 people, retired in late years, to protest and fight for their rights, which is the only thing left for them after such measures and decisions by the government. According to us, we've come to terms that the law ceases to apply. We suggest that, after its entry into force, pensions return to the level at which they were before the reduction in 2014, and that the difference that has not been paid in the previous two years be paid in the next year in the 12 months' war. We believe that you should support this law, because the Law on the Temporary Editing of the Way of Retirement is unfair and humiliating for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2660	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2661	Thank you esteemed presidents, fellow MPs, question of how the tax was once called on an electric number, and today the taxes for public media services that are charged in exactly the same way as by 2014 with an electricity bill delivered to every citizen who has a count. When it was brought in, in addition to breaking who knows what promise of the ruling majority that this tax would be abolished, and after just a little over a year it was returned, this solution that was adopted has brought about a new injustice. In fact, the law stipulates that the taxpayer is the owner of each electric number whether it is a person physically or legally owned by several electric numbers. Since the law did not provide for the possibility of freeing itself, for example, the owner of an electric counter in the garage, at an auxiliary facility in the household, these people today several times pay this tax. Although today maybe that tax isn't that big, 150 dinars, it's 150 dinars just by the end of the year, I'll remind you. Next year, it could be up to 500 dinars, according to the law, depending on how the board of public media services will decide. We therefore believe that it is necessary to make this amendment that speaks of only one individual, or legal person, to pay the subscription, rather than a few, as is the case so far. We heard today and from the ruling majority MPs who asked what to do with such cases, what the government will do to change that, here because the government is not working, even if they don't send the laws, has sent only two for these two months, we are giving you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Media Services that needs to solve this problem and to allow this tax which was one of the many unfulfilled and false promises of the ruling party to pay more justly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2662	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2663	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad to hear the approval of some MPs for this law. It sounds a little ruckus, but he's just our idea to propose a law like this, is the fact that there are no clear rules on how laws are proposed. There are general provisions that are most often misused in terms of passing and proposing laws by emergency procedure and statistics in the previous meeting is devastating - 54% of the laws, adopted by the Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed an urgent procedure. They entered the procedure within a few days, were brought without a public debate, without interested factors being able to say their opinion, the professional public, without being on time and familiar with the consequences of the laws passed, and then such laws produced many problems in their application and then returned to parliament for further processing. To change these things, we have proposed a proposal for this law, which is a little more detailed in the process of proposing laws -- which are exceptional cases where laws can be proposed by emergency procedure and how the assembly deals with such laws. We think that this assembly, of course, is difficult to count and make statistics, given the two proposed laws in total by the Government of Serbia, one of which was in regular procedure, but here's the one that we've put on the agenda today has come by emergency procedure and if the need for its adoption has been discussed months ago and some deadlines, it should have been, I don't know, October 1st, then October 10th, the law we've passed today, we'll discuss it, we'll only adopt it by the end of the week, and we think it's bad, because that's what the law refers to in suspense. They don't know in the end, because here's the public excluded from this session, there's no TV transmission, they can't even know what the laws of the Assembly are about, what they're about to bring, what they're about to do, how it's going to affect their lives, and we think that's why it's necessary to pass one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2664	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2665	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs, we have been trying for over a year to get your support on the agenda of the bill. Its essence is that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate, not 20 as it is now, but 10%. We've been trying to explain to you and point out a number of parent problems that are based on family, family with children, small children, who have to buy daily food for babies and children. The fact that they are in a difficult material state, which is why, unfortunately, the growing number of families decide to raise their offspring. We have proposed this measure, as a single beginning and a symbolic gesture that should change things in Serbia. Unfortunately, we couldn't get your support, and when we spoke once when we amended the VAT law with the finance minister in this House, he felt that one such measure would probably not have much effect, he called for another measure that exists in the VAT return law, and that this is a much better way to support the state for families with children. Unfortunately, we now hear that the government has the intention to abolish and so much before we feel that this proposal is worthy of your attention, given that the only reason the minister said that adoption of such a change would bring additional administration to the tax authorities. We think that the tax authorities, since they haven't been working for two years, don't issue tax solutions to businessmen who pay their taxes on a flat-rate basis, there's plenty of time to determine what this law provides, which is just to sign what it is for babies who would then tax themselves with a lower VAT rate and by adopting this measure, I'm sure they would give a small but absolutely significant contribution to families with children and help them to get gray or I don't even know how to describe the picture, which tells us how many babies in Serbia are born today and what the future is, that this law could help, as well as a bill that didn't get your support, and it's about money support for families with children. I call on you, however, to put this bill on the agenda and do something for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2666	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law on changes and additions to the safety and health laws at work. Here you go. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – three, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for – two against – 159 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please, before we determine the agenda, let's check the quorum. Please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find 133 MPs present. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – six abstentions – there are none, there are not nine MPs. I find that the Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. Please allow the services to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, from the list of candidates submitted by authorised applicants; 2. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels Željzare Smederevo d.o.o. Brown; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci-Takovo and Takovo-Preljina highway E – 763 in the Republic of Serbia since 2 February 2012; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act; 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the purpose of bringing in the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going to work on a set agenda. The first item of the agenda – the selection of members of the Board of REGIONAL BODY FOR ELECTRONIC MEDIA, from the list of candidates submitted by the Authorised Proposers Please, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit applications for a word with the order of Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 192, paragraphs 3 and 193 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Does the committee's rapporteur, Snezana Paunovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2667	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly, in accordance with the law, is obliged to elect members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media because of the end of the term of office of one of the previous REM members. For this reason, as I have already said, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, Competent Services and the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they have conducted the legal procedures laid down in relation to the completion of these vacant seats of REM members. The Board of Regulators, which notes, consists of nine members, has vacant three members of the REM Council, including the following representatives: associations whose objectives are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children, associations of electronic media publishers and associations of journalists and competent committees of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. At its session, held on June 28th, the Committee on Culture and Information found that Gordani Sushi, representative of the Association of Electronic Media Publishers and the Association of Journalists, expired on 23 May 2016. The public invitation to elect a member of the REM Council was published on 15 August 2016 in the daily list "Politika", and on 17 August 2016 in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as on the website of the National Assembly. Proposers shall be authorised, on the basis of Article 10(2). The Law on Electronic Media, within 15 days of the day of publication, submitted their proposals to the Committee on Culture and Information and, with the proposals of the candidates, provided all the necessary documentation prescribed by law. The National Assembly's competent service has provided representatives with a space to hold a meeting in order to establish a joint proposal for two candidates, i.e. a list of two candidates. On the list of candidates submitted by the Authorised Proposer of the Association of Electronic Media Publishers and the Association of Journalists, Biljana Ratković Zvan and Goran Pekovic are on the list. On the basis of the agreement reached and in accordance with Article 11(8) of the Law, the Committee held talks with the proposed candidates on 22 September 2016 and concluded that it was directed to the National Assembly. Also, the mandate expired on 18 February 2016 in Goran Karadzic, who was in the body as a representative of the competent board of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which was elected for a period of six years. The public invitation to elect a member of the REM Council was also published on 15 August 2016 in the daily "Politika" and 17 August 2016 in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", of course, as well as on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The authorising officer had 15 days to submit his proposals to the Committee on Culture and Information on the basis of Article 10(2) of the Law, which he did. In addition to the candidates' proposals, all the necessary documentation prescribed by the Electronic Media Act has been submitted. On 22 September 2016, the Committee also held a discussion with these proposed candidates and concluded that the list of candidates submitted by the competent committee of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which includes Siniša Isakov and Djordje Bozarevic, had been submitted to the National Assembly because they had obtained the conditions for implementing the selection procedure for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The Committee on Culture and Information sent reports to the National Assembly from the held sessions, which list all the elements of the procedures implemented, as well as the biographies of REM members proposed by the law by authorised applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2668	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2669	Dear Presidents, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, before I begin a general debate on REM members, I would just like to look back on those duties in general by this regulatory body. It is not rare for citizens to wonder, not just citizens, but politicians, often wondering who is in charge of getting the starlets and reality off our media. It's ReM that institution that's in charge of it. However, REM does not work. REM is responsible for protection, then it is also responsible for developing media freedom and development of opinion. Also, REM is responsible for protecting the public interest and must take care of the quality of the programme as such. Can I talk later because I'm not feeling very well right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2670	You can, after all the MPs, and we'll see when it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2671	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2672	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2673	Thank you, Madam President. On 19 January 2016, I quoted the current prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who at the time explained his decision to call early parliamentary elections. I'm going to quote it again today. At the time, he said he needed a full mandate to support the people in order for Serbia to be ready to join the EU as a partner for making difficult decisions, and among other things, to make the civil sector more respected and make the media free to make Serbia more prominent in the world. Following the latest report on the progress of the European Union, as well as the Declaration of the Parliamentary Committee on Association, which was recently held right here in the Parliament building, it is stressed as a lack of progress in the field of the media that we are talking about today and in whose membership we are choosing candidates today. In the meantime, it seems to us in the DS that we are getting further away from the European Union, and today it is a question for all of us whether we are still from those values of European or democratic ones based on the respect of the rule of law, to respect the power and respect for the independence of regulatory bodies, therefore, have we made any progress here. I think we'll prove that, unfortunately, we didn't. An example is exactly one I would say, even a soap opera or a political thriller that lasted for months, will be almost a year when it comes to selecting members of the REM Council. Nearly last year, in public view, Serbian citizens, the Serbian Assembly or this high home, as we often like to highlight it, has been abused as the country's most important democratic institution in order to force the parliamentary majority to choose a single candidate, in advance, without democratic debate and without respect for procedures. It will be seen from the accompanying that it is one person that I do not want to talk about personally, but I want to talk about it only in the context of respect for the procedure and the fact that at all costs we wanted to get to the point where all the procedures, all the rules, that it was chosen in this place. I would also like to remind, for the sake of reminders, the MPs of some of whom, among other things, are new to this council and citizens when they expired or expired the mandates for these three seats we choose today. Mr. Goran Pekovic's mandate expired on 16 December 20115, Porfirija Perić and Goran Karadzic on 26 March 2016 and Gordani Sushi on 23 March this year during the election campaign. We now have a few questions to ask. Why has this process lasted so long, especially when it comes to the choice of place in front of NGOs or civil society organisations dealing with human rights and children's rights? The selection process for this place began on 13 October 2015 and, as we can see, it only ends today. So the question is, why did it happen? The question is also raised, given that the law in its Article 11 says – from the moment the Committee on Culture determines the list of candidates, that list must go to the plenary session at the first next session of the Assembly, that period since the list was selected and confirmed on the Committee on Culture and Information on 4 February 2016, eight sessions, seven in an extraordinary and one in a regular session, were held until the vote was called, in order for the list to be put on the agenda at the last session or one of the last before the elections were called and magically immediately and withdrawn. Why? From the attached and all the circumstances that happened afterwards, we can conclude only one thing – in the meantime, a competition for selecting candidates in front of members of journalists' associations is being held, and, behold, on this list, Mr. Pekovic now appears again. We conclude that this was the reason why, despite the violation of the Law on Electronic Media, a member in front of NGOs and civil society organisations to this day, he was not elected, although the process lasted almost a year, in order to actually open up the possibility of selecting a desirable person by another channel or another, obviously desirable person, for a place on this council. The question arises – why? It is a question for all of us and for the public and for the citizens of Serbia. Why is this all important? We can and I think that very often, unfortunately, we have abused the fact that it is a very complex, technically not always understandable, process for citizens, to cloud what is the essence of this issue. It is no secret that the main topic in Serbia in recent years is not only the freedom of the media, which has been said a lot and I hope a being and more, but about what kind of programme the citizens of Serbia are looking at. Is that the quality that we MPs advocate? Are those reality shows? Are these scandalous shows full of violence and vulgarity seen in times when both young people and citizens of Serbia could watch educational programmes, cultural programs and be timely and properly informed? That's what this agency is doing where we choose people today who need to defend that very public interest. It is our job to prevent those who will defend personal, particular, political or any other private interest from being elected to that agency, but exclusively public interest. Also, why does it matter? To remind us of Article 22. The law on electronic media. What's this advice doing? What's this agency doing? Issues of media service permits, regulates the criteria for issuing licences, manages the register, controls the work of the media, therefore, does not control either the Government or the Assembly but rather this regulatory independent body, expresses certain measures, encourages preservation, pay attention, and protects Serbian culture and languages and cultures of national minorities, encourages the development of creation, promotes the development of professionalism and editorial independence. On the board of directors, we have asked candidates who are on the agenda today, especially one of them who has already been in this agency for one term. We asked him – what did you personally do to encourage the development of creation, to improve the programme, to encourage the development of professionalism and editorial independence? We didn't get a good answer. Also, I would like to highlight the importance of this agency when it comes to other decisions, and my colleagues and colleagues may also talk about it in the follow-up to the debate, but it concerns the importance of public services because the regulatory agency for electronic media is directly responsible for the work of public media services, primarily by selecting board members. Over the past period, it can be clearly seen that this agency wanted to strengthen public media services, would not lead the process of selecting board members in a non-transparent way, without providing any clear answer to legitimate questions sent by the public professional, civil, civil and us as MPs. That's why I think and maybe I'm going to step forward, through another example, which is an example of how he's chosen and how he's going to be elected candidate in front of the AP Vojvodina promoter. Given that we already had a list here in front of the Assembly, which was completely legitimate, the MPs of the majority before the election called did not want to trust either of those two candidates at the time. Now we have a new list. There's one on it that's been to the last one. Since he wasn't chosen then, you don't have to be too smart to conclude that he probably won't be now. Why, if he had already had the confidence of the MPs, was he not chosen when the time had just been laid down by law and why have we lost almost a year? So, from the documentation attached over the last year, it is very simple to conclude that SNS MPs will vote for Goran Pekovic and Mr Lazarevic today or tomorrow when voting day is due. If I'm wrong, then the question is why have we stalled the process for a year, with a violation of all possible procedures, and above all, of the dignity of the National Assembly. We are here defenders of the independence of these bodies and the independence of the people who will do the job on behalf of the citizens and in the interest of the citizens do the job. If we allowed everyone to influence the outcome of the vote in the Assembly in such a transparent, obvious and shameful manner, I would say, a way, then it is a very bad message for both the citizens of Serbia and the parliament that should defend all citizens and defend the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. That is why the DS will support the candidate proposed by civil society organisations, one of the two proposed, but because of the abuse in the selection process in front of the association, in front of the AP, I do not know if we are able to support any candidate in a legitimate way. I thank you for now, and I'll leave time for the mandated promoter for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2674	Here you go. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2675	Madam President, a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. I'm not going to ask the Parliament to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can't let anyone call the SNS that she's allegedly responsible for violating the procedure for electing REM members, because that's not true. Also, I cannot allow anyone from any of the parliamentary groups to put on the pillar of SNS shame because they will vote for someone, or because they will not vote for someone. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote the way it thinks best and let each parliamentary group vote the way it thinks it is best, and one who gets most of the votes of the MPs will be elected. But it's inadmissible to muddle an entire parliamentary group and a whole party just because someone at one point doesn't have a majority so he can't push his candidate out, so now I need to vote for him. So that's something that, I think, is not recorded in the National Assembly, that from 11 minutes of debate, five minutes of talking about Alexander Vukic, and the other six minutes are talking about it, and why you SNS won't vote for this, but you'll vote for that. After all, how do you even know who we're going to vote for? So, I'm not asking to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking that the dignity of the National Assembly be protected, because the words used here are that something is shameful, that SNS violates the procedure, that it makes something impossible for someone, which simply is absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2676	Thank you. The truth is, I have applied for the discussion, so I will use my right to respond to some MPs, later on on respecting the procedure since I am also the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information and I stand behind the procedure being respected, as has been respected in the past term, even though the president was a speaker before me. Now, I mean, there's no replica. Insulting the Rules of Procedure, Parliament's dignity threatened by insulting an MP's group and saying... What did you say to Mr. Martinovic, what was the group called? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: That the SNS parliamentary group is responsible for the shameful violation of the procedure... Yes, I believe that we must not attack each other, because the right to vote is solely the right of MPs individually who they want, who they do not want to support. So, it's not a breach of procedure, it's a blow to common sense if you honor someone's vote. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2677	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, regardless of what the ruling regime was in charge of Serbia since the formation of this regulatory body for electronic media, formerly the RRA, the current REM, they have always been instrumentalised in political function and have never done their job, and that is what is the basic problem our MP group Dvori has with the work of this state body. Why only now are new members elected, because simply, it is best to leave those members who have proved to be servants of all regimes. It would be best not to change at all those who have served the previous regime so well, and so serve this regime well. Again, around these new ones that should now be chosen, to see who can exercise greater influence, whether the former, whether the current regime, but in any case not to be independent and professional, but to be instrumentalised in political functions. The Courts are absolutely against this kind of work of this national regulatory body and I will state a few key reasons. The first is their relationship in the election campaigns so far, both 2012 and 2014 and 2016, when this state body lost every sense of existence. Namely, they should provide equal media treatment in the election process for all participants in the elections. They never did it, neither in 2012, nor in 2016. All our applications, all our demands to ensure equal media treatment have been deafened. Their excuse was always completely pointless, that they were just doing an analysis and that after the election, a final analysis of the treatment of all electoral participants on the media would be known. After the elections, this analysis is no longer relevant or relevant, nor can it affect the results of the elections. Therefore, REM former RRA tolerates the unfair treatment of all media participants. Of course, in the last elections, SNS had over 60% of the media presence and all the other participants in the electoral process were 40%. Now, that's not possible, so there's a REM that's going to punish those media broadcasters who don't respect the equality of all election participants in the election process. He never did that to REM, never seriously punished anyone. He never shut anyone out of the broadcast. He has never banned anyone from broadcasting for the simple reason why he treats electoral participants unfairly, and he is obliged to treat them equally. Not to mention how politicians from power directly abuse state functions in the election campaign. You think REM once warned them, that he punished them, that he forbade them. Of course not. So we have a situation where REM is directly placed in office by the executive, and now six months after the election, you still don't have a report from this electronic media regulator on the recent elections. Even after six months, they are unable to report whether or not it was, and we all know that there has been no equal media treatment of all electoral participants. All our applications were simply rejected under this pointless excuse. Not to say that in 2014 in the elections we were expelled from that debate on RTS and that the right to participate only had parliamentary parties. Imagine that nonsense. There are no parliamentary parties when parliament is disbanded. We are all equal electoral participants who hand over tens of thousands of signatures and equally have the right to be treated equally in the media. It's never been respected. Always the parties in power had more than 50% of the media treatment, and everyone else on the spoon. Another problem with this regulatory body is ignoring all the serious initiatives to get in the way of these catastrophic reality programs that promote prostitution, violence, pornography and all the other nonsense in the world. On 29 March 2013, we sought a ban on five reality shows for insulting public morality, scrimmation, promotion of pedophilia, media prostitution, as well as the uglyness of all traditional values in Serbia. It's a whole immoral show called "Great Brother", "Farma", "Publishers", "The Mad House" and "The Moment of Truth". You think the RRA was ever responding. Or when we repeated this request on 16 April 2015 and asked the RRA to punish televisions that play programs such as the reality "The Couples". Of course, even then, this so-called REM didn't react. So they're behind reality shows. They allow them to broadcast, they feed, they promote, they support the broadcast of these most laborable programs in the busiest TV terms. Did someone ever get punished, turned off, banned, or moved the broadcast after midnight or, what we always suggested, extra taxed them for these spines and a ham program, even if we had some use of it, so we could invest that money in funding cultural and educational programs, school programs, sports programs and everything else, which should be a real family program on our media. No, it's about realising shows to be on the busiest times in our media. Why? In order to drive this nation crazy, in order to understand what little we have left of our senses, to draw attention from key national problems, so as not to talk about the government and its impact or ineffectiveness and its results or the absence of results, but to the "Parma", "The Big Brother", "The Moment of Truth" are topics that will be in the daily newspaper, the next day after broadcast in large electronic media. So, is someone systematically feeding reality shows so that they can throw serious issues in this country, or is it someone who might actually tolerate the accumulation of the media monopoly of foreign broadcasters on our market? Did we, as the Montenegrins used to say in the '30s, become a colony of foreign books, today we can say that we become like colonies of foreign media content, that we lose domestic media and become a colony of a corrupt foreign media programme? Here, to inform you, if you are not aware, that from tomorrow from the cable operator SBB, which holds more than 60% of the market in Serbia, our domestic SOS channel, which is the only one in Serbia, is seriously following domestic sport. This, of course, creates a monopoly for foreign sports channels, kills the monitoring of domestic sports and of course REM does not respond, as REM does not react, and that is perhaps the most recent thing I want to say about this state institution, which is that it tolerates the broadcasting of cross-border channels, such as, say, Fox, Animal Planets, Discovery, History or others, which here have their own facilities in Serbia, and here they take domestic ads and charge these ads, and here they broadcast them, but here they don't pay any taxes, because they run as cross-border channels. Can any domestic operator not pay advertising taxes? Of course he can't, he'll be punished. Foreign cross-border channels can not pay taxes in Serbia and violate the Law on Advertising and tolerate REM. So REM doesn't do his job. Here, let me be very specific. Although the Advertising Act has entered into force, it is not respected. Thousands of domestic broadcasters continue to be included daily in programmes re-emissioned in Serbian operators' networks. However, it is time to ask the question – why are channels based in EU and US countries, and re-emissioned in Serbia, not subject to Serbian laws, but subject to, say, Chinese or Russian channels? While domestic broadcasters are squirming from day to day to serve numerous domestic tax obligations, regulations and regulations, for which even the smallest excess gets dragon penalties and broadcasting bans, so far cross-border channels collect extra profits by charging domestic advertising and videos without any tax obligations to the Republic of Serbia, while REM sleeps. Domestic televisions that are important for informing citizens and filling budgets do not have equal conditions for embezzlement, because by breaking this law, cross-border channels are in a dominant monopoly position. So again, the interests of foreigners in Serbia are in the first place. In the October 12th SBB network, as I have already said, there will be barely a few domestic channels left, but there will be no domestic sport, with someone practically achieving a monopoly on our media market. Where is there protection of the interest of the Serbian state to stimulate and develop sports and sports activities and healthy lifestyles, above all in young people? So, the SOS Channel has been campaigning for 20 years against drugs, smoking, for the physical and mental health of the nation. Is that why it's being shut down from the SBB system? Obviously, the presence of conflicts of interest and the existence of unfair competition is if on a network owned by six sports club channels you eliminate direct competitors, such as the Arena or the Sos Channel. Why is REM not fulfilling its legal obligations? Will the other state authorities come forward? Does the government have any roles, Mr. Martinovic, in this or not? Who tolerates this kind of build-up of foreign monopoly in the media sphere that prevails in both written and electronic media and why our domestic media scene simply comes in a different way so that you cannot simply be present on your own media market? So foreign media is doing some kind of colonialization of our media space and the state allows it. So how do we trust any new candidate? Did this new candidate here ever present to us any of his work plans or what he wants to do at all or what new ideas might he offer? Besides, is there any new candidates there, if one candidate was, for example, an example, Ms. Snezana Stojanović Plassic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information at the time of Mladjan Dinkic and the URS MP, member of the Committee on Culture and Program Council of RTS at the time of that government, what is this new candidate and what is it new bringing to REM, or perhaps some high-ranking official of Cankova LSV? Even for one candidate there is even if he is currently a member of the SDS Boris Tadic, which I don't know if it's true, but it would be the turn to confirm. It's about Goran Pekovic. So I don't see why we would at all support the choice of such candidates who are either representatives of the former regime or are close to the current regime or, more likely, work for the bosses of both regimes, for foreigners, because both the former regime and the current regime have always looked at more sides than domestic interests, so the foreigners actually ruled the basic spheres of our society – the economy, the media and other key segments of Serbia's governance. Therefore, REM does not do its job, REM serves the authorities, REM does not protect the interests of all media participants in the election process, REM does not protect family television programs from insinuating reality shows and promoting all the nakaradic, spine, ham and immorality, REM does not tax or punish or do not pursue cross-border channels that abuse its position here and earn income and do not pay taxes to this country. REM loses every sense and every function and every choice of any candidate, if this practice continues, it makes no sense because REM has lost its meaning. We here need to question the business of such a pointless institution that simply does not perform any of its functions. Is it possible that we have elections in Serbia in which the winner in the election, of course, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is not disputed that he won those elections, but did not go to any direct television duel with anyone from the opposition for five years? Guys, is that normal? What's the name of that freedom of the media? What is the name of this democracy in which this great leader and such a powerful statesman and such a great winner in the election must not go out on any direct television duel to any opposition man anywhere? Look, don't defend Alexander Wolfie now, there's no need. He himself said on the show "Cirilica" – I will go out alone against all opposition leaders on the duel. Of course, he broke his pre-election promise again and didn't come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2678	What does REM have to do with this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2679	Thank you for reminding me. REM has to do with what REM's obligation would be, if he were to do his job properly, regulate electoral matter by providing high-quality TV duels to participants in the elections, ensure advertising at no cost, about state spending on national national frequencies, and to encourage that kind of dialogue, controversy, opposition and confrontation between authorities and the opposition, and not practically enables the ruling regime, all of which, now SNS has used 60%, perhaps the DS last time used 70% of media space. So we have everything in REM reports, but when? Six months after the election, when the elections went through, a new government was formed, then some OSCE remembers, then recalls some REM saying that the media elections were irregular, that there was no equal treatment of participants in the elections, and of course the elections in this regard were extremely irregular. So the Serbian Dvori Movement will in any way require the abolition or full renaming of the second function of the so-called state-owned Electronic Media Regulatory Body. They serve the authorities, they serve the interest of foreign capital here, they do not work for our domestic, economic and media interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2680	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular 60-minute break and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Who's been answering since the authorized representatives? Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2682	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow MPs, today we are discussing the election of three members of the Board of Regulators, according to the law, or REM as said in the jargon. Three members due to be replaced by members whose mandate ended on 16 December last year, then on 18 February this and 23 March this year. It means that this organ has been working in incomplete capacity for more than half a year. It's hard to explain why we came to the situation that no members were elected earlier. In front of us today, a proposal that the previous meeting, the previous Committee on Culture and Information, proposed to the National Assembly on 4 February, and we held a meeting a few days later where we should have declared ourselves on this proposal, a proposal for a choice on a proposal from the religious communities and a proposal coming from the Committee of the AP of the Vojvodina Assembly. For some strange reason, the Assembly did not decide at all on a then established proposal for the selection of members proposed by NGOs, aimed at achieving freedom of expression and protection of children. We're only discussing this today. There's been a formal proposal here since the old summons. The Committee, the majority in the Assembly, as we have heard, did not adopt a proposal that was then sent by the committee responsible for the AP Assembly of Vojvodina, and although at the end of March, it highlighted the term of office of the member proposed by the publishing associations, electronic media and journalists' associations, due to the elections, I assume the procedure was launched only at the end of the summer, August of the month and today we are discussing this proposal. The question arises - did this fact that there was no full composition of REM, the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, contribute to the fact that this body has practically not performed its function in this year? In this year, we had a campaign, or parliamentary elections, held on 24 April and the campaign, and given the fact that this Assembly did not adopt a monitoring committee that should control the implementation of the election campaign, REM was again the main body to control and monitor the reporting of electronic media, whose report today has, certainly, the greatest impact on public opinion. If we already can't agree on what our impressions were about how electronic media work at the time, let's use a limited mission to observe the OEPS election, which gave its preliminary report final, somewhere at the end of August of this year. There are several very interesting findings and I, if you haven't read that document I want to share it with you now. So, the OEPS report says that government activities and ruling parties were a dominant topic in reporting on the election campaign as part of an information programme. Analytical and critical reporting on influential television channels with national coverage has been limited, in part, to all present self-censorships, resulting from political influence on the media sector. Due to the lack of a mechanism to closely monitor the work of the media during the election campaign, issues of media bias, examples of dirty campaigns and cases of media freedom violations remain unresolved. Then, in detail, there is the next finding in that report. All private television channels with national coverage "B92", "Hepi", "First" and "Pink" were favored by the government and SNS in the "knowledge" shows that "Pink" which openly promoted the government, while DS depicted it in a negative light. Preferential reporting was even more evident in other programmes that reported events, "B92", "Pink" and "First" dedicated around 90% of reports to government or SNS in programmes outside the regular news, 90%. "The Happy" has devoted 47% of such SNS reporting and more than 38% of SPS. Reporting on these programmes has increased significantly in the last week of the campaign. A positive example is "N1", a private television channel whose programme is shown primarily in major cities that widely and in a very diverse, balanced way reported election participants in their information emissions. The report speaks of REM, says REM was not too involved in media activities during the election campaign, that REM received 22 objections to work during the election campaign, half of which were accepted in the last week of the campaign. He worked hard to resolve some of the objections, and REM’s efforts were generally limited by observing others. As a sign of progress in line with the OEPS recommendations, REM published the minutes from its sessions on its website, as well as some information on the complaints submitted in relation to the election campaign, although it was not always timely and detailed. I was reading these views of the OEPS mission on the state of the media in the campaign for the last parliamentary elections to see what these records on the work of REM look like, at the time of the election campaign, or how, for example, REM referred to the complaints that were filed. Now, you have a number of sessions and it is commendable that these records are available to the public, but then you can see how they decide. So all objections were denied by the REM Council. For one decision, unfortunately I couldn't find a clue. The REM Council held a session on 17 June 2016, so far after the elections ended and finally gathered the courage to decide on a complaint based on a monitoring and analysis report with the programme content by which the television "First" injured Article 5(2). The rules on obligations of media service providers during the pre-election campaign. The position suggests that it is forbidden to broadcast played, documentary, entertainment or other similar software content during the pre-election campaign, in which an official or prominent representative of the applicant of the electoral list or candidate appears. To translate this into a language that we are all going to understand - April 20, it means right before the end of monitoring the electronic media campaigns on television "First" is a broadcast show – Who is Aleksandar Vukic, a documentary show, where whoever was lucky or unfortunate to watch that show could have met about the roots, ancestors and his previous life as Alexander Vukic, then the bearer of a list for parliamentary elections, which is directly contrary to Article 5(2). However, the Council did not find the strength to make a decision. The decision taken on 17 June 2016 is to declare this objection at one of the next sessions. Unfortunately, by searching the records from the next sessions, I was unable to find this decision on the agenda, and I can conclude that the Council should not, he did not want to make a decision on an obvious violation of the rules that exist when pre-election campaigns are being conducted in Serbia. Of course, then what do you expect for selecting new members and can they change anything at all? Looking and preparing for this session, I have found, I must admit, a lot of interesting things on the REM site and they publish every year a document called - a report on the fulfillment of the legal and programming obligations of commercial broadcasters. By reading these reports, you can see that every year the same conclusions are repeated. It is to disregard the obligations provided for by the Law on Electronic Media on Mandatory, Independent Production, on Serbian-language programmes, on the percentage of European so-called. the program. It's repeated year after year. I ask the question - what does the REM Council do if it does not enforce the law and does not use its powers as prescribed by the law? We've heard enough today, we'll probably be here by the end of the debate, we'll be calling on Article 22. Law on electronic media defining the work of regulators. He's pretty wide, that detour, at 23 points, defined what all the Board of Regulators should do, but he obviously doesn't do his job, because the media situation is getting worse every year. So we had one failed attempt at the end of last year to limit the broadcasting reality program. There, the REM Council then made a recommendation that software content, or reality programs, cannot be broadcast sooner than 23 hours, so they can only be broadcast after 23 hours until, I don't know, six-seven in the morning, what practice in some countries in the environment. Since it was a recommendation, not a general binding instruction, it remained a dead letter on paper. And what are the data today? This report itself says that there is an increase in the content and domination of the reality of the programme and that the most extreme example of Happy TV that broadcast in 2015 is 58.42% of reality in total time, 58.42%. This is particularly interesting, because when I asked a parliamentary question at the beginning of this year -- what happened to this announced general binding instruction, the REM Council didn't even answer, the Minister, then, culture and information, if anyone else remembers it, was Mr. Tasovac, and then, in his style, quoted the members of the law and regulations as saying how reality programs can be broadcast with a label that is not suitable for under 16 years after 22 hours, and that for under 18 years before 23 hours ago. When you look at this time percentageally you see that 12, 13 hours a day has been broadcast to a reality program on a national, commercial media and that certainly no minute of this programme has been suitable for under 16 or 18 years and the question is raised in this election – what is the purpose of this regulatory body at all? What I also failed to find, and check on the site, you can't find any reports of broadcaster surveillance during the 2016 election campaign. If anyone remembers and can find it on the site, for the 2014 elections, you had several reports during the campaign, and the final report was adopted and published in June 2014, so two months after the elections were completed. We're half a year after the election, and we don't have that report, and I think you know why we don't. I will remind you of that sentence in the OSCE election control report, which is that 90% of the time on commercial media, the information programme was dedicated to the government or the largest party in Serbia. It's clear that in this case we have a state body that should be independent, who should take care of law enforcement, and he doesn't do his job. The fact that we have candidates today, some have been in the process for almost a year, some have been in the process for several months, we will see that at the end of the assembly this time they will be declared, since in the previous attempt there was not a majority for any proposed candidate, we do not see the purpose of participating in the vote in the election of these candidates and we do not believe that the choice of any of the candidates proposed today will change anything, given that the Council has been working like this for a long time and that the possible choice of some new members can hardly change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2683	Thank you. Milan Lapčević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2684	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the debate on the selection of REM members, an independent regulatory body that should regulate the media scene in Serbia, has been very fruitful today and a lot of arguments have been heard here about how this independent regulatory body works, in fact it is independent only in the name and could be put under quotes. It is hardly independent, because everything heard today, as well as the facts, say it is much more dependent than it is independent and much more works in the interests of ruling parties than it does as an independent institution that needs to regulate media space. As someone said a long time ago that if you want to rule one country then master finance and control the media scene, you control the information, and then you open up space so you can manipulate people and rule as you please. According to the Law on Electronic Media, the work of REM has been regulated and, among other things, REM has a legal obligation to establish closer rules concerning software content and to protect the dignity of persons and other personal rights, the protection of the rights of minors, the prohibition of hate speech and the like. Given that this is an obligation and the legal ingenuity of REM, it would be logical that if software content is prescribed and controlled, then it would be logical that on our TV channels we have much more educational and cultural content to promote, as stated in Article 22, paragraph 19. A law regulating REM's work to encourage the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as well as the culture of the language of national minorities. Instead, we have reality programs that flooded Serbia's media scene. You almost don't have a national frequency media that as its main software content doesn't highlight reality programs. The media scene today is filled with some Athens Ferrari, Maca discretion, Dragons of Ships, etc. There have been more attempts and more interventions from both my parties and other parties and independent intellectuals and organisations, to stop with the realisation of media scenes in Serbia and to stop REM from dealing with its affairs by analysing these software content and starting to use its legal powers, to warn, punish and eventually withdraw work licenses. On these reality programs everything can be seen, except for some normal relationship that propagates the culture of life, family values. There's too much violence, too much banalism, too many explicit scenes, porn, which certainly don't deserve to be included in media content. So that part of the obligations and legal powers he had, REM absolutely did not use or deal with the problem, which led to us having a complete banalisation of media content on almost all channels with national frequency. The second important ingenuity that REM has received was the revision of the 2014 media law set, which is in Articles 45 to 47. Public information law. REM has been given the authority to protect media pluralism, namely to fight monopolies. With this set of media laws, the ruling coalition has prepared to master the entire media space in Serbia, so it is contrary to the government's 2010 media strategy, and the media strategy was done by the Culture and Information Ministry working group based on a media study also carried out by a working group involving European Commission experts. The media strategy predicted that besides one national public service there are regional public services, which directly stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 50, that local self-governments have the right to public information, that is to say to care for public information on their territory, and that according to this, a media strategy is being built where Serbia is expected to have at least six regional public services. Contrary to this media strategy, which is valid and which should be binding on the government, in 2014, a set of media laws was adopted in this parliament that annulled the media strategy, and the provision of the Constitution on freedom of information was repealed, where it was ordered the Ministry to implement violent privatisation of all regional and local media, leaving no possibility for regional public services to exist at all, let alone local ones. So we got the situation that we privatised dozens of media in Serbia, some at banal prices, that through the privatisation of these local and regional media, there was a significant increase, i.e. monopolization in the media sky, so only one person involved in the privatisation, otherwise a natural person, bought as many as eight media outlets, and had never dealt with the media before, nor had anything to do with the media. One of the powers that REM had was to give consent to privatization to certain participants in privatisation, by assessing whether media pluralism is protected and whether anyone can enter the privatisation of a particular medium, not to be a complete monopoliest on the market. In all cases, unfortunately, REM has given this consent to privatising certain media, although in several cases it has proved to be a complete monopoly of the market and, let's say, one and the same man bought both television channels in the area of the Pirot County, which means he 100% monopolised that part of the market, which, of course, is impossible under all possible laws, including in this law that regulates electronic media. To make the disaster even bigger, privatisation has proved to be such that mostly these media have bought people who have never dealt with the media, to put them under control and to put them in the service of ruling parties, and for very poor money. For example, one of the media was bought for 18,600 euros, one television. Immediately, three months after the privatisation of the television, the municipality that owned the television received, no less, 108,000 euros through the project. Whoever bought the TV could have increased their investment six times in just three to six months. It speaks a lot about what the intentions of those who worked to destroy the free media sky in Serbia were. Another important thing about selecting new REM members. So, one of the proposed candidates has been in the REM Council so far, and it is obvious that REM has not done its job, has not dealt with what he was in charge of, has fully monopolised and controlled the media scene of Serbia and, of course, it does not deserve to be supported again, because it will mean that the REM Council will do exactly as it has done so far. This means that it will be in the role of ruling parties, where in the 2016 election campaign, although it is explicitly forbidden that any political entity can be advertised daily for more than 20 minutes, i.e. to have leased terms on any media, took place on a constant month, the last month of the election campaign to transfer the myths of the ruling party from day to day, one and a half hours to two, on all possible regional and local televisions. With his decision or procedure, REM did not react to such a drastic violation of media freedoms and advertising rules, that is, the rules of the political election campaign, but totally disobeyed the opposition's orders that this was forbidden by law, that this could not be done. No single procedure has been initiated against any media. This clearly states that the whole process of media laws since 2014, by changing the set of media laws, had only one goal, which is to put all the media in Serbia under complete control and that there is only one truth. So today you have a direct transmission of all the press conferences from day to day to day by one of the national media you have interviews and daily brainwashing comes to this extent that you simply can't turn on any media without someone coming out of your TV or out of your refrigerator once in a while. This calls all of us and obliges us to fight against this mode of work of REM and not to support the choice of these members, but to completely change the composition of this regulatory body, to give it information and to have people competent and people of integrity who will deal with their work and who will not allow only one truth to rule in Serbia and to literally brainwash citizens every day through the non-control of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2685	Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2686	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who has a journalistic experience for more than 20 years and the experience of the Assembly rapporteur, I note that today we are discussing REM members within a special agenda point. It was more of a case than a rule in the past. That's good. I see this as a seriousness with which this Parliament, this Parliament's assembly, within its control function, would have to join in future, to take care of the application and implementation of the Law on Electronic Media and to take care of the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I will not now talk about the importance of adopting a set of media laws two years ago as a condition for the progress of Eurointegration and society in general. As People's Messengers, we all have a duty to pay attention to their application and implementation. The work of the MP, besides the legislative role, also includes electoral, representative and control functions. When it comes to media, regulatory body, broadcasting, we'd have to look at a wide picture and in light of what we've heard from the previous debaters. The reality is that we are in a decade of wandering and delay in harmonising media laws with European legislation and true public needs in Serbia. I would like to remind you that the reform of the media sphere in Serbia has run slowly since 2000 and with a number of problems that have followed the adoption of laws and their application. Authorities refused to fully give up formal and informal media control mechanisms. To not lie to ourselves, the work was unwilling to bring the media scene into line and do with European standards, and in the interest of the public. Legislative and executive authorities were ineffective. The delay in establishing independent regulatory bodies in the area of broadcasting and telecommunications was, among other things, a reflection of the lack of political will to deal with the area seriously. The broadcasting law was passed in 2002. The law introduced an independent regulatory body in the field of broadcasting. By 2009, the law had been amended four times. The Republican Broadcasting Agency has actually started working only since 2005, following the second amendment of the law. The lack of proper regulation has enabled political and financial abuse of media space, as well as smooth broadcasting of inadequate media content. It was only 2009 that the expert service for analysis and surveillance within the RRA began to work. How late we were in the process of Eurointegration in the field of media, it also says that only in June 2010 was the Law on Electronic Communications adopted, in line with the European Union's 2002 regulation. It was only 2011 that we received a media strategy, which was valid until this year. The work on the new legislation has often been non-transparent and controversial at the very least, as well as the work of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. It was also delayed with the digitisation process, whose execution was delayed for three years, from 2012 to 2015. Not to mention the disgraceful 2009 Information Act, passed on to the extent and will of a minister, for the sake of a reckoning with certain media. Two years ago, in the mandate of the last government, the process of digitisation was completed and media laws were finally brought into line with European Union legislation, including the Law on Electronic Media, which determines closer and more precisely the work of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. These are facts, respected colleagues, unchangeable categories. So we finally fulfilled our obligation. What is even more important than harmonising legislation with European Union standards is our commitment to improving Serbia above all. I'm sure in the future we'll be changing regulations because the world is changing around us, if anything, that at least in terms of technological development and the emergence of new audio-visual services and media. At this point, we are obliged as a state to apply existing laws in the best interests of the public. In this sense, editing the media space in Serbia is important, both for further strengthening pluralism and democracy in Serbia and for the success of the Euro integration itself. The key role in the organisation of the audio-visual sphere in Serbia is certainly the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Today, we have a list of six names, candidates of three authorised promoters, of which we will select three members of the REM Council. They delivered exhaustive biographies and I'm not going to analyze them now. We see that they formally meet the conditions to be elected members of the REM Council. As so far, in the election on who will be elected will be decided by the majority, democratically. But whoever is elected by the National Assembly today as a member of REM needs to know that as of today, the work of both new and old REM members will be followed by the MPs, this Assembly. According to the Law on Electronic Media, REM is behind extremely high authority. The National Assembly, MPs, especially colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Information, whose member I am, we have an obligation to monitor with due attention the work of regulators and law enforcement. We took responsibility for each other's duties. Responsibility is, therefore, important. As Abraham Lincoln said, you cannot escape tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding it today. During the past period, we have witnessed frequent and harsh violations of the law in the work concerning the protection of minors and dignity of a person from inappropriate media content, disregard for the legal provisions on television advertising, or the allowed duration of advertising in one block, violations of the codes of conduct of media service providers. As a National MP and a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I will pay particular attention to monitoring the implementation and compliance of the law and in this respect and the conduct of the Board of Regulators. That's what I expect from all the MPs. Members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulators are independent and independent in their work. REM implements public authorities in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, contributes to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect public interest. In their work REM does not represent the views or interests of the authorities, or organisations that have proposed them, but performs their duties independently, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with law and powers. It is understood that they are allowed to represent particular interests individually. No one has the right, on the other hand, to in any way affect the work of members of the Council, nor are they obliged to respect any instructions relating to their work other than decisions of the competent court. The regulator makes sure that all software content respects the dignity of personality and human rights, and is particularly concerned with not showing humiliating treatment and scenes of violence and torture. These are just some of the powers of the REM Council under the Electronic Media Act. They therefore correspond to the National Assembly for their work, members of REM. So, to all of us. What I want to draw attention to at this time is the need for us, as MPs and the National Assembly, to further analyse and control the work of REM more seriously and more seriously, as we should also do in relation to the work of the executive and all other independent bodies and other bodies that correspond to the National Assembly for our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2687	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a seemingly easy task of supplementing a state body, which pretends to be not a state, but that it is independent and independent. Come on, it's been waiting a long time for that supplement. The body should be the most objective in Serbia, most honestly, the body in which we will all rely and swear maltenes. But when we see who the current members are and we see who the new ones are, then it's a shame for people like this to vote. Some associations, whose goals are to achieve freedom and protect children, you can think of associations. Their goals are to achieve freedom and protection of children, NGOs. The law gave them the right to choose one REM member and instead of one Goran Pekovic, who had stopped his mandate, I never heard of him. Where did he run again? On the next item here, just in front of other associations. Today Milan Antonijević and Snezana Stojanović Plassic are proposed. You don't know who's worse than them. Milan Antonijevic expressed a traitor, he was the director of "Jucoma". Is that at Biljana Kovacevic Wolf? That's where the director was, people. It was celebrated by representing the UN tribunal's stances, the persecution of Serb patriots, was at DS. Did you throw him out, or did he take himself away from you? And an expert at the Ministry of Education, from 2009 to 2010, and in 2015 he was elected a member of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to monitor the implementation of an action plan to fight discrimination. We have a huge amount of data on his extremely anti-Serb performances. Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, was MP G17 plus in two terms. In two terms. It's from Leskovec by the way, I'm surprised Leskovac is nice and the end is famous for honest and working people, where something like that comes from. She also served as State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, at the time of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. From 2013 to 2015, a member of the RTS Programme Council. She's a member of the RTS programming board at a time when RTS was completely kidnapped, any state or social control, not to speak to our troubles with RTS, that we've been there absolutely blocked for years, that we can't appear in any program anywhere. Only if someone comes after us by order. As for those proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information, on the proposal of the Association of Electronic Media Issuers and the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, I do not know how these agreements are reached, but whoever suggested it is better than Gordan Suša, who has been so far. But I'm surprised that Goran Pekovic came up to the door and came back to the window, was in front of the association, whose goals are to achieve freedom and protection of children, and now at the proposal of the Association of Electronic Media Issuers and the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, and next time he can be in front of some religious community. Why not? And, ahead of the competent Committee on Culture and Information of the AP Vojvodina, instead of Goran Karadzic, Sinisa Isakovic, Djordje Lazarevic. This first Sinisa Isakovic in LSV, my hand would dry if I voted for it. Sinisha Isaacov, did you, you know him better, I don't know him, was the assistant secretary for culture and information in the AP. And Djordje Lazarevic was also a member of the RTS Management Board, and behind his candidacy stands himself, Goran Karadzic, who was suspended from office. And this Goran Karadzic is a story to himself. He was, for how many years, Natasha, I was on a business trip so I don't remember exactly, in two terms he was head of this regulatory body. The absolute boss. And there he caught all the strings, learned the trade, and now he's going into crime, into open crime. Here, you prove that crime. The laws adopted in the field of public information over the past years have implemented the principle that the state has no ownership of any media, electronic or news. I think that's wrong, that the state had to maintain full control of state television, state radio and Politika's house. But it's not about that right now, it's about that same Goran Karadzic forming the company MTS Antena TV Doo Belgrade. And how does it form it? On the basis of the contract, two public undertakings investing their money as initial capital. One public company is Telekom Srbija, a company of action, and the other is a show of techniques and connections between Belgrade. I guess this second one was separated from RTS in 2009. Separated from RTS, formed as an independent public enterprise, and now Goran Karadzic as private, there is no indication that a state institution is behind this. Which would cost a state institution if it could bring back RTS to the state by one of the most ordinary changes in the law that the MPs in the SRS would vote for. Well, then, if we had a multi-party board to control it and to publicize all irregularities. Here it pretends that this is under state control, and there are clans that are close to the regime in a certain way that are now taking control of their own hands. What is the purpose of this company MTS antenna TV? They are now trying to reach a new form of monopoly in the field of broadcasting, or television. They want to broadcast 26 channels illegally. In what way? They stopped all the TVs from getting into the so-called. Multiplex. Multiplex means that the earth's channel is digitally broadcast, without Earth's permission, and these Earth's permits are not required. Permissions shall be issued on the basis of a public competition and shall be issued by REM. So far, there's been no competition. Then how can these broadcast 26 channels? These are cable channels that have not been seen wider in the air or so on. Earthy, which comes to the same, but now in Earth's digital service. I hope I'm clear enough, since I had to master this termology myself, getting ready for the show. On the other hand, single owners of local television are tortured and disabled at every turn. There are impeccable obstacles ahead of them. They shall be granted temporary licences for the minimum broadcasting area, etc. These are not the only monopolies on the Serbian scene. Look what that American Admiral David Petreus, former head of the CIA, does. Within his KKN group are SBB, Total TV, Synemania, Grand TV, Sport Club, eight channels, N1, TV Ultra, CAS Media Market Agency, which sells advertising space on cross-border channels, which is prohibited by our laws, and then on its website this CAS media has the following text, the list of our channels, and lists of Grand, Discoveres, TLC, Animal Planet, Sports Club, Synemania, Universal, AHN, TV 1000, Ultra, Mini Ultra, Minimax, ID, History etc. Do you know what this means? That the entire REM so far should be arrested, because this without major corruption couldn't have happened. Everyone who's ever decided how corrupt they were. Now this Goran Karadzic saw Admiral Petreus work, and immediately he flew right here. Why shouldn't he be the same way when it brings real wealth? What's the alternative to this? The alternative to this is a strictly controlled broadcasting scene by the state, so if something goes wrong, we put the government and the competent ministry on the table immediately. This should be within the authority of the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, but we have an incompetent minister of traffic. Change it. It's easier to change a minister than to build a tower this big than the cards that makes us hungry. What was going on here in my absence? This is where the legislative work came to a complete stalemate, closed. Here various independent bodies are formed, and this is not the only one, various agencies, whose task is to break down some of the state's jurisdiction without being formally controlled by the state or anyone else's control. This REM insists that they are an independent and independent body. Yes, the easiest thing to do is to take over state property and say, "This is mine, I am independent and independent." This is a natural resource, frequencies are a natural resource. A profile of the use of natural resources must go to the state budget, not to go to REM, so REM has its own budget from which it pays the salary and makes all other possible expenses, none of us have any idea what. It's all going to them. Well, did Grandma leave them frequencies for inheritance? Who gave it to them? You promised, advances, when you came to power, that you'd make up for all the things that the dosmans have ruined, but it's going the same way. Goran Karadzic was theirs, now he's yours, let's move on. It doesn't matter who it is, like they're being run by ideology. They're only managed by the desire to make money. Instead of having the body of the administrative authority, that the ministry has an inspection from this area and that the inspection controls, something is forming that resembles Mussolini's corporations. One body is formed consisting of representatives of various other bodies. You know, Mussolini, when he got his hands on power, he didn't want any more elections, but he formed a fascist assembly from representatives of various unions, organizations, this, that. That's how they realized they were forming a corporation, and even the church was tasked with religious communities. And the religious communities of one member are sending into this regulatory body, suggesting. How can a law be given to religious communities? The status of religious communities is the status of autonomous legal corporations and they are not directly responsible for constitutional norms, only in the event of a threat to the highest constitutional values, sovereignty, territorial integrity, when they can come under criminal law. If religious communities weren't autonomous corporations, then they should strictly stick to the Constitution and not discriminate against anyone. That means that every pop could do the walking and vice versa, because there's no discrimination by race, by nation, by religion, and by the most recent half-principle, including those who don't know which half, so they're going a little bit over there, a little bit over here. So this was done extremely unprofessionally. This wasn't done by serious lawyers. This is what your lawyers did to you with an average of 6.08, like that lawyer who was elected judge yesterday. No, it can't. These are delicate things. Let's get back into the state hands of RTS, get the policy back, and form multiparty boards. There's a lot of you today, like the dosmania that happened, you're here somewhere. None of them could believe that they would be completely wiped out from the political scene. It's gonna happen to you, too. Maybe we do, too, if we don't learn from your mistakes, and we've learned a lot. To create general legal acts that will be equally valuable to both the government and the opposition, and that in the board of directors of RTS, the Management Board of "Politicals", the Management Board of Radio-Difusion hears the voice and parliamentary groups, that decisions sometimes made by consensus, sometimes by majority of votes, are not important, but that everyone participates, because when everyone participates, everyone can also say, and when they say, they can also criticise can correct what is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2689	Thank you. Any other authorised representatives? The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2690	Thank you, President. Two years ago, the new Electronic Media Act regulated REM's work. It is true that the reality that media laws were delayed until two years ago and there was no political will to resolve this issue and it is true that the work on new media laws was not transparent and that it was contrary to European Commission laws. The Law on Electronic Media, which we passed two years ago, regulates the work of REM. REM as a regulatory body has its independence and independence and all REM members should do their job accordingly. If they have any pressure, they should report to the competent authorities. There have been a lot of complaints that I personally and my colleagues from my parliamentary group that we have received at REM's work in the past few years. The biggest complaints were the inadequate behaviour of REM in the status of cross-border channels that opposed domestic company advertising. I have repeatedly asked questions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this subject and sought REM's reaction. I will also take the opportunity to say today that, within my control role, MPs are asking REM to provide all electronic media with the same and equal conditions, as it is noticeable that hundreds of sports events from various countries, as well as a number of domestic company ads, are being broadcast on a daily basis. I would like to remind you that our laws explicitly prohibit the end of the programme, the subsequent termination of the programme, the introduction of advertising, because these broadcasters are located outside Serbia's legal and tax system, which is indirectly at the expense of Serbia's budget, but also domestic televisions that are in an unequal position, and therefore their position has been questioned. Also, we haven't received a review of the REM Council on election campaigns yet, and we were obliged to win. We also have televisions that abuse speakers in the most harsh way, in a sensational way talk about various topics, especially about preventing domestic violence, and we don't have a REM response here. The question arises – for what? The European Commission has explicitly requested that laws on electronic media and advertising be passed under the law on 10 December 2015. My question, so, to the new REM members and the REM Council at all -- is this job complete? I have information that it is not and I ask that, in accordance with the European Commission's reports, the laws we adopted in parliament are brought under the law. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support the vote by new REM members who meet the formal conditions for the election, but will monitor the work of this independent regulatory body and react to all violations, which we notice, or not the fact that they are not sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2691	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2692	I thank you, presidents and distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as Serbian citizens, have already said that REM, as an independent regulatory body, has extremely high powers. I would like some of these powers now and to read, just so that our citizens and MPs, who are not so familiar with this subject, will get to know each other more closely with their duties, responsibilities and actions. So, the Media Regulatory Authority is an independent, independent and regulatory organisation that performs and implements established policies in the field of providing media services in Serbia. REM also performs public powers to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, and what is particularly important, and what is often forgotten, is that REM contributes to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression. It should also work to protect the public's interest in a way suitable for democratic society. Also, what REM needs to do and often does not do is control and control. REM must take care of the type and quality of the programme, because it is the one that contributes, as I have already pointed out, preserving, protecting and developing freedom of opinion. What REM often didn’t do, and it had to do was monitor the quality of the program. We often had qualitative analyses, but with the very quality of the program, its essence, its content very little REM dealt with, and certainly it had to. REM is responsible for protecting the dignity of a person, protecting minors from inappropriate content, as well as preventing broadcasting programs that encourage discrimination, hatred, even violence. Also, what is important for the functioning of REM is independence in work. Key independence in work is needed, and this should assume how, among other things, the election of new members of this council, i.e. an important regulatory body. In order to ensure REM independence, independence in operation, personal independence is needed. Unless there is a personal independence of members of the REM Council, this also raises a huge question. Also, operational independence is as hard to measure as ever, but it depends to a significant extent on the level of personal and financial independence achieved. REM is a control body, but we're forgetting one important thing. REM doesn't have a statute. REM operates under the statutes of former RRA. REM had to adopt the statute by November 2014. As you can see for yourself, for two years, nearly two years, REM has been functioning without statutes, so we can wonder if this is a situation, whether these are circumstances in which it can legitimately decide. What is essential, one sad essence that we have to mention when we talk about REM is that REM is essentially deprived of independence in decision making and it's turned into a public enterprise, which certainly shouldn't have been, not according to the statute, not according to the Law on Electronic Media. Now let's say a few words about the REM members themselves. REM has been a politically instrumentalised body since the beginning, and REM members are the first echelon responsible for media darkness and abuse of national frequencies. We must also mention that the members of the REM Council are guards of the doors leading to the foundations of the government and that precisely thanks to the REM members and their actions or insubordinations, this authority rests in the place where it really stands today. What's important is that REM members today have dignity, is that they are professional people, behind whom there are significant achievements in the areas they deal with. They must be media professionals, media professionals who are recognized in public and in the circumstances they deal with. They can be teachers, they can be communication engineers, they can be journalists, they can be artists. It must certainly be people who have achieved high achievements in their professions. These must be people of reputation and respect. Of course, they must be recognizable because behind them and their actions are their personalities, their responsibility and their actions, or their iniquities, we will testify because we are the ones who need to control everything REM and their members do. Also, in order for REM to function in a fair, true and fair manner, transparency in the election process is needed. We are about to vote members today, and the procedure that preceded this election itself is transparent, but it is essentially not that good and it is not so effective. As for some arguments that support REM’s failure to do its job well, there are also the number of warnings, the number of warning measures, and the temporary measure of banning content broadcasting. Since its founding, the number of warnings is only 22, the temporary measures for the ban on the programme were only one. As far as the warning measure was concerned, it was only 14. That may not seem much to someone on the side of the REM, it may seem small to someone. The media experts certainly look very small. But what's the problem is, all these warnings, all these penalties, all these warning measures were just about form, and very little about content. REM should be able to control the quality of the program, which is what it has never done before. So one of the recommendations for further functioning of REM is that it has to control the quality of the program, to control the essence. The form certainly matters, but what matters most is the essence that needs to be controlled. Also, REM has been operating on the edge of the censorship for almost a year. To repeat, the number of members of the REM Council is nine. He's been working with only six members since January of the month. According to the Statute and the Law on Electronic Media, REM must make decisions by a two-thirds majority. In this case, all the current members, namely the six, would have to agree with all the decisions that are being discussed in the first place. What can testify that REM is a controlled body and these are facts, is the selection of board members. It's about the RTS Management Boards as well as the RTS Management Boards. We'll illustrate it with one piece of information. 52 members have been registered for the members of the RTS Management Board, 22 have been registered for members of the RTS Management Board. The RTS Management Board has nine members, the Management Board of RTV Six. Interestingly, there were eight members of the REM Council at the time of voting for board members, of those eight six voted almost identically. So let's repeat, what is the chance that out of 52, or 22 names, the same members of the same nine, or six members? I've asked mathematicians, people who do statistics to calculate my percentage, which is the probability. The result I got is amazing, it's a number of 12 digits and more, which I don't even know how to say which one it is. But either way, there's a better chance of winning the lottery, or an asteroid hitting the park across the street, than the same people round the same names. So the probability doesn't exist. It only says that all the REM members who voted received outside tasks. REM is a politically instrumentalized body. It's impossible for everyone to vote the same unless they got a warrant to do so. So, that decision-making chain itself is deeply under political influence. It can't do that, and that decision, it's just one of the decisions that discredits the functioning and operation of REM. It's one of the decisions and way of acting, a way of functioning that shows REM is far from an independent and independent regulatory body. On the contrary, it makes REM dependent and controlled. As I said at first, REM has to control and monitor it, not monitor it and be controlled. We'll repeat the situation when REM didn't react, and he certainly had to. It's about changing editors from tv. So, as we've already said, in the jurisdiction of REM, setting up members of the board of directors of the RTV. REM remained completely silent when editors were replaced, when journalists who had been growing critical journalism were replaced. The Vojvodine Radio Television was the closest thing, it was a public service, but it was the closest thing to an objective public service that nurtured critical journalism. You could hear debates here, very high-quality political shows, very high-quality speeches. Unfortunately, there's no such thing today, we've got one sense, we've got a television that's no longer an example. Many journalists, many editors who were decorated by exceptional professional, journalistic, media quality, were fired or resigned because they could not, did not want to work in a situation where they were controlled. Also, another testimony that says REM is a controlled body, is one situation that we can put into some episodes of the twilight zone or maybe a teleport machine if it was discovered in the meantime, I didn't know. We had a situation that "N1" television was punished during the election campaign. One of the only TVs that was punished was the TV "N1". We had the following case, we had a situation that in the morning program of TV "Pink" was announced a decision to punish TV "N1" from the alleged REM session. You're going to wonder what's going on here? The dispute is that the session was held only four hours later. So, how is it possible that on TV "Pink" in the morning program we have a decision that was made only four hours later? If anyone has an answer, I'd like them to tell me, because I couldn't possibly come to that answer with logical thinking. Also during the election campaign, REM issued a rule on broadcaster behaviour during the campaign. We have not seen the results of that report and the report itself yet, and the election has passed as you all know six months, so we expect REM to report on the abuse of state functions during the campaign. We also expect from them a report on the monitoring of the work of the emitter. We also need to see a report on media content monitoring during the media campaign. That report is still missing. We have some information, inside information that this report exists. Which is why he doesn't show himself to the public, it's the right for all of us to know. Both us who are in the Assembly and citizens and other actors who are interested in this topic. REM had to take care of the equal representation of political candidates during the election campaign, REM did not report back, remained silent. He has remained completely silent on numerous abuses. I will now refer to a report by the Social Research and Democracy Bureau, according to which, during the March 25th-21st election campaign, Aleksandar Vucic, the prime minister of Serbia was on Pink TV for a total of 7627 seconds, e.g. Sasa Radulovic, leader of the group I belong to, only 134. So we got a little more than two minutes, a little more than two minutes versus two hours as far as the prime minister got. I think you can see for yourself how much this is a huge difference and that there has certainly been abuse of political and current state functions, which, according to REM, was illegal and unacceptable. As you assume I'm going to say, REM was and then remained completely silent. Also, in order not to think that I may be thinking too biasedly, we will also mention the OEPS report which confirmed the same thing, which said that during the pre-election campaign there were numerous violations, precisely what I have just mentioned, that they were inconceivably, flagrantly infringing and abuse of state and current political functions during the pre-election campaign. It's allowed, not because it doesn't suit us and because we don't like it, it's simply not in the spirit of democracy, and REM should be managed by democratic principles right now. It is no longer a question of opposition, nor a question of position, it is a question of all of us. If we're going to have quality media, quality media content, these rules have to be respected, whether we like it or not. Otherwise, we're slipping into totalitarianism, we're skating into unanimity. We're slipping into a dictatorship. That's not good. Because without free media, there are no free societies. If it's our choice to live in free societies, we have to respect it. If our choice isn't, then I think, as far as the media and the whole of society are concerned, it's not good at all. Therefore, as far as future REM members are concerned, we do not believe that they can change something significantly for a simple reason. Each of them, being media experts, could be recognized in their environments and professions, each of them could point to some of these irregularities I pointed to. Anyone could point to a breach of the rules, anyone could point to a violation of the law. Anyone could point to unanimity, even insult by some representatives of the authorities who insult their citizens. It was not seen anywhere, and REM had to react to it because it was meant to prevent violence. He was supposed to stop the hate. It's their duty. They control and control, they have to react, and their reactions are missing. Once again REM remained completely silent. We rightly suspect REM has any legality and legitimacy today. We suspect that his members and their candidates for the REM themselves can change something, and they were silent among other things. Regulatory electronic media has been silent and is still silent about the enormous censorship that exists in the media here. You may ask – is there any evidence of censorship? I'm asking you, is there any evidence that censorship is missing? If we look at the Anti-Corruption Council's report, you will see two chapters, significant chapters, major chapters dedicated to censorship and precisely the issues of self-censorship. Maybe you'll say no censorship. But I'd just like to mention some shows that aren't there either. B92 radio. We had "Mental swings", a humorous show, a cheerful character. Also, for two years we haven't had the "Stamp of the Week" on TV B92. The "Sandstone" site was regularly destroyed whenever it published news that did not contribute to the current government. Also, we had a problem again at B92, the national frequency is "24 minutes with Zoran Kesic". It's a satirical show, and as we know about the Law on Electronic Media, satirical emissions are not subject to any criminal prosecution, it's satire, it's humor. This must be done as representatives of the government, representatives of the opposition to suffer, whether we like it or not, whether it hurt us or not, that's a fact. We are the bearers of public functions. Also, mentioning the show again on TV B92, the "Good Country", the agriculture show, one such show was downloaded from the programme after something the authorities did not like was announced on the show. Also on Vojvodina TV, the Radar show, an exceptional show no longer exists. The second RTS programme "View" by Jasmine Milosevic no longer exists. I'm going to take a special look at this show, because despite the professional and scientific public's reactions, it's been removed from the program. This show was the only show of this kind in the region. It was particularly critical, a show that was building dialogue, a show that was building debate, a show that served in the exchange of views, and one such show as "The View" no longer exists. It doesn't matter to anyone, not to you, not to us. The whole society suffers for it. The whole society is damaged because you don't have a debate, you don't have a critical opinion, which brings us back to oneness, and we certainly don't want to, and we can't allow it. What the DJB parliamentary group can demand and what it requires is that the current members of the REM Council resign for moral reasons because of all the arguments that I have made here, because by staying in the Council, being members of the REM Council, give legitimacy to such insubordinations. So it would be extremely useful for them, as well as for the media, and for society as a whole, for them to resign or to publicly step forward and tell about everything that's going on in the REM Council. As I have already pointed out, the issue of freedom of the media is the question of freedom of society, because if one body allows it to be supervised, controlled, and the law and the statute states that it must be supervised, that it is in control, then the big question of what kind of society we live in and what kind of society we really seek. I would add perhaps in the end – is the country of totalitarianism, dictatorship, censorship and self-censorship really the one Serbia we believe in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2693	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2694	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group will take part in the vote and will vote for the election of new members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. This issue is certainly significant to fill REM as regulatory authority as soon as possible, because the fact that there were certain shortcomings in the work of this regulatory body and of course that, at any time in the future, this regulatory body must justify the epithet of independence and independence in relation to other entities, and especially to the authorities. Otherwise, the REM Council has nine members who elect the National Assembly from the ranks of prominent experts, out of the work of the relevant REM, and these are media experts, lawyers, economists, telecommunications engineers. There are eight mandated promoters under the law, and among them are associations of electronic media publishers and journalists' associations and the committee responsible for the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as well as associations whose aims are to achieve freedom and express and protect children and whose proposals we are discussing today, which we will certainly vote on in the day of voting and carry out the selection of proposed candidates. The completeness of the seats in the regulatory body is important because it will allow REM to be in the future at full capacity, which for a time was not and has contributed to certain shortcomings that we have heard about here. To remind us, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, short-term REM, as an independent independent regulatory organisation, was established under the Law on Electronic Media adopted in the National Assembly in 2014. This law entrusted REM with the exercise of public authority in the field of electronic media, which would best conduct public policy in the field of providing media services in Serbia. First of all, REM has the task of contributing to the improvement of the quality and diversity of electronic media services, then contributing to the preservation and protection of the development of freedom, opinion and expression, all in order to protect the interests of the public and broadcasters on the one hand and to the protection of users of services, which are citizens. Due to all this REM is certainly largely in the public interest. Today, we are very often exposed to inappropriate content in electronic media in the programming schemes of some electronic media. So on some media we see in the middle of the day very inappropriate content of which, I can say, is a disgrace especially in the society of younger generations in a house in a family circle and the question is who can regulate and prevent and certainly REM has a significant role to play. The question is just what legal instruments for implementing the public authority of REM can, as a regulator, affect the quality of media content? The control of media content broadcasters refers primarily to the fulfilment of technical conditions, but also to the control of the content that should be in line with what is the permit issued to them for their work. Therefore, REM has legal opportunities to impose measures on irresponsible broadcasters, which are a reminder, a warning, a temporary ban on broadcasting, etc. So, are the measures envisaged by the law sufficient to form the suitable content that we have ahead of us, and therefore the system of values that our society should strive to, and certainly, when we ask one question like this, we come to the conclusion that there is much to be done on this plan and much to be done, and that REM itself should be likened to its task to a greater extent than it has done so far. The broadcasters are most often willing to pay big fines and continue to broadcast inappropriate programs that bring them great profits. First of all, I mean those programs that are broadcast in daily and evening prime terms and I mean the rilaying programs, which broadcast primarily inappropriate behaviors of individuals and participants in these programs. There are often compromised personalities offered to our viewers, especially young generations, as positive examples. It is a great shame that there are not many other content in our programming schemes and content that serve as an example and that would promote the real values that a society needs to pursue. I today, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, want to support REM in an effort to ensure that all available capacities are better controlled by the quality of media content and I hope that this will continue to work in this direction. However, I think that more quality and appropriate media content requires more serious social support and action, some kind of organised campaign, so to speak, of all the subjects in society, which we will fight for content suitable for our children, where we need positive, not negative examples, where work is promoted as a value, then learning, effort, commitment to certain values, not crime, nelado and culture. For such a situation, we are all somehow responsible, and so are many institutions of the system, and we must acknowledge that. So, what the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media does not execute in its full authority and scope and perhaps insufficiently, and many others are guilty of it. So we all have to go the other way, through other thinking and by other actions, in order to achieve a higher goal, or greater reach in regulating this sphere. Of course, the Regulatory Body of Electronic Media as a regulator needs and needs to get even more precise legal powers. So what is being respected and said in the sense that there are certain abuses, perhaps there are and certainly no one today can claim that we have achieved today in our society and in our country a high range of functioning of many entities and actors in social, political and economic life, as well as in what is the work of independent bodies. We need to set high goals in that direction in order to make it work better in the future. So I believe and want to point out hope on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that this is the first step in making this the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media in the future work in full capacity, and then that we as the National Assembly, I hope, soon, if needs arise, and it seems to be necessary, to improve the legal regulation of this body's work. In any case, it is important that after this debate we select new REM members and give full support to this independent regulatory body for the exercise of our public powers. The Socialist Party of Serbia, in fact a parliamentary group, its MPs, will vote to elect new REM members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2695	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2696	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I've heard a lot of things here today, and it's come to me that I really felt like smiling when people tell you about censorship and dictatorships that are the worst possible fear in the media. The media depended directly on calls from the President of the Republic's cabinet at the time, and so it was ordered. I'll tell you, at the time of their government, the SNS was in the period from 2010 to 2011, for example. The city television "Studio B" had zero guests, and on RTS there were two, which is indeed, you will agree, probably a magnificent success in freedom and democracy, and especially in the ability of freedom of expression. All these people who own the media today, these central ones, are mostly their investors. They showed us this owner "B92" and this "First Television" that it is the best possible investor to come and invest in the development of the media. Now there's a call today for the man who took off some show. Well, I'm sorry, what do you expect from us? Should we call the owner of the television and tell him - leave that show? By yesterday, we were told that the market principle is the best thing in the world. I apologize, man owns television, he can do whatever he wants with his TV and play whatever he wants. So, what are we talking about here? If we're talking about REM, the same principle of how REM works is they introduced. They chose that REM. By the way, personally, I have to agree here with a fellow MP, I'm a major opponent of these independent bodies. It's just a stupid thing for me, and it's completely pointless for me, to get out of the ministries, and jurisdiction is given to these independent bodies. As I am the opponent of this Anti-Corruption Agency and these various other agencies, but it is now unfortunately formed as it is. In my party, I have a big problem, and I often mix up with people who are still up for it, but honestly, I'm a big opponent of it, because I think these people are working inappropriately there. If we're talking about RRA back then, that's all, except independent. It was a classic party institution, where they exclusively placed their similar journalists to be the controllers of what they were doing in the media by some gentlemen, who were even presidents of the party. Now, what's going on here? Now I see a cry on reality programs. People, in your time, reality programs have been created. One of your party presidents owned the company that took the biggest share of the commercials precisely because of these reality programs. Or are you going to make us forget it now? As far as I'm concerned, I'd personally shut down all those reality programs, but I don't have the right to interfere in the work of a private television that's commercial, she makes a living on it. I'd ask them if they were the owners of television to behave, do commercially on the market principle to make money, or would they be so human, so I don't know what they're serving and they're losing? I'm not sure they'd behave like that. Speaking of allegedly independent newspapers, or public services where they were essentially managed, say the Vojvodina Radio Television, so that was pure party television. It wasn't in the Union of Communists like that. So, my people, we had an unmistakable owner, that's what the president of the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina, the Gruhonjic, who trained his staff at his private school of journalism, and then took them from there and put them on TV to be journalists. Then he gets paid, and that's where they pay him. He even founded his own department, even though I don't know what he ended up in life, but he founded a department at the University of Novi Sad, whether philosophical or where, as a journalism department, whatever. That's where he recruits the staff and puts them on TV. They don't complain about the freedom of TV, they complain that they can't afford to draw more money. It was pure corruption. They say they're complaining about a show that was taken off that TV, and now I'm going to tell you how it worked. This reporter who's had that show, it's about an hour in the week, she's started her own private company that does public procurement, that is, tv does public procurement, and, look, only her company can fill that public procurement, and then she's got some production, because she's the only employee, they give her 120,000 dinars a month, on an annual level, that's a million and 440 thousand, and she's got a nice life. That's how it worked with them. And then they talk, please, about how someone controls the media. So look what they did. Well, that's how the people of Vojvodina stole money. It was a public service, the party television of the then Pajtic nomenclature that was in Vojvodina. We would never have thought of such a thing. They're talking about censorship. So I apologize, if censorship is that you can say that the President of the Government's brother, as some media wrote, quote -- the biggest drug dealer, smuggler, not smuggler, but printed passports for Al-Qaeda, translated a tanker from Colombia to Europe, I don't know how many tons of cocaine. It's all written so you get their free media. Then when you expose them, you make an exhibition about their pigs, and then they get angry, they say - it's a blow to journalism. It's not. It's their picture and opportunity. They object because someone has shown them what they are or I don't know if they might be ashamed of what they wrote right now. That's why they're complaining, and that's why they're making this mess. The media in Serbia were controlled in their time, so something similar to Pinochet's dictatorship was approximately. That's where it was. And don't let them talk about anything today. So all the time, they told us how best it was for all the media to privatize, remember, when they were government. They kept telling us that privatization was the best thing in the world. Now that the state is completely out of the media, it's no good now. Now they'd suddenly be coming back. So you want to pay out of that media pocket? Do you think that's sustainable? So get out of your pocket and pay the media. This is where the state did something, I have to admit, I agree with even one MP here who said that, let's say, some media should remain state-owned, like RTS, Tanjuga, I'm definitely in favor of them being state-owned, "political" even, but we can talk about it. I'm sorry, if you think the state should spend out of its budget on various local televisions, and that's just a waste, so no one does it normally. After all, from the EU we keep coming up with recommendations that the state should come out of the media. Now we've done it. They didn't do it. Why? Because that's how they controlled the media. And it never occurred to them to meet what the EU is looking for. So it's scandalous that they're talking about something. When we talk about these professional associations, I have to admit, I've never seen these people who are candidates here before in my life. I have no idea who they are, except those two I've known their work from before, this colleague from the Faculty of Law, Mr Antonijevic or Antonic. I know him because I saw him when we passed our exams. But given their action, and since you're telling us that they're terribly independent, I'm curious how that MP who was here in two terms can be just as independent as that body, but those two, I wouldn't vote for them in my life. Because of their former past, I don't think I'd ever press this key in my life to say yes. Because they're not independent. Can't someone who's in "Jucom" be independent or if he's in G17 to be independent. There's no chance of any. Well, as far as that goes, at least for the two of them, I know I'm sure as hell not gonna vote, for this four I'll see, I'll think about it. We're talking about monopolies here. We have really one cable distributor here who in a very scandalous way, I have to admit, comes to the market, buys all these little distributors, chokes them, etc. And people have almost 60-70% of the market. I'm afraid the state can't react against it. You don't have a mechanism, you don't know what to do, and I'd like the mechanism to be found because it's impossible. Then they're blackmailing other distributors that they have to release their channels, plus they're paying them money because they're playing their channels. That's how they behave because they have that kind of monopoly. I'd ask the state to really reconsider that and to react there. No one can be stronger than the state Telecom. There is no possibility of being stronger than the state Telecom. And unfortunately, it's today's case here. Now, you see, since we're talking about censorship, dictatorship, I don't know what, well, you see that cable distributor owns the N1 here, televisions where exactly gentlemen are like Spanish series. What are they talking about, what dictatorship and censorship? They keep 60% of the market and more. Well, I wish in their day there was such censorship and dictatorship. Only it was real at the time, and this is today imposed and invented, in order to, of course, ugly the state. When we talk about these associations, you know, here it looks like the Holy Scriptures, whatever NUNS publishes, that's how it has to be. Only the NUNS journalists are the best journalists, only when someone looks at them a little bit, or if they cough at them, then there's a campaign going on against journalists that I don't know what, and no one's talking about that there are other news associations here, that there are some other journalists who have also experienced unpleasantness, even in their time, but these journalists don't matter. You know why? Because here society is divided into ours and theirs. I'll give you an example. My colleague, who I don't agree with much, but he's had a terrible job attack, I'm talking about a colleague named Dean Andjus. They said something about him once, never mentioned him again. You know why? It's not theirs. If it were theirs, they'd be campaigning for months. Now, that's what's terrible. That's what's terrible and what's really impossible to endure anymore. Not a NUNS reporter is someone who's really just because he's a member of that association that's the best journalist and doesn't always have to be elected. After all, if we're talking about censorship and dictatorship, it's you from NUNS and all their projects that got more money than any public firm in the state in pointless competitions that, unfortunately, the state here has published. Because they had their people on commissions. Well, God forbid it was such a dictatorship back then so that someone else could get the money, not just NUNS or NNV, or the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina. It's a terrible hypocrisy. Of course, as far as REM is concerned, I have to admit, personally I'm not satisfied, here, right around the cross-border channels, I have to be honest with you. So I, among other things, am on one television that is television in this country, paying taxes to this country, for every commercial you have to pay taxes, and you here have really some TV that has masters of their own or already where abroad, playing our commercials and not paying the dinar to the state. Well, that's not normal. The right to tell you, I don't like the fact that the SOS channel might be shut down, or one cable distributor holding 60% of the market is going to throw it out. It's a scandal. It's really a scandal. That SOS channel, I'm sorry, maybe it's me, I love sports, I grew up next to that channel, and now someone's throwing it out just because it's not theirs and because it makes them competitive. Now I should call the SBB and say – shame on you, what are you doing? Then someone would jump and say, "Look, the government is putting pressure on an independent distributor." And that's what they do all the time. They're ordering television that the show has to play and say it has to be so, it's a big dictatorship if the TV owner decided to put away some kind of show. Well, that really doesn't make sense. Well, that really doesn't make sense. Let's tell you what this is all about. Most of the cry of the gentleman in question especially those professional associations that are more their party stations is precisely because they can no longer draw money from the state and that's the only reason they're doing this. I wouldn't be too long. I think it was enough. I'll certainly keep for some next time as this happens to discuss this, but in agreement, of course, and with my fellow MPs, I'll give a good thought to who I give and show confidence. I hope, of course, for the better work of REM. I think it's been pretty bad so far, and that can be fixed and that certainly our televisions are far, far better working and working better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2697	Thank you. The People's MP Balsa Bozovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2698	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard here from a previous speaker down the charges, as if he's in power today, not the SNS. I think it's more than degutant that about media darkness for four years, after the total darkness in the media in Serbia, someone has accused DS of the state of the media, four years since one party has been in power. It has never happened in Serbia that the owner of a television set shut down a show. That didn't happen. It happened that the owner could get or won't get the national frequency if he has or doesn't have some show. For this reason, we were dealing with the issue today, on what criteria do we choose members of the RRA at one time, today REM, which allows media owners in Serbia to do so. So, as far as I've had the chance to read, they can also warn and punish, they can take someone's rights away, but that hasn't happened in four years. We have written objections, we have written complaints, we have never received a response to the situation in the media today in Serbia, not only when it comes to the political party I represent, but when it comes to the level of culture that some media or non-culture promote daily in Serbia. Now, that's a public interest that you're absolutely not interested in. You just want to deal with those who have been in power for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2699	Time, Mr. Bozovic. Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2700	This public interest, you should have taken care of it when you made the rules about how REM, or RRA, works. You just did something that's scandalous. You're putting pressure on an independent body so it has to do what you want. Well, it's a scandal. It's a scandal. If we had said that and said that – RRA must now call some TV and say – return that show, you would say that we are pressuring the media. Well, you just did it. Tell me, in your time, when did the RRA give someone a warning? Who did she warn? Has she ever responded to such a scandalous campaign that you led for the presidential election in 2012? It's the worst thing in the history of the campaign that's been led here, the darkest, the worst, really. So I didn't hear the RRA ever react. But the rules on RRA's work have been passed by the same criteria working today and even the same members have been detained, no one has even changed until they've been given a mandate. What are you talking about? You would revolutionically change everything, just like after October 5th, you beat the director of television and you would massively throw people off the television. Today, when someone else comes to TV, you say, "Well, it's a dictatorship now." You've revolutionized all people. What are you talking about? I'd really ask you to keep an eye out for independent bodies. I'm personally their great opponent like this, but I respect that, that's the law that you've just passed. I don't like him, but I have to respect him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2701	Replica, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2702	It can't be a problem when anyone asks where someone graduated. If someone in the 2012 campaign asked – tell us the addresses, where did Serbia's candidate graduate? What do you mean, he's being warned by the RRA in that case? Everyone has a right to know. Today, you have led RRA, or REM, to allow two or three days of Kosovo's decision to take over Trepca. No media should ask the Prime Minister if it is in accordance with the Brussels Agreement, whether there are red lines, whether we give up the Brussels Agreement or not, whether it was negotiated in 2013 and signed that Trepca belonged to the so-called "Trepca". the Republic of Kosovo or not. I just want to explain this thing, that media freedoms don't exist today, and that you're back in time from ten years ago just because today you have no argument for the state of the media, not only when it comes to politics. I appreciate you personally, not so much your press call. How many times has it been that you, on your own show, invited, for example, representatives of the opposition, and you are constantly talking about some media freedoms? Not once. No one from the DS has ever been invited, and you've found yourself talking about how RRA, or REM should look. I don't think that's right, and I think you yourself know how big a problem it is that you brought Serbia into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2703	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2704	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, here we are looking into each other's eyes and now tell me if I'm not telling the truth. I invited you, but you said - I can't come without being declared Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2705	Mr. Djukanovic, please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2706	So don't make it up. You have an open call like this, I'm calling you now. If you want, you can come whenever you want and everyone from your party. As far as this is concerned, you are now dear viewers and everyone here, a complete auditorium, you've heard that someone has absolutely no argument to what I've told him. He continued with a political story, now he remembered both Kosovo and Metohija, all at all, he just didn't remember the topic, which is RRA, and especially work in their time, but it's good to remember the campaign. Yeah, that's a legitimate question, but it's not legitimate for the RRA to take down our video, and you have such creepy spots about Serbia's alleged hole in Europe. Now, that's the problem. There was an RRA on top of us, because it was your party outpost, and he was very kind to you. Now, that's the difference, that's not happening today, of course. What's the difference between you and us, when you came to power, you revolutionically cleaned everyone up. We left no one behind, and we'll never do anything like you, because I respect continuity, of course, what's left in the country, doesn't start history from us, you've been acting completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2707	Since no more of the authorised representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, appear, we continue to work in order of the MPs. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2708	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, we've been listening to each other all day and we're talking about a very important space, a space of media freedom. It is my impression that today we are not discussing the election, the candidates for REM members, rather than us, from the speech of various MPs and MPs, as if we were choosing large censors and large inquisitors. The current assembly composition will remember the situation prior to the adoption of a set of media laws in 2014 when the secretary of state of the ministry responsible for a set of media laws himself publicly said that he appears to have a media jungle in Serbia. The term referred to more than 1440 registered public texts. Now we've divided these texts into electronic and printed media. I remember, for example, in May 2015 there were about 110 registered television stations, there were about 325 radio stations. So we now have one space, freedom and opinions, expressions guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 46, which is guaranteed by Article 51 of the right to notification. Now we have to ask one key question here, what is freedom, what is freedom of opinion and expression in order to allow space for action, not only REM, not just REM members, but also media, electronic or written, but today we are talking about electronic media. I think most of you will agree that freedom of action is an individual or an organization that does not endanger other people's freedom. There have been discussions here not only about public biographies but also about secrets, not about secrets, but simply about the amount of information we don't have in these written biographies. I'd like to say that we still have to take a form of political culture from which we all encourage. Here, Mr. Seselj will probably remember, and Professor Micunovic would remember if he were here, notorious member 133. SFRJ's criminal code when he was so-called. a verbal delinquent where people are arrested for public opinion or written opinion. So, we still have this reflex and censorship and self-censorship, but with a set of media laws, which we adopted in 2014, we said that the state, that politics is withdrawn from the media and that they simply need to strengthen these independent regulatory bodies. We're not just MPs and politicians here, we're viewers at the same time. So I urge that we do not ask REM members for what we do as citizens, as viewers or listeners. Just like the great power of the image, it's the great power of the microphone, and it's also the great power of the remote control when we as citizens can change a program that we don't like. So we here need to discuss the biographies of candidates who nominated three rounds of proposing, so to speak, civil society, a society that deals with freedom of expression and protection of children, also, professional associations, associations of electronic media publishers and journalists associations and also competent bodies, in this case, the Vojvodina Assembly. So these are three powerful circles of proposings and I think we should give credit to people who have had enough courage and professional and personal integrity to enter this competition process. As rapporteur of the Serbian Parliament's competent committee, counterpart Paunovic explained the detailed procedure. The procedure was public and transparent and therefore I would appeal to my colleagues to talk a little more about candidates, just as there is a presummation of innocence in the Criminal Code or law, we now do not know whether these people will really respect Article 13. The e-media law, which says candidates, or members of the REM Council, should be independent and act on their own knowledge and conscience. I think some of them are actually gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2709	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2710	Thank you. The law was passed in 2002 or 2003, and it's about the RRA or the Broadcasting Act, which predicted those regulatory bodies, and I have to tell you that it was a mistake. Of course, it is in the spirit of good rules and customs in the EU, but Serbia is not then, and it is certainly not mature today for one such body, i.e. it is always a dilemma whether we are matured for independent independent bodies or not. Experience tells us that it depends on the people who lead them. We have good examples – Manchester, Protector of information of public interest, Protector of equality. These are good examples, and there it turns out that independent regulation and control bodies can be good. So, RRA or what's now called REM is no good and never good. To be clear, there's never been any independence, no independence, and there's no independence today. That's why I won't vote for any candidate who's on the list, although there are a few good ones, and I recommend they withdraw their candidacys, because in that organization there is no place for good people, for people who have character, who are professional and who have honor. The media harangus against political opponents, censorship, primitiveism in electronic media, is a daily phenomenon. Did any form of RRA or REM take any steps towards that? Absolutely not, not five years ago, not today. We have a special situation to have a representative, some evil languages tell the mascot of a party that has its own TV show on TV. Well, it's directly against media independence and anything that has to do with it. Can we translate to a Serbian reality show? Let's just say it means a reality play or a real show. What we're looking at and what started with previous power, thank God not for the time that I've had some responsibility in this country, is not something that can't be reality, but can't be artistic, or quasi artistic, or any vision of any reality. It's true that we can remote control that off, but that's where some of our money is spent, and that's the point. It should be prohibited immediately in order, no matter what television is broadcast on. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a crime lobby or I'm a crime, prostitution, primitiveism, choose whatever negative words you want for it. We also have televisions that boast of it, pink, colorful, with four letters, with five letters, which every day poison this people, every day, about the cost of Serbian citizens. We have a television that's got some major loans, which is more tax-debted than some bank, or I don't know what kind of failed companies, where some say they're writing in the papers, I'm reading, covering up murder in traffic, in Hayat, because that TV is loyal to the regime. It has to be interrupted. Little Radojica from Kruševec, who bought seven, eight televisions before he could hardly know how to hold a remote, it's something that is tolerated, it's something that RRA is silent or someone before that and says – it's all right, and it shuts down those TVs that were once on honour and cheek in those cities. It's a disaster. That can't happen. These independent bodies in the area we are now talking about, the electronic media, will be independent when they ban some shows permanently, I said that when they take away permanent or temporary permits to broadcast some televisions and that they have a foothold in the law, not in which shirt the parties are currently wearing. It's a free country. It's a country where people live normally. It is a country where the president of a party can be the director of television, but that the television continues to be independent and to be guided by professionalism, objectivity and honor. It's something to do. This, this has nothing to do with anything and it shouldn't exist, and as it already exists, at least I won't give him any legality or anything and I won't vote for the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2711	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2712	This is really fantastic. It's just amazing that someone who could have raised himself to have an action called "Sabbe" in which he shut down 11 media, he's talking about freedom, the one who ordered the dead cold -- turn off this TV or shut down this newspaper. That's really outrageous. No, I'll take that, maybe I'll be a mascot or whatever. At least I talk to the citizens, and I talk to them on TV, and I don't take vineyard subsidies, and I don't even think of stealing people like that. That's the difference between me and him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2713	The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2714	Thank you. I don't know where my colleague recognized himself. I may have thought of him, too, but I didn't explicitly say that, so I consider this recognition as a confession. Proud of the "Sabbe" action, always, proud of the "Sabbe" action. Then no television is closed, as I recall. Vujic Valjevo is certainly not closed. That Mrs. Vujic and I are friends, so it certainly wouldn't be closed, even through a relationship without me telling you like this. But it is a forbidden record of the Zemun clan, and I understand sorry for that, and a lot of other voices that have been read by criminals. That's right, and I'm proud of it. God will give justice after “Sablje” completed its work in a valid way, there would be little room for what is happening again today. Today, we have on the front page of some newspapers a commercial for a new head of the Zemun or some other clan. It's become a prestigious place. Except the president hasn't given him the medal yet, and that's the question of when it's gonna happen. It's a disaster. So, being recognized by you, that's your problem. I think Serbia is sick of this primitive, these coffee tables that are allegedly run by politics. As far as the vineyards are concerned, I recommend you take the bait, that would be a lot better for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2715	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2716	It's a shame that sclerosis catches you, so simple memory goes to you who knows where, but you know the owner of that TV in Valjevo, I don't know what you mentioned the first one, but however, the owner of "March" you arrested at that time, without talking about a fellow journalist from Kragujevac, who had been in custody for 25 days, never got a solution that he was in custody. You arrested people for not having the right to an attorney and you're proud of it. Our people say, "What is the wise thing to be ashamed of?" I would not speak of it any further. You should be ashamed of yourself. If I recognized myself in that mascot, so I'm glad you recognized yourself and that you finally might see how much you stole the people just by getting free subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2717	The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2718	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my favorite member, Article 106(1). Please, we had this last week, here we have this again. We keep turning left of Albuquerque. From what I understand, by following the dynamics last week, the problem lies in replicas. So the replica, I understand, responds to the attack and it's all okay until the moment the counter attack starts. That's where he turns left from Albuquerque and then we hear about the starlets, about the beer, about "Sabreya," I don't know what. I pray and appeal, first of all, to fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and then to the chairman, to sort of concentrate and stick to the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2719	That would be just fantastic. I don't know where Albuquerque is. I don't know how to regulate that traffic. I don't know what the word "okay" means. I don't know what that means in the speech of an MP in parliament, but let me tell you, welcome to our world. Replications are allowed. You'll make it all right. Yes, except for the opposition, as far as I know, Zoran Zivkovic is in opposition. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You didn't even ask. You want a replica? I'll give you a replica right away, no problem at all, but you didn't mention it. So replicas and exist to come out of the topic and MPs correspond to each other when they or their political option are mentioned in some negative sense, or in terms of an absolute misunderstanding of what they have presented in their discussion. I can be a censor in replicas, but sometimes it's desirable to provide a little dialogue and encourage, and I'm going to do it right now. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2720	Thank you very much. It's true that the replicas aren't pleasant. It is true that some more difficult words are used there, but this is unfortunately the necessary thing to potentiate what is not being said in the speech itself for various reasons. It's certain that I'm not happy about the fact that I have to replicate it, but when they're telling the truth, or what someone would say, lies, then you have to answer that and answer that. With respect, I don't know if he's a lawyer or if he's going to be a lawyer, a colleague who spoke before me, tell him that subsidies are irrevocable and that they're given by law and that it's not a problem that they're given, but it's a question of whether they're used properly. It happened seven, eight years ago, all inspections possible, except archaeologists, haven't questioned my business from 1986 to today, not one Falinka, nothing that would be contrary to the law, and especially what you're talking about. The man was arrested, he was in custody for 20 days, there was New Year's Eve in those 20 days, he was released from custody and the prosecution dropped out, and he was only in custody because of me, because of my subsidy, but it's not a topic. The theme is that you have not denied anything or tried to deny my assessment of the situation in the media and the incompetence of this REM, before the RRA, in any government, I repeat, since 2004, when it started working on such a body, to introduce order into an area that is very important, not just for fun, but for enlightenment, for educating people who are supposed to lead this country tomorrow. It's a mess, and it has to change along with censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2721	Thanks, time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2722	Maybe you can be so malignant. There, I graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. I wasn't much of a student, but I'm done, and you're the evening school in Bitola, and that's the difference between you and me. You know, I encourage you to answer as many times as possible, because now you've shown how immoral you are. So, right now, you've shown by your speech how immoral you are, so maybe you've covered it all with papers, and you'd never get... Let's see if an ordinary citizen can get that kind of subsidy, a non-refundable one? No one could ever, and you won because you traded with your political influence. You should be ashamed of yourself, and you should be ashamed of yourself, not stand up and defend it. That's the difference, sir, between all of us here and you. Fortunately, you'll never run the country again. It's the luckiest thing for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2724	Once again, the subsidy means that something is irreversible. Every agricultural activity, serious, which has been done in Serbia since 2002, and here, has been covered, or financed by subsidies. Every vineyard, orchard, so far hops, subsidies per hectare, basic herd, heavy cattle, it was all subsidized. And today, only someone has to realize that they're missing trying to be some kind of lawyer, some kind of journalist, but they're doing what they know they're doing, and that's to grab their hook. I'm proud of all the people who did it and, unfortunately, my situation with it isn't so great. I hardly had a political impact on anything in 2007. On the contrary, if that's the subject, finally, I'll never talk about it again, from the so-called. My parents destroyed the job, and this vineyard is, thank God, alive and healthy and one of the top 10 in Serbia, and according to the assessment of colleagues in the business. That's not the point. I agree with my colleague that this is not a topic. The theme is that in this country, the media was only as free as some brave journalists and some few brave editors had the same courage to resist political pressures, and that was five years ago, 10 years ago, and five months ago, and today. The only period of freedom of the media in Serbia was from October 5th to the end of 2003, when it was perfectly normal for journalists to spit on you, because it was their release from what they suffered in the '90s and probably their assumption of what they would suffer in the two-thousands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2725	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2726	I'm glad you guys got your hooks, so you bought an apartment on Vracar. It's very nice, and there's agriculture and how it's developed, so it's a great honor for you. Usually farmers invest, as far as I'm concerned, in the machinery, and you've invested in the old timer, in the shark. Therefore, you should really be ashamed of yourself for trying to defend yourself. What you've been doing is immoral and blushing on your own, but here you are trying as hard to get away with it. I agree that's not a topic. The theme is, of course, because none of the journalists have been allowed to write about that thief of yours for many years. That's problematic, because absolutely, not just you, but your party comrades, you censored every thieving thing you've ever done, and it couldn't possibly have gotten to the media. The first time it was written about it, you ripped up that newspaper right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2727	The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2728	I guess the Rules of Procedure go before the replica. Thank you, my second favorite member of Article 107(2), in this case, is not allowed to present facts and evaluations concerning the private life of other persons. Please, I don't care where my colleague Zivkovic lives, where he bought the apartment, how much he paid for it, and the rest. So, even inside the replica, this shouldn't be allowed to be the chairman. Here, I've managed to breach the Rules of Procedure without mentioning anything related to the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2729	What did you say about the U.S.? That's the only thing I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2730	Whoever heard it heard it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2731	What does "okay" have to do with the U.S.? Yeah, that's American English. Okay. It's time to smile, we won't discuss the apartment anymore, or Zoran Zivkovic, or anyone else. We're going back to work. Serbia's Filipovic, and get Miroslav Aleksic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2732	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the agenda point, which is extremely important for the media situation in the Republic of Serbia. What I wanted to say at the beginning of my presentation is what members of the REM Council should be and what qualities members of this council should possess. They should be honest, respectable, responsible, people of profession, people who have years or decades of experience working in the media field. Then, people who are free of any pressure, people completely financially independent, people to whom no political organisation, no NGO, can exert any pressure to plead one way or another. I listened to my predecessors today, from the opposition, carefully, especially the lovers of the Oltimer and the vineyards, especially those of... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: It is not the topic. It is a theme when we talk about the media. Those people who were at press conferences, tearing up newspapers they didn't like, those people who threatened the media, those who shut down the media and those who ended up today and said they would shut down REM. Of course, shut down 11 media, then you'll shut down REM, then you'll only recognize the court of your own party and your own personal court. We didn't fight for such a Serbia, we don't fight for such a Serbia. We are fighting for Serbia in which REM will be a fully independent institution and we have shown this from 2012 until today, with REM members remaining those chosen by former authorities and those who were the former government then extremely obedient. The SNS 2012 videos were then banned in a shameful way, there was no vote by the opposition in the media. Practically, the opposition was nowhere, except with citizens on the street with hundreds of thousands of citizens on the streets, not with ducks, not with balloons, not with banners, but with citizens who were hungry and eager for justice and freedom in the media. Those who called the media all kinds of names, including the famous winemaker, used the term "tolet paper" for the media, so in 2014, he saw the future of the media in Serbia, so the Nazis burned and ripped books. And these same gentlemen burned down the RTS building on October 5th, these are freedoms, toilet paper, breaking up newspapers at the conference, burning down national television buildings. I remember that October 5th, the enthusiasm that once ruled in one part of the citizens, the illusions that the people had at the time, but it's inadmissible to burn down the assembly building, to burn down the national television building from any rebellion. Fortunately, there is no such thing in Serbia today. One of my predecessors said that some director, the owner of television, doesn't know how to hold a remote control. Who's he to grade? What will Mr. Vineyard, when he has made such a good vineyard, which he does not go into his vineyard, let him pick grapes, make wine, not sit here in the National Assembly at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. Go, man, where you have such a good vineyard, make a business, don't get paid here from the citizens' budget. And learn something other than holding these Rules of Procedures, it's really funny to read two members of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2733	Ambassador, please let me run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2734	I'm sorry, they're very interesting. All those who spoke about media censorship today, very nicely deny an exhibition organised by the SNS, called "Uncensored Lies". It's very nice to deny them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2735	I didn't hear you. Seriously, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2736	They repeat 100 times, the exhibition "Uncensored Lies" organised last months in Belgrade, was in Krusevec, will move on. It speaks very nicely of how some see censorship in Serbia. What censorship. More than 6,000 negative headlines on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Then you put your finger on your forehead and you wonder if these people are reading a newspaper or living in another of their parallel realities, or if they're big liars. You are most denied by the citizens of Serbia. They've denied you very well in the election, put you where you belong. In the next election, you won't get a chance to raise the Rules of Procedure or sit here. In the next election, you go to the junkyard of Serbia's political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2737	The word is Anna Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2738	Dear President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point once again to the violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, which says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So, with all due respect to our fellow Filipovic, we are not really obliged to listen here either to the burning of the Assembly, nor to the burning of RTS, nor to any MP as he calls what the media, or about the exhibitions, or anything else that the distinguished colleague mentioned. Today's theme and agenda is the selection of members of the REM Council. I pray my colleagues most kindly and appeal that we really stick to the agenda and talk exclusively about the subject, to be effective, to be effective and to bring this responsible and important work to an end today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2739	There's no need to bring the end. This job will last while MPs want to discuss within the time they have. So we're not going to rush anything. The apostle spoke as much of the subject as you did. It's exactly the same. I followed your discussion in the cabinet, while I was doing something else, you were talking about tv, program advice, etc. and about candidates specifically from these three categories, three REM promoters are absolutely nothing. Introduced exposure, which is by law REM and nothing else. So, don't ask me to let one of them speak in general's debate something wider, and the other one respects it. Or everybody talk about only those six candidates, names and last names, what they are and who they are, like in elementary school or to talk a little bit wider, as the session started. If we haven't established the criteria at the beginning, get up and read about them six of what you have, then I can't even sit in half the session right now. Otherwise, since you said – again 106 means repeating the same member, it is not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2740	I thank the esteemed chairman. This media scene in Serbia is the result of work or work exactly REM, and I will start by saying what is said in art. Two, four, five and six. Public information law. The aim of the law is to improve the values of democratic society, prevent conflict and preserve peace, true, timely, credible and complete information. Public information is free and is not subject to censorship. No one can have a monopoly on publishing information. The question for REM is what it has done in the past four years and before. The body absolutely does not perform its function as it should, and it has contributed well to having a media scene like this in Serbia today. I have not seen any results of work and so far members of this regulatory body, nor have they in any way defend public interest, and the media plays a very important role primarily in creating public awareness and building a system of values in the country, and that REM should show its role. The members of the Council have so far shown absolutely no will or desire to do the work they were entrusted with, but in fact they were someone who did political and commercial concessions. The only thing I've seen interesting about them is that they have salaries higher than the president of the Republic that cross 150,000 dinars, but if we talk about what they did for those funds, I haven't been able to find anywhere, not one measure they applied, and it concerns the business of electronic media in Serbia. They may also be relieved by the fact that the prime minister did not have a single duel for these four years, not a single debate with any opposition politician in the electronic media, and then they did not have to react. Maybe that's when they'd react. As far as one of the more important jobs where I see the role of REM is to broadcast the ritils of content and reality programs that abound with pornographic content and other scenic content. These realist stars are today a role model for our children in Serbia and I ask the question – are we actually seeking such a society, are we pursuing a society where our children will look up to different starlets and starlets or society where children will be educated and educated through educational programs, as they used to be? Such programs have a very negative impact on the young population and degrade the overall media scene in Serbia, and this is something where REM has absolutely done nothing, nor taken any measures. There were some kind of announcements. But it was all without an epilogue. As we can see, commercial televisions are racing that will have more of that content. Furthermore, one of the roles of REM, which stems from the Media Privatisation Act, is that they are actually a regulator that should regulate media pluralism and the protocol commits that the Privatisation Agency will deliver an opinion on the existence or absence of media pluralism by customers. We had a law and a privatization of the media that still took the media scene backwards. What did the privatisation bring? Commercialisation, tabloidisation, lowering the credibility of information media, reducing the share of analytical and research journalism, as well as less respect for ethical standards. After the latest waves of privatisation, over a thousand workers were out of work in Serbia, and state-party media control took over the market-party institutions. Simply put, instead of the state media owners are today political parties and there are the most SNS or their exhibits that have marketed the largest number of televisions. Of the 73 media that went to the market, 34 were privatised, 20 were shut down, and 16 were given the opportunity to privatise through transfer of capital to workers. The main hero of course was Radojica Milosavljevic from Kruševac, the exhibit of Bratislava Gasic who bought eight media media that is known to be, and perhaps there are more and how he bought, what is the most interesting thing? It was precisely by giving a media tycoon 281,000 euros to buy eight media outlets, and was returned to it through budget financing of 220,000 euros. I will list examples of Kruševac and Kragujevac where RTK purchases were paid 14,000 euros, and several days before buying 17,500 euros, the same TV received for programme funding. As for TV Kragujevac, she was paid twice, once 30,000 euros, twice 44 million dinars, which is about 600,000 euros, and Kragujevac TV has been paid 85,000 euros, and I am not saying that the TV, as well as almost half of these media, is now at this point pre-exilation. That's the result. In the end, I will read the text of NUNS that says – a media scene with the human character Radojica Milosavljevic with the dynamic reality of the program and the Vučić that pops out of the refrigerator, then a months-long tabloid competition in the scaling of the murdered singer Jelena Marjanović, the release of the journalistic icon Olje Bećković for commercial reasons and media silence about the destruction of the Savala are just a sight of broad social consensus and ideologies about the degradation of the media space. In the end, today we received a letter from NUNS where they invite MPs not to vote for this proposal for a simple reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2741	You've wasted your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2742	I'll use the promoter. I've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2743	Should I give you time to read the letter? Give it to another MP. Thank you. Milena Turk, get Natasa Micic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2744	I thank the president. As prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, the Committee on Culture and Information has initiated a procedure for selecting members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. A public invitation for candidacy has been announced and a final proposal has been set out for two joint candidates with whom, of course, talks have been made. This resulted in conditions for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to be elected for a period of five years. This will enable the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to work to improve the quality and diversity of services, as well as to contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion, as well as to the protection of users of electronic media services. I'm sure the Board of Regulators, whose members are proposed men of the profession, will be worthy of the function entrusted to them. Today, however, we hear much more about censorship than those who invented censorship and applied it, especially in local communities where they used all the power that was available to them. Being a member of the SNS and acting from the opposition in the municipality of Trstenik meant living in the media war. This meant that your statements, statements, conferences were sent to community service for short notice, to extract from context, and to disenfranchise if they were to be broadcast at all. I was personally named by name and last name and my statement was neatly seduced in the TV Triestenik, but it was never broadcast, and I never got a chance to deny it, nor to explain it, nor to hear my opinion. The budget of TV Tristenik was up to 12 million dinars by 2012, and was then increased to 30 million dinars. Salaries of employees and all fees are financed directly from the municipal budget. Clean comparisons work, for agriculture and the economy together, only twenty million were allocated. So much for how important the media image was to the municipal leadership. Twice the privatization of television has been obstructed by auctioning it up to the fabulous sums, and the only goal was for privatisation to fail. During the 2016 pre-election campaign, service prices have been adjusted, so that certain political parties get more space to advertise, and some parties are completely demoted. In particular, during the campaign, spot prices were reduced 17 times so that the only political party in Trstenik that had these videos could dominate on television. Is it possible that the editor of television was also a board member of the then URS and could she objectively do her job? That's a question for someone else. When it comes to comments that the officials are coming out of the fridge, there is a joke in the municipality of Trstenik where it is said that the president of the municipality has appeared so much in the informational shows from first to last news that he could have easily continued reading. In 2016, television remained with five million dinars of debt, and only for the show technology about 800,000 with blocked accounts by the tax administration. So these are the results of a policy that the censorship does not know at all in the municipality of Trstenik. Therefore, I will support the vote of the new members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and will monitor the work and functioning of this Council. I am sure that this Board of Regulators will be worthy of the function entrusted to him and will supervise in accordance with its authority and stand in the way of such phenomena. Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: Replica! ) (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Not mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2745	Yes, I'm told by the Deputy Secretary-General that he is, I have to trust an associate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2746	Thank you, Chairman. I am very glad that the radio-television of Trstenik, in which last week, with all two vehicles escorted, came Minister Bratislav Gasic with his associates to buy it from those who received free shares, because it was about a policy on how to own that TV. Otherwise, while she was a municipal public company, everyone appeared on it, she followed both the position and the opposition, unlike now that the government was changed, no single press conference, over 20 calls we made, didn't come to send. So much for that. As for my colleague here, she first did what she did when she came to the local government, hired her husband in community service as a photographer and as a PR so she could follow her, that the picture was as long as it took. As for the TV budget, if we hadn't saved it, Mr. Gasic wouldn't have what to buy, and now you have one media that you fought for, which is serious and professional. The agricultural budget, as you yourself know, and you are not telling the truth, was one of the largest in Serbia during 2015 and 2016. It's not worth 20 million, it's 60 million dinars, with a very clear programme. So, as far as this law is concerned, this is also about media workers and their protection and the conditions in which they should be...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2747	Ambassador, we don't have the law now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2748	Okay, we don't have the law. Here, I answer only to my colleague, who, of course, seems to me, prefers to deal in this House of Trieste, but I'll let her know that this is not a local assembly, so she can deal with it at the bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2749	Well, the letter's from Triestenik, and you prefer to deal with her private life looks?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2750	No, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2751	It doesn't make sense. Your replica was...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2752	I'm just answering and I said it's true and those are the facts that I said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2753	If you can do something about the political functioning of the letter, and this is how we're going to go to the field that was honored by the MPs on this side, the apartments and some private things. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2754	Thank you, President. Since I come from the municipality of Trstenik, I believe it is my duty and obligation to present my fellow citizens in the best possible light and to fight for the interests of the citizens of Triestenik municipality. Speaking of employment, my previous speaker's husband is a leader on that TV cane and that's as a teacher. Not to mention some of the others... (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2755	Ambassador, calm down. We heard about his wife, and now we're going to hear about his wife. Don't say that. You can't jump to the Rules of Procedure when she returns with the same measure. Don't do that, show some democratic hearing. Jump when we mention a husband. Here you go, just finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2756	So this TV in the campaign was also popularly called "total URS TV", because that's all we could hear about. As for other employment, should I mention both father-in-law and other family ties?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2757	No more, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2758	I mean, really, do we have to go so far as to call and say that my previous speaker's mother-in-law's mother-in-law was headed by the National Employment Service, that it was a family network that ruled in Triestenik, so Triestenik was also called the principal? I think we should really get in the way of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2759	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: Replica! We won't, I can't let this happen anymore. I think we're gonna go to the third knee already. It can't, it's out of the question. If you have something to say to each other... (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! Don’t start the topic and ask, when you don’t know what the opposite side will answer. It's my well-intentioned advice as a lawyer and a lawyer. You went into this and you got what you wanted. End of the day, I don't want to hear about family anymore. The word is Natasa Micic, and Zvonimir Djokić after Natasha Micic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2760	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, this question of the election of REM members is not and can't be a formal question, but it should actually be. This is because neither we have achieved this degree of modernisation, nor has that body succeeded in being an independent and free body. It just didn't work out for all these years to build authority. The issue should therefore be seen in a broader context, in the context of institutions. This body is proof of how fragile our institutions are and how slow and superficial this process of building them is. Because I remember perfectly well when, after the adoption of the Law on Broadcasting in 2002 and the election of members of the Broadcasting Council in 2003, only one controversial member of those members of the proposed Broadcasting Council was the subject for days and months. The professional public and the public had been doing this for months, to the extent that the Lustration Act was blacked out at about the same time. This is actually a matter of responsibility. The body alone has great responsibility for media freedom itself, high competencies, starting with issuing permits, monitoring the work of the broadcaster, and finally giving sentences and the launch of misdemeanor and economic operators. But the responsibility is also for those who have accepted the candidacy, the responsibility is also for the promoters, in this case the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Association of Electronic Publishers and the Association of Journalists. But the responsibility is also the National Assembly, which has indeed narrowed down the prefix of the independence of this body during the previous period, by rejecting in December last year a proposal from the civilian sector to elect one member of the Council, to refuse to vote one of the two candidates proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. That already speaks enough about the fact that this independence has absolutely not been built. However, it should be said, and it is not mentioned here, that otherwise this body is not intended at all by the 2006 Constitution as independent and regulatory, because at that time it was rushing on some other issues, so we forgot our own independent institutions, and this body was not the only one. There was also the Agency for Privatisation and the Office for Securities of Values, and later the Trustee for Information, DRI and Fiscal Council. So they're absolutely left out as a category. They are reduced, i.e. This body is reduced to a category of trusted powers. So what kind of independence can we talk about if one body is already treated as a body with trusted powers? It is also absurd for this regulatory body, which is one non-state entity of the administration, to be treated, or regulated, in addition to the Law on Electronic Media, and the Law on State Administration. It is also an absurdity and also raises the question of the existence of independence of this body in the legislation itself. Of course, it is both organisational and functional, and financial independence is the most important. There should be thought of not being sufficient financial independence, as the Assembly is authorized to adopt a financial plan, and the government gives consent to general acts and also to the level of compensation, which also threatens the work of this body. Since this is part of the overall issue of freedom of the media, and it is true that this freedom of the media is in constant decline, although it has deteriorated in all parts of the world, and it is according to reports by international organisations such as Reporters without Borders, such as the Freedom House, such as the OSCE, actually with 31st day Serbia is 36th. So this decline in media freedom in the world has kind of spilled on us. What's bad is that we always show that we're part of the world when some of the negative trends are. It would be good if we were so good at sharing values with the world in some positive things. Otherwise, only the body does not have an effective regulatory policy, it improperly controls entities, individual competences and does not benefit, they are fines. In 2015, only 16 warnings were made. It is very interesting that two of these warnings were made, for example, by the Romanian society of friendship from Vrsac, one Roma centre from Valjevo, as if now these programmes of national minorities were actually the biggest problem. Also, this jurisdiction of the initiation of criminal and commercial disputes has not been sufficiently achieved. Very rarely do these procedures, let's say, only 18 of them were in 2015 and five in business, and only three complaints were made by the body. Since this body is monitored and authorized to monitor and public advertising, therefore, commercial programs, in addition to its responsibility and mild criminal policies, I would say that courts are also mild in giving sentences, so it is amazing that no court has given televisions the penalty of confiscation of profits. And so television is paid to pay the fine because more profits than that commercial program, and yet no punishment has been imposed that would actually take that property away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2761	Excuse me, please bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2762	Here, I'm bringing the end. So, since our LDP policy is sensitive to the question of freedom and the question of responsibility, we want this body to work one day and we care, of course, about the freedom of the media and the implementation of pluralism of opinion...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2763	I'm gonna have to interrupt you because you got 30 or 20 extra seconds. Thank you. National MP Miroslav Aleksic. The basis of your report is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2764	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. advertising Article 7 of Article 2. – at the session of the National Assembly it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament, to use offensive expressions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2765	Mr. Alexic, I'm going to have to interrupt you for a second, and I'm going to have to remind you of article 103. - The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the injury done. I do not see that the president of the National Assembly has done a violation of the Rules of Procedure by giving a word to the MP Natasa Micic, so I cannot give you the basis for reporting after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: I called after Milena Turk, but the president didn't see me. You spoke of what Milena Turk was saying. That's what you had to point to the moment he... (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: You didn't see me. I didn't chair. The president's out. You can't answer on that basis right now. Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2766	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, since the topic of the agenda is debate on the selection of members of the REM Council, and here we have heard almost everything and everything, at the very least an analysis of the work of the council, and this is not on the agenda. On us from power, i.e. The position is to patiently listen to what you're saying, and it is certainly up to you to use every moment for your own promotion. However, there should be some limits, some measure. In the election, the people showed which option was defined. It's our job to move forward. It's yours, unfortunately, to brake. Brake in various ways. When Serbia became a factor of stability, you invented various reasons and ways for it to become a factor of instability. I'll just remind you, I'm saying this because it's very important to understand what it is and what the role of every member of this Council of Regulatory Body, which we're saying is an independent and independent regulatory body, because any irregularity in their work can cause certain instability in that area. So, I'll remind you, I'll give you a few examples just as we, the MPs, have, through the abuse of our powers, been very easily able to lead to the instability of the Republic of Serbia and instability in the wider region. Remember, at our first session, our constitutional session, one of our colleagues was when he was given the opportunity to temporarily lead a session of the Assembly misused his right, just as an example, to talk about a politician who began his political career riding, and ended with a complete debacle of his political option, a debacle that led to the disintegration of the party. Now, in order to somehow get out of this situation at the last minute, he resorted to an irresponsible way to end the work of this Assembly at that constitutive session, perhaps unconsciously, I believe that it could have caused serious instability, both in the state and in the region. Let us remember that at that time, those days, in one of the neighbouring states, there was almost a fight in their parliament. Or to remind you, on our examples, how when we're not doing well we can also lead to some instability. At one of the most important committee meetings, as they like to say, one of our colleagues interrupted the session and set up the ultimate conditions to continue the work. And that could lead to greater problems and instability. Don't let me count on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2767	Please just get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2768	So on these examples, I wanted to tell you that if each of us performs our duties and obligations properly, everything will work exactly as it should. Members of the Governing Body Council have a very responsible duty – to be regulators in the area, they are independent and independent. I have the impression, from these discussions so far, that many debaters would be happy to get involved in the work and decision-making of the Governing Body Council itself, which is wrong. I'll take the report from the board that we got, and I'll vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2769	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2770	Mr. Milicevic, you have injured Article 27 in relation to Article 103. Earlier when a colleague asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you were practically in some kind of dialogue with him without being able to say what he had, said he had no right to receive a word at his request. Article 103 says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury on the part of the President of the National Assembly, and when any MP comes forward, you are obliged to give him your word and he has two minutes to explain what the injury is. Someone will need shorter, someone longer, sometimes that explanation will be meaningful, sometimes less meaningful, but you are obliged to listen to everyone. There are in the following positions, a provision that gives you the right to, if it comes to abuse, punish that MP, but you never have the right to in advance, without reason, deny someone the right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure by you or anyone else. So, please, no matter what I don't think well of the parliamentary group from which the gentleman comes, but that's a general principle. I find it intimate, even very amusing, and I must admit it when I watch them go by in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that they have brought, because that MP is, the Rules of Procedure was designed to punish and silence members of the SRS, but at the time the DS representatives were not aware that the beating had two sticks and that they would not be forever in power. Now they harvest the fruits of what they sow, but that doesn't mean that you and the little rights that MPs have don't have to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2771	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: And do you accept that it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I will explain to you, I do not accept that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, I fully agree with you, each of the Members of Parliament, each of the colleagues has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not two, but up to two minutes from Mr. Aleksic's first 30 seconds I realized he was speaking to the MP Milena Turk. If a breach of the Rules of Procedure was done, and it concerns the way Milena Turk's MP spoke, he should have done so the moment the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done. You are absolutely right, there is a possibility that if the chairman assesses that there has been an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 103, that he will sanction the MP in a certain way. Let's say, taking away the time that belongs to the parliamentary group that Mr. Alexic belongs to. There was no such possibility, because the time spent by the parliamentary group, which Mr. Alexic, belonged, was exhausted and spent. No, now I've tried to explain to Mr. Sarovic that I agree with certain findings... I did, of course, you didn't hear, I did, of course, the first 40 seconds, of course, yeah. Thank you. We're moving on. The People's Messenger Maja Vidinović has the word, so let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Krsta Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2772	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as I spoke a few days ago when we talked here about the election of judges and prosecutors, and I stressed that every debate and vote on candidates should be discussed in the broader context of the biography itself. Unfortunately, this width today in the discussion went into incredible proportions that only bare the diversity of our character and what more dangerous than that, intent, so we had the opportunity to hear that some man owns television privately, and he can do whatever he wants and there is no clear objection from any fellow MP who has such a thing. On the other hand, we have heard the worst possible insults we have ever been convinced to represent the past, unfortunately in this House as representatives of NGOs, have been declared by foreign mercenaries and traitors, which has also made the political position that they should not be proposing at all, and in that sense your initiative to amend the law is something that is legitimate, something that I absolutely disagree with politically, but we should not talk about this way. When we talk about the context of selecting candidates for members and REM members, we should address this context from two topics. First, powers and the importance of jobs and obligations are more important than those of REM and secondly is the relationship it has towards independent institutions, which I also consider more than significant. When we talk about the powers and importance of business and obligations of REM, we are essentially talking about the right of every citizen and citizen to objective information, about the fundamental right that those as recipients of services have a quality program. We're talking about citizens' rights to a program that doesn't mock their intelligence that doesn't narrow their rights, that doesn't endanger such rights. On the other hand, today we are from colleagues and colleagues, fellow Djurisic was talking about the report and monitoring of broadcasters in the pre-election campaign, the fact that we did not have such a thing for 2016. The information programmes of individual televisions with national frequencies and what REM would in publishing after the competition and after issuing a national frequency permit, which is a public good and public interest to us as responsible people, is to address this issue. They have a legal obligation, it says in the law to control continuously, to control whether these conditions are met. But what's very interesting, that's what my colleagues and colleagues said today, that their reports are in the form of some declarative conclusions that have no consequence with them. My colleague, Natasa Micic, spoke earlier, and I believe that this is an important topic that I am confident is waiting for us in the next period, it is a question of sanctioning any changes to the law of judicial practice. It's a very slippery terrain when we talk about freedom of the media because something that's anything can resemble censorship or endanger that freedom is alarming. So, when we talk about these reports, we have a REM report where for 2015 I quote, says none of the five commercial TVs have fulfilled their obligation under the Electronic Media Act. That's where their reports end. The 2014 conclusion, for example, that TV Pink broadcast the most advertising content, 15.24, is the only thing that does not say that it has had the most extraordinary involvements, the most public impact-related and emergency-related emissions. So this is a review of the state without using the powers that stand before REM, and that's what should concern us. When we talk about the right of citizens to objective information, the right to have quality content, we are also talking about the fact that today we have a brutal violation of law and abuse, mostly one television with a national frequency that today, if it looks like something, looks like either government media, or much worse than that, to the media of a Prime Minister. On that television, emergency monitoring is being created and monitored, and emergency programs are being regularly created. Regular programs are constantly interrupted and I have to ask if this television has competed for national frequency it has certainly attached the programming scheme and it is quite clear that the programme scheme did not stand if and if the emergency situation or someone's idea indicates that this week's idea is to have a coup, to create dozens of extraordinary emissions about it. We have the fact that REM doesn't react, possibly in its conclusions, to determine that condition. So we have a fact that on that television with a national frequency back several years we have a public trial, with an investigation, with a verdict. Also, it's silently not mentioned. It is mentioned in the European Commission's reports, the REM reports do not say a word. To whom RRA corresponds as a guardian of the public interest, as a guardian of the letters of the law, as someone who ultimately corresponds to the National Assembly, to us who represent citizens who we have the right and if there is some space for dialogue that is the National Assembly and this session. To whom REM corresponds if the answers requested by the public do not come to Members of the public who are representatives of the citizens, I do not want to prejudge and to question who in this way publicly, but this transparency in the work is something that is a big problem. On the other hand, when we talk about problems with which the situation in the media and what defines the area of REM, we are talking about a relationship to independent institutions. My colleague Vesna Marjanović, who was chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information in the preceding period, met all of you, and mostly citizens, with the genealogy of the case that there was an amazing mockery and procedure of democracy last year when he proposed candidates for REM members and one candidate, unfortunately, I must say, I also spoke about it at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Goran Pekovic, except for the biography, which is completely undeniable and quite impressive, running for his work, given that he was the only candidate who was already a REM member. This work is controversial and susceptible to discussion and much more important than that, unfortunately, that today it is being run by the way and the procedure of choice and how he came here to talk about it today. So, the procedure was violated, a colleague of the Vesna spoke more of it, a halted and blocked legislative procedure and voting procedure here on the tide, humiliated NGOs who had been authorized by the proposings, who were waiting for such a thing to come on the agenda. What's the point, actually, is that the naked matrix that this government, unfortunately for democracy, by the rule of law, by the protection of public interest, is working all this time, which is the threat of independent institutions, mocking the rule of law, and that's something that was evident in this process. They remind me of my colleagues on time. Leaving to my colleagues, I just have to say in the end that citizens have the right to objective information so that they understand this breach of procedure. Citizens have the right to objective information and quality media content and REM has the obligation to enable them to respond to violations and on the other hand, we have an obligation as MPs to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2773	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2774	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the media space in Serbia, the huge media space in Serbia, the SNS affair, the Serbian government, did not receive only those affairs that have not yet been invented by the opposition and which have not yet been fabricated. Everyone else who is has been fully supported and fully presented through many, many media, although some censorship is being talked about here. At the very beginning of today's session, I'm going to try to present all of this through an example of what's called the so-called "sex." media censorships, and this example will refer to interesting events, extractions from the context, and then generating very negative news from what is coming out of the context. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic initially said that a school near Novi Pazar changed the name "Svet Savia" in the name "Bin Zaid". Why am I saying this and why am I on the subject? I am in the topic because the news has been dragged many times through the media that one school has downloaded the name of our enlightener and that it has received another name and you have been able to read this news in many places and in many media, but you are nowhere, more specifically where you could find the news that the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is the first prime minister to visit the Rain Valley at Novi Pazar, that the first prime minister to visit Rastko Nemić's hometown is Mistic. That's rarely where you could find it. But if she had changed the name of St. Sava's School to "Bin Zaid", you could have found that in the media. I'm surprised when it was censorship, why it happened like that. You couldn't hear much in the media how much was invested in that part of the Rain Valley. You couldn't hear much in the media how much school was built, how much was invested in travel and sports infrastructure, and you couldn't hear much in the media that in Rastak Nemanje's hometown construction began, with the support of the Serbian government, a magnificent temple dedicated to our lighthouse. We couldn't hear it in the media, and when I talk about the media, it seems to me we're on the subject. When we talk about media that didn't speak affirmably about the Serbian government, about the prime minister, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and when we talk about the media that spat on the prime minister, you're doing business on the table. Very correct on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2775	Mr Janjusevic, there is no need to address the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2776	I'm sorry, but I'm distracted with this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2777	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2778	Who started this whole story? Mr. Zoran Zivkovic started. I believe that media space needs for many reasons to get a lot more material about Saint Savi. Why? Because much can be learned from it, and let's just say, one story can be interesting, and that's when, while St. Sava was walking through Serbia, he came across a vineyard, where people came up and there were ten, but they couldn't possibly add up to ten.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2779	I'm asking you to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2780	I'll tell you why I'm on the subject. He helped them, I'll cut them short, to get them together, but I think in that vineyard of Mr. Zivkovic, it's hard to gather. What I want to add, and yes, as well as the DJ gentlemen are returning me to the topic, as far as the media is concerned, the media is being heard, so a gentleman in America heard through our media that it is possible for you to come to Serbia, become a minister, lie down on your aunt's couch and wake up with millions of dollars. It's the power of the media. You see how transparent the media was. A man came, lay down. However, he forgot that in the government of Alexander Vukic, a minister who has to lie down in his aunt's couch and tomorrow night is in that aunt's couch and the day after tomorrow and will wake up until he buys a better couch from his own salary. To be taken out in Serbia can't be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2781	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2782	Thank you. Infringement of Article 106, Article 107 and Article 27 in relation to Articles 106 and 107. The theme is the selection of REM members, if we extend it is the work of REM, if we further expand it is the state of the media, but the topic is not the prime minister in the media, the topic is not the Holy Sava, the topic is not the aunt on the couch. Please, before choosing me to be a National MP, I have been very successful in my life to avoid finding out from the tabloids who's with which starlet, who's been drinking as many beers, who's been riding in politics. However, there seems to be no more indignity. Ever since I was elected to this assembly, I've been doomed to find out all this, she didn't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2783	The basis of your report is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've pointed out certain members. Please explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2784	Here, Article 107, paragraph 1, we are destroying the continued dignity of the National Assembly by talking about tabloid topics instead of topics that are on the agenda, as ordered by Article 106. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2785	Thank you. I do not think that MP Krsto Janjušević spoke about tabloid topics. On the contrary, I think he was talking about what, among other things, was the subject of today's session, which was spoken of by one of the fellow Members of the people. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2786	Thank you. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2787	Mr Bozovic, before I give you my word, for technical reasons, as you notice, we will have to take a short break of 10 minutes. After that, you'll definitely get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you fellow Members of Parliament to leave the room for a period of 10 to 15 minutes, so that our services can check what is the problem with our technique here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-11-0.u2789	MPs, it's better if we don't take a break like this than if we keep working for 10.00 hours and the firemen do their part of the job. Tomorrow at 10.00 hours, so we don't come in every 10, 15 minutes. It's better that way. Thank you. Good afternoon, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 102 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have working conditions. Today, he informed us that he was prevented from attending the session by Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We're continuing with a list of speakers from yesterday. First on the list is Alexander Chabrai. Get Dragana Barisic ready. Here you go.
