ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8983	I thank the president. When I look at these joint reactions of certain media and opposition during last night's debate, I get the impression that we've touched into the oatmeal itself. My amendment concerns the salary of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter. During last night's debate, I've tried to get word over and over again when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, so if you'll excuse me, I'd consider these two topics now since I think they're very connected. I'll just make a little introduction. Some time ago, I asked the MP a question to the Citizens' Protector in which I condemned his shameful abuse of children for political purposes. I received an answer to this question in which he said he pointed to the difficult position of children before 2012. I don't really slow it down. But he has never before accused any government of endangering children with its own measures, as he did a few weeks ago. My first intention was to submit an amendment relating to the Citizens' Protector, but as my colleagues have already done so, I felt that Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Public Information, should not be neglected and that they should not be separated at all. Moreover, I think it is very incorrect that even a hundred Serbian citizens have proposed Sasa Jankovic as president of Serbia, not Rodoljub Sabic. It's not fair, because man has made an honest effort to please the opposition and to like different foreign embassies, to go out of his charge daily and use his function for political purposes. If we look real, who in this country knew about them before 2012? They were almost inconspicuous. After 2012, the two become real media personalities. Almost every day we can hear one and above all a political statement from the two of them. There's one very important thing I want to say about treating sick kids right now. In the first ten months of this year alone, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has sent 449 children abroad, while in 2012, the figure was 49 children, almost ten times smaller. If we see that there are developments in the sense that there are new diagnosiss, that there are new clinics abroad where we treat children, that in 2014 the Government set up a budget for the treatment of severely ill children, it is clear that from year to year we are detaching more and more funds for this purpose. And in such an atmosphere that the Citizens' Protector says that the government is threatening sick children with its own measures, I think it's absolutely shameful behavior. My proposal, this amendment, first of all, is to urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider these high salaries and not just these two public figures. There's still a lot of pay here, considering it's serious numbers. I think we can make serious savings here, and I can also make the Protector and the Trustee think for themselves, given that they care deeply about the situation of children, to be solid, especially when it comes to the Protector of citizens who have come into office in the name of wages, received over 300,000 euros, and I think that he is able and, on his own case, to show child care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8984	Thank you. Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8985	According to the amendment, I'm using the time of the head of the parliamentary group. We have an amendment promoter who proposed an amendment regarding the Commissioner for the Protection of Information, and he talked all the time about the Citizens' Protector. This is the third amendment from last night on this subject. We obviously have a unique approach. We have a unique approach trying to disqualify all those who might represent political opponents, serious political opponents to the current majority. It's absurd that the amendment is directed at the Protector of Information, and that all the time we talk about the Protector of Citizens. I think the answer to this question, first of all, is to invite both the Citizens' Protector and the Protector of Information, call on the Assembly, to submit their reports, and I think it's a theme for this Assembly, and it's obvious that what we're looking at for days in the Assembly, that every potential political opponent attacks personally, disqualifies himself, and that's what we're looking at from day to day. Another absurd thing. We have heard the amendment's proposals that propose and explain these proposals, and they themselves know and have already said that most of them will not adopt this because both the list bearer and the Prime Minister have come to terms with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8986	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8987	I understand the need for counterpart Goran Ciric to defend the Citizens' Protector, given that it is their staff. I was also talking about the Guardian and the Trustee, because that's where I notice the same model of behavior. What we didn't get an answer to in these two days, do you think it's okay that either one, or any other, abuse their function in political promotion? Do you really not recognize the political promotion in behavior above all Sasha Jankovic? The question arises – can anyone say anything to them here? If I remember correctly, did 2013 or 2014 when they were in this Assembly for some sharp criticism, I think, Mr. Rističević wanted to leave the Assembly? I think this is a subject you can talk about. I don't see what's controversial about it. I said that the objective of the amendment is for the government to consider in the future whether it can make those savings and save on many other examples, because we certainly know that there are other officials who have extremely high salaries and that we can do one rationalization in terms of savings. But we wanted to see if it's really possible for some people to be told all the time, that there's always talk about what wages are, and above all when it comes to government officials, and that the trustee and the Protector can never be told anything, without objectively doing their function properly. Apparently, there are serious abuses in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8988	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8989	It is obvious that the name and last name of the Trustees and Protectors and many other people, but I think it is important to say what we are repeating here in the Assembly and in the debate on the budget, because here we are talking about both the budget and the amendments, that the DS insists on respecting the law. We have called on both the prime minister and the minister and the entire government to respect the law on deadlines, budget proposals, to propose measures to resolve the level of public debt, as we insist on this subject respecting the law. The law defines the receipts of these people mentioned as being received by the President of the Constitutional Court. The moment we change the laws, we can discuss it and propose these laws that the congregation should adopt. That's what DS insists on. About whether these people are doing their job well, I think they are doing it, that's my opinion, because they have enough and courage and expertise to open up all the topics in our Republic, and they especially insist on respecting human rights, respecting the legality and respect of the institutions that this country needs to build. Once again, call these people, it is our legal obligation in the Assembly to discuss their reports and their work, and I think that this is a place in which in such a way, civilizedly, we can talk about them when they get the opportunity to answer both you and all MPs who have questions about their work, objections to their work and everything that could be heard in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8990	Thank you. By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8991	Thank you, Chairman. I want to take a discussion on this amendment by Ambassador Mark Parezanovic. Again, some MPs will not discuss the essence of this amendment clearly. The essence of the amendment, I must say, is similar to the one we talked about yesterday when it came to reducing the salaries of the Guardian of Citizens. And this time, this amendment is about a very clear matter. The MP Parezenovic asked that the monthly receipts of the trustee for information of public importance and protection of personality data be reduced. His salary is now, as stated here, which stands de facto and de jure, because he receives that money a month, corrected by Minister Vulin yesterday and he will give us accurate information, but slightly less than 400,000 dinars. What do you say? I apologize to the trustee, it's 376,000 dinars, not 400,000. I apologize deeply for the error of 25,000 dinars. People's MPs speak out loud. Please, just don't bother me. So, what does Ambassador Parezanovic want with this amendment? He believes the Commissioner for Public Information can do his job properly and adequately for a salary that would be more appropriate and approximately the salary of the president of the Republic of Serbia, which is something of around 130,000 dinars. We have to and we can agree, and you may not agree, that the salary of 130,000 dinars is not small in the Republic of Serbia at all, that the Prime Minister of the Republic... I really can't talk if the MPs yell and win.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8992	Mr. Krassic, please calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8993	They're not getting to me, they're getting to each other, but it's distracting a simple MP. Nothing, I'll wait, I've got all the time you want, it's no problem. I've come to work for my salary since, as we said yesterday, MPs have 65-66 thousand dinars, plus cobwebs. I'll do my job fair and square, I don't need a salary of 39,000 dinars to listen here to throw and yell. I don't mind that. So, if the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has equal to 120 - 130 thousand dinars, MPs are known to have 65,000 dinars, a big question is raised, and a moral dilemma in front of all MPs in this plenary -- what do they defend when MPs are asking for a salary of 396 - 397 thousand dinars to be much smaller, to pay for this important job to be about 130 thousand dinars, and what prevents the trustee from doing so, in this case is the Commissioner for Information of Public Matter, what prevents the trustee from doing well, properly, in order to do his job and to provide Serbian citizens with all information of public importance and to protect personal data? So we didn't hear that argument. We have heard how the Serbian Progressive Party is troubled by this or that personality. That's not true. We don't mind the function, we don't mind the amount of money and that huge salary, and we don't see what it all really means. We don't see what a peasant in Gornji Trepca has from the Personal Protection Commissioners and those who have salaries of nearly 400,000 dinars, what he has done to a particular ordinary citizen of this country for this huge amount of money and why he can't afford it for 130 thousand dinars. That's what this is about. Don't sell fog to Serbian citizens, so -- oh, dear, we're against someone. Well, we don't shut down functions. Here some MPs who do not want to vote in favour of this amendment will not vote simply because you would not say that we are against introducing these important functions for citizens of Serbia, and those who will vote in favour, they believe that this can be done for a perfectly reasonable salary of 120 – 130,000 dinars. Let's see how many neurosurgeons in this country are making. Don't tell me that their business is some worthless business and that they can work and operate on people for 120 – 130,000 dinars and trustees for 400,000 dinars, we're jeopardizing their own business. The entire budget is about 203 million dinars. We're sure Minister Vulin will tell us, I would ask you ministers to say, what amount of 203 million dinars of this budget are going to pay, and what amount goes for some other necessary things so that the Information Commissioner can carry out his work? That's the point. Everything else is a fog sale. Everything else is a discus and the impact of the blizzards on gamma rays. So we're not talking about the point. Is there anyone in this country, in this economic situation, when it's being saved, that has a salary of 397 thousand dinars and can he do his job honorably, well essentially do, and that nothing threatens his role as trustee for 120 – 130,000 dinars? A surgeon can, an architect can, a professor in college can. Then it's really a huge question mark. I said I wouldn't vote for these amendments, but when I see how it's discussed, when I see how hard people live in this country, intellectuals with huge salaries who care about us, who care about our health, then I'll really think about what this is all about until the day of voting, if we hear only arguments – you're jeopardizing their function, their function. So, I ask Minister Vulin's answer to tell us, in this budget that we have foreseen for the functioning of the Commissioner for Public Information, what amount goes to wages, and how much for the functioning of him as a trustee? Not him as Rodoljub Šabić, I am not at all interested in the name of this trustee, I am interested in how much money goes for wages, and how much for something else, to finally hear what it is that enables the trustee of information of public importance to do his job well essentially. As far as these reports are concerned, don't tell any lies. A year and a half ago, this was the first conference on which reports were presented here. Here they were in the three trustees' room, here in the O.R., we talked to them about the reports and their reports were adopted. Let's hear where they were, when they were in this House, to defend their reports here in plenary, and 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, etc., by the time we adopted the laws that established these important functions? So let's talk once about the essence of things, the essence of the amendment, and the essence of the amendment is money and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8994	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8995	Thank you, Your Honor. This discussion shows the SNS running dirty campaigns. So here we're listening to the discussion as, here, the Citizens' Protector and the Public Information Trustee have huge salaries and now, here, we want to cut those salaries, but we can't. Then we're talking about it in the budget debate. We listen from MPs, who have been Members of Parliament for many years, who should know and tell Serbian citizens that the salaries of the Guardian of Citizens, Trustees and other independent institutions are determined by the law he says - the salary is the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court for the Protector of Citizens, the salary of the trustees is the salary of the Supreme Court judge. Their salaries shall be determined by the Administrative Board. So we do everything here, not those people. You're making a picture here now that they've set their own wages and there's nothing we can do about it now. Well, you can do it. We're listening to the President of Parliament say she can't. Well, put in a proposal to amend and supplement the law, change the law and cut those salaries, if that's the only problem in this country and the only problem in the functioning of those institutions. I don't want to be a lawyer here, people who perform these functions, but they've repeatedly said it's not pay and it's absolutely certain that it's not pay that bothers them to do that responsible job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8996	You're bringing the end, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8997	Why should I bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8998	Excuse me. So that's what this is about. We've been listening here for seven minutes – ow, they've got high wages and no one can touch it. He can touch it, you can touch it, but he can touch it right. Change the law and cut wages. You're the ones who can determine, only you, most of you, and you won't do it, just to have a way to run the campaign, as you only know, with the most shameless attacks on people for two years. If you want to talk about their work, file a report. You put it once three years ago, so put it back on. It's supposed to be put every year. Well, put it back on, if you can, and let's talk about the state of civil rights, human rights in Serbia and how state authorities treat information of public importance. Put it here on the agenda, let's discuss it. No, this is how you're going to run the campaign. We don't have any citizens. Well, citizens don't have money for you. You're those surgeons, the professors, you cut your salary by 10%. (Marko Parezenović, from town: Lopino. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u8999	Is it okay if my colleague tells me I'm a thief, the chairman? Is that okay, telling me I'm a ball?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9000	I really didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9001	You didn't hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9002	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9003	Okay. Well, lucky you didn't hear. Listen up. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9004	The right to a replica, First National MP Maja Gojkovic, Parezovic, then to mention the party Aleksandra Tomic. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Parezanovic's replica because he told me I was a thief? Is that a basis for replication? No, it's his amendment that you talked about and accused him of conducting an election campaign. Is it or isn't it? (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I'm talking about the amendment, I didn't even mention him.) ) Right to replica, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9005	Now to think of the honourable messenger that because of his shouting and insulting someone here will give up their position. I'm not giving up my attitude, you can yell. You can say that I'm ignoring myself, so I'll continue to ignore myself, Your Honor. You can say I'm having a dirty discussion. Okay, you're having a clean discussion, and I'm having a dirty discussion. So you're not gonna shut us up here to talk about money. The esteemed Citizens' Protector and the esteemed Commissioner for Public Information were here at the tide, I was president, I put it on the agenda, we heard the reports and were unanimously adopted. Dot. Are citizens in a difficult situation because of the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic or are in a difficult situation so they must, together with all of us, carry out economic measures for the robbery of their assets, for the destruction of their standard during some others rule this country, that's what the citizens will say in the elections, as they said in the last two cycles exclusively in the elections, because it is the only way to assess whether someone robbed or not, and have chosen again for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Dot. So you can't say that the streets or that you're going to determine who's to blame and what Serbian citizens feel is who's to blame for the difficult economic situation. Apparently, most Serbian citizens believe that the predecessors, DOS's various members, regardless of what they were called or what they were called, have destroyed this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9006	Two minutes, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9007	My question remains, however pointless, stupid, neglectful – why can the Information Commissioner not do his job properly for a salary of less than 396,000 dinars? So shout and insult me further. I consider, as did the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9008	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. The right to reply for mentioning the parliamentary group and party, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Once said, two minutes, right on the line. National MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9009	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, in order to explicitly put the truth in the public, because of Serbian citizens, on page 76 of the Budget Law, you can see under classification 411 and 412 that a total of 139 million dinars is the Fund for Salaries of all employees, when we talk about the Trustee of Public Information and Data Protection, which is 68.5% of the total fund of this institution. Therefore, it is not SNS' fault that such a salary fund was made, because the law was passed at the time of those who are now defending it. You thought you'd solve your political influence simply with money, but that's not how it works anymore. Those times are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9010	By amendment, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9011	I'm thanking you. I hope I have the right to discuss it. Looks like if you're a member of the SNS and an MP you can't discuss. So I'd like you to buy me one, just because I'm a member of the SNS, a patch. That would be nice. So, if you can allow me, Your Honor, to continue to ignore this very important topic for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9012	I agree that the subject is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9013	Please allow me to ignore myself as much as I can, in my full political capacity given to me by Serbian citizens, as MPs. I hope that I will discuss as dirty as possible, as Ambassador Marko Djurisic said, because he believes that 400,000 dinars are quite an adequate reward for the Protector to do his job properly. We have not heard essentially what is well done for 400,000 dinars, and why can't someone elected by the Serbian Parliament do their job well and properly for 130,000 dinars. All the rest is sticking labels to SNS MPs, selling fog and having a discussion like I said. So, the impact of the eerie neon on gamma rays, and the impact of gamma rays on the spooky, depends on whether we have a discussion before noon or in the evening. This is where the essence is avoided. The point is just money. Just the money. So, they're running out of mandate, I don't know in a year, I haven't followed, I really don't have time, I work here for about 20 hours to prepare a session where someone's going to say I'm ignoring myself. So I can't follow those deadlines. In a year, someone else will be elected. I have no idea who they are. Maybe you do. Now, you'll be in a position to run this country, maybe next year, and you'll have most of them. Well, we'll ask the others -- why does a salary have to be 39,000 dinars? Why the storm is causing an amendment asking for the salary of 130,000 dinars. Here, let's not say that high-ranking officials in this country have so much pay, that MPs have 65,000 dinars of pay, it doesn't matter. Let the trustee who protects the rights of the citizens of this country in various areas on the salary of a professor at the university, on the salary of a surgeon. What's the problem? Well, no, we'll hear, here it is, here it is. You won't be discussing the point. Why? Well, because they'll phone you this afternoon and you say, "What do you do, people, why do you cut our wages?" I want a salary of 396,000 dinars, cut to 130,000. I think it's an extremely high salary and my neighbor Jelena might vote for you, too. And these peasants from Upper Trepce will all run to vote for you. Don't worry, and those in Futoga will vote for you. But show it, not to protect this and the one that may be your candidate in some elections, and who have long stopped performing the function of what we have chosen in parliament here. Well, they weren't chosen by the people, we voted for them, all unanimously, and the SNS voted for them a few years ago. Well, why don't you say so? They lost that function a long time ago, they're involved in politics. (Zoran Krasic, from town: Time. This is not the time, I have time for a parliamentary group to talk as much as I want because I was authorized by my parliamentary group. That's right, I can ignore as much as I want, I can dirtyly discuss as much as I want, but I want the citizens to know that people who do business on their behalf and for them, means, in the minds and interests of Serbian citizens today have a salary of 39,000 dinars in this difficult situation. The budget for their operation is huge, and 80% of it goes exclusively for the salaries of them and their associates. The amendments proposed by individual SNS deputies only require that these payments be reduced and that these salaries be about 120, 130,000 dinars and nothing more. I don't see what's so difficult about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9014	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9015	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I really didn't think I was answering this part of the agenda. Yesterday we said what we had to say, but as I see Mr. Jankovic's political role, Shabic is so large that he simply causes political reactions. As far as the institutions themselves are concerned, I can talk about them, as I see it, the Assembly has recognised them both as political figures that have their own political views and political views of statements. But let's go back to the amendment itself and what was asked of me. So, as far as the Public Security Commissioner is concerned, his budget is 203 million dinars, of which 140 million dinars go to salaries, and of the services contracted by 33 million 061 dinars. There were 71 persons employed by Mr. Sabic and we received a request to employ 17 more persons. I just want to draw your attention that these are the only institutions that have not been rationalized, no layoffs and no budget cuts or any of the employees. So this is about institutions and institutions have to be guarded or defended and there is no need to mix them with those who lead them. If I have so far suspected that there will be candidates for a particular political party, following these reactions, two days in parliament, I have no doubt at all, but obviously there is one problem. I don't think these gentlemen would work for such a small salary for the president of Serbia, I think it makes them question whether to accept the candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9016	You don't have a colleague, Đurisic, right to the replica, she never mentioned you once. According to the amendment, MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9017	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable Ministers, the SNS does not seem to have any intention of reducing the salary or the Commissioner for Information, nor the Citizens' Protector. If you wanted to cut their salary, you could have proposed amendments to the laws that regulated their salaries. Five years in power, you chose Jankovic in 2012 and now you're talking about his big salary. If it's a big salary, cut your salary. It can be done by most, by the Administrative Board. This is where people are being bribed as someone asks to hire more people in one service or another. The systematisation of jobs in both one and another independent regulatory body determines the Serbian and Serbian parliaments can also determine that rationalisation if they will, but apparently the SNS did not want to do so, and the SNS will not do so today. Amendments to the budget have been tabled which certainly cannot be reduced and are all done to bring down the institution and the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner. It has nothing to do with Jankovic or Shabic. The Serbian Progressive Party cannot bear a different voice, and a different voice has been heard from these institutions in recent years. You want to bring down these institutions, that they don't exist, that citizens don't trust them. And you hear a different voice because the SNS government violates human rights in this country and it's good to hear that voice. That's why we're having this debate here that you initiated. So the only goal is to destroy these institutions by talking about how big the salaries you've set are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9018	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. Wait a minute, I'm full of lists. By the way, you've made one mistake in your speech, not independent regulatory bodies, esteemed president, but independent institutions. I'm sorry, I thought he was the president of the group. That's your biggest problem. Well, yes, just slowly, to calm the MPs, I can't give you my word. I want to see your name as soon as your colleagues and your list clear. So they're not independent regulatory bodies, they're REM, they're independent institutions, they're honourable MPs. I'm sorry. I didn't know you weren't group president. The right doesn't have a minister. You know, it says in the Rules of Procedure, after the address of the one who was given the word. I gave the Minister Voul's line to you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Voulina has not been spoken to. I will give the word to the minister, because he does not cry, and you shout, and a man is courteous, waiting for me to give him the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9019	It seems to me that now we've really come to the core of the problem. So, look, here these amendments require a reduction in personal income, wages, in line, believing that the job will be done equally well and for less money. That's not what we're discussing here. It's said here, because there's a second voice. Wait, wait, so it doesn't matter how they work, whether they do or what they do, and whether they can do what they do for this or less amount of money, but what their voice is, whether it's a different voice, I guess from the authorities, I guess that voice is different from the authorities. So that's the criterion. As much as you stand up to the authorities, you're as good for the trustee or the Protector. It has nothing to do with what the law provides for them to do. They deal with the state of human rights or what is already provided for in their law, not whether they are in conflict with the authorities or not in conflict with the authorities. That is why I am asking MPs not to think about personalities, but to think about the institutions we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9020	Thank you. Zoran Krasic, you have no more time. You have a group. Do you want to? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9021	Can you do that? You got it. I'd just draw your attention, advertise the amendment and advertise that you won't vote for the amendment. Now you've got us confused when to trust you, when you explained the amendment or when you admitted you wouldn't vote for the amendment. Now, I find the amendment interesting. Why? Well, if it could have been for the pensioners this way, which wouldn't have been possible for others. But it's obvious the law was missed. In the light of the time of Mladjan Dinkic, this thing, the shagging, it was a budget, so someone brought him to the mirror, and then he started doing these things both with transitional and final provisions of the Budgetary System Act and then they were archaeological, there those members eventually. There are indications that these things can be solved by the regulation that has been settled. According to that logic, if there is a condition here to regulate the salary of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, then let us also return pensions to the Law on Pension-Employment and there to regulate pensions, so that in the Law on the Judiciary we can regulate the salaries of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and we can go to the Constitutional Court Act, and we can cut those salaries there. So it's moral for pensioners to suffer, it's morally tolerated by civil servants, and it's not moral for the Guardian, the Trustee, the Constitutional Court Judges, the Supreme Cassation Court, Danica Draskovic. Why didn't you mention her? She is the highest-paid civil servant, ranging from seven to ten thousand euros in the NIS. Well, people, if you want to be human, if you want to take your hands off, then go to all the material-legal regulations and cut those salaries, so say - the President of the Republic is the biggest, the Prime Minister next to him, the vice president of the third, judges the fifth, the sixth these, the seventh them, the MPs be the 20th, not the problem, but give the system, and not like this, we'd like to cut it, but we don't know how we're going to cut it, and the individual bill on the height of the salary brought by the administrative board. Please concentrate in time and space and be both dad and mom for everyone, and pensioners and educators and cops and soldiers and everything, all in order. Someone's being protected by high-paying independence. Let's protect by paying the elemental existence of people, it is more primary to me than its independence, or these regulatory bodies that prescribe all the regulations that already exist in Croatia, because they are members of the EU, so we will be, too, so let's rewrite theirs. Well, determine who's in charge of what you want. If you really want it to shrink, say, we'll write you how it can be reduced by law, but don't have selectively, but give it in line with the fiscal strategy, with financial consolidation, to share the same thing. Well, if someone takes off 10, let's all take off 10, and not this -- now I don't like the Guardian, now we're gonna take off his salary by the wrong law. Don't say that. You've been some MPs here for a long time. It had to get in your head the way it was going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9022	I can't call those who answer like this because others are on the list. Milan Lapcevic has no more time. You've wasted your time. So one less.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9023	I wanted to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9024	I believe you wanted to support it, but you don't have any more time. You've disbanded the group. You've got to do something about it. Then you'll have time to discuss. Sasa Radulovic has time and is on the list. I can give him my word to free the list, and I'll give it to the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9025	Thank you. These two independent institutions of the Civil Protection System and the Public Information Trustee are indeed the real independent institutions of the system that do their work in accordance with the laws and the Constitution and the competences they have received. Obviously, it is very disturbing for the authorities, and not only for this authority, whoever is in power, clearly in Serbia is being disturbed by independent institutions of the system. Had it not been for these institutions of the system, many things would not have been possible in Serbia. When we look at their budgets, they're e.g. less than the budget that Krkobibic received. Krkobbiæ received 225 million dinars, imagine Omudsman, the Citizen's Protector received slightly more than 200 million. And the Commissioner for Public Information is also just a little over 200 million. This whole debate is obviously extremely hypocritical, because, you know, you can't cut someone's salary by budget. So this is a political performance, or attempt to score some points. It's not clear to me, since obviously this is a very good support campaign for both the Manchester and the Commissioner for Public Information, that they're doing their job well, and the citizens know that these two institutions are really doing their job well. Nautilus has launched some very important topics. He didn't let the Savamale problem go unimpeached. He was doing his job. He didn't let the question of helicopters go unnoticed, sort of cover up, but he really went to do his job, and then we saw how many things were going on behind the scenes and how badly the government was doing its job. Then, in addition, he gave a little light on what happened to the prime minister's brother's problems during "The Parade of Pride", so all the things that happened in society, this independent system institution is actually doing its job and working in the citizens' interest, so that citizens know what's going on in society and to discover what the government is trying to hide. When we talk about the Commissioner for Public Information, everyone who deals with any kind of research in Serbia, who wants to get information about what the state is doing, how their money is spent, the secret contracts that have been signed, that there is no Commissioner for the Protection of Information from Public Meaning, these data would not come out at all in the light of the day, so this is one great gratitude from our parliamentary group and on behalf of all citizens who vote for the DJB, gratitude and the Manchester and the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against the public importance that they do their job well. And also, this discussion, that even one such bizarre item of the agenda, that is, this bizarre amendment is on the agenda at all, is proof that they are doing their job insinuating power. I will make one promise here, and that is, when we win the election, and that will happen very quickly, we will never obstruct the independent institutions of the system. They are there to protect the interests of citizens, to work in accordance with the law, and that supervision they perform and the criticism they give is in the interest of citizens and, of course, they need to keep government under control and monitor them and control them. As this congregation should supervise and control the government, it has actually become a mat of power, where the government is doing what comes to mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9026	Ambassador, I give you a warning. You can't tell the parliament of the Republic of Serbia that it's a doormat. This is the worst thing ever said. If you consider yourself a messenger to be someone's messenger, 249 MPs are not. You received a warning from me only because you compare the parliament of the Republic of Serbia with the mat. Thank you. I know I did a good thing for the Serbian Parliament, even for your voters who don't think they're mats, by sending you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Aleksic has long been waiting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zukorlic, etc. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9027	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I am waiting very long because, while you were saying, Mr. Arsic abused the Rules of Procedure and did not give a line to MP Marko Đurišić, I am advertising Article 104 whom you yourself, directly mentioned by your last name, you probably remember that well, and Mr. Arsic refused to give the replica to Mr. Đurisic. So, after that, on the basis of Article 103, I don't get the right to injure the Rules of Procedure all the time to advertise what was Mr. Arsic's mistake. And in this discussion, according to this amendment, actually, where you used to attack opposition MPs because they wanted to defend independent institutions from a shameful campaign that had nothing to do with institutions, but personalities. A campaign against Sasa Jankovic is being campaigned here, led outside against Vuk Jeremic. So that's the answer to the budget that you're supposed to talk about here in this house, and you don't give the opposition MPs the right to use their rights and answers to the calls you sent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9028	Here, I'll agree with you. We'll get a stenogram. If I mentioned the name of MP Djurisic, I'll give him a replica and we'll keep talking. So we're not going to consider this injury until we get that part of the discussion. We'll give the replica and move on. I'm not able to tell if I said it or not. Ambassador Zukorlic, too, has been waiting an extremely long time for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9029	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, one system survives to the extent that it has at least relative justice. We have on the one hand the Protector of the Citizens, and on the other hand the representatives of the citizens. Protectors of citizens who have a salary of 400,000 and representatives of citizens, MPs with salaries of 65 or 80,000. So, the Guardian of Citizens is so important, the representatives of citizens are not important. I am sorry that I have to open this topic and in some way try to break this gap that is bent around the MPs with a kind of public hypocrisis that they are humiliated by such wages without being allowed to talk about it, because they will be lynched by the media, the public. I am sure that someone will tell me too – here is this inexperienced politician who before the election asks to raise salaries to the MPs. Yes, I'm asking the MPs to raise their salaries and to keep these representatives of the institutions we're talking about on the downside, so we can meet somewhere in half, because in that justice we could keep the system to the point of reality and breathe like humans, not to complain in the towers about how we work for poor wages, and we represent the people. The salary of a city council member in Novi Pazar and other municipalities in Sandzak is higher than the salary of a MP. We are talking about Serbia as a leader in the region, and we have the lowest salaries, as MPs, throughout the region. How do you plan on leading with such poor wages? So, the salary of a National MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9030	Thank you, MP. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ( b) Why the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You'll have to wait for Vukadinovic... (Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Who? (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Marijan Risticevic. Do you want to vote on article 106, MP, which I have injured? You've stated that you can only talk about the agenda point. No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. I have to delete the list first. Everyone who thinks he's hurt by the Rules of Procedure are in the system. Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, representatives of the Union of Workers in the Enlightenment of Serbia, the Union of Education of Serbia and the Grand Union of Educational Workers of Serbia "Independence" following this part of today's session. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9031	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, I am advocating Article 104 and Article 106. I respect first Article 106. - it is forbidden to interfere with MPs as they speak in any way. That's why I'm asking the service to close the door. If those who have no home education have not already done so, Madam Chairman, I am opened to the door, which MPs hold nonstop, hindering freedom of speech. That's guaranteed to me by Article 106. So I ask that the doors be closed, if the MPs who do so do not have a home education, there is a service that can make it possible. Article 104. I respect that the chairman favors the opposition, here we go again, but I've been distracted several times, several times renamed. I kept trying to get a replica, to get the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, and because of their rights, my right has not been granted. Look, physically, I don't mind favoring the opposition, but I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure, because it's the right of the chairman to determine who gets the word. In a certain way - in a healthy body is a healthy spirit. So do not prevent the opposition from reaching a healthy spirit in the morning exercises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9032	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9033	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am still under the impression of the name for the National Assembly, that it is a mat, so just to be clear, to comment that every normal MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9034	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9035	Every normal MP binds himself to the National Assembly, and what is dirty binds himself to a mat.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9036	Ambassador, I'm asking you about your amendment. Don't waste your time. So, regarding this amendment, we have submitted an amendment asking to be defined, i.e. reduce the trustee's salary for information of public importance. I don't think there's a point to the text of this amendment and there's been a lightning reaction to the public, but I find the most interesting reaction of the Commissioner himself. He said of a medium: "It is the right for MPs to propose amendments, but my salary is not regulated by the Budget Law. “ It’s okay. "However, it is obvious that SNS MPs value me, as soon as they think I should have a salary as prime minister for whom they have only words of praise. “ Should this be the answer of a trustee? I thought the foundation of this institution was political neutrality. So, what did we say to him? Between this amendment, which is absolutely clean and asks only to cut that salary, it fits like this. We prime ministers in the amendment, i.e. Mr. Parezenovic, we only mention in the context of a reduction in the prime minister's salary, and he mentions the prime minister in this context, you can all conclude in which. Then there's a lot of conferences for journalists who are more concerned with this topic than with one sentence of this budget, which is one of the proof that this budget is good, but it's still a very interesting situation. It is not difficult to conclude that there is one clear relationship at the level of the opposition, part of the opposition and Protector of citizens, trustees, in the sense that we protect your salaries, you by Wolf tweet and then we're even. Once again, I am going back to this part of the commentary, yet it is obvious that the SNS MPs appreciate me as soon as they think I should have a salary as prime minister, for which they have only words of praise. Why a comment like this? That we didn't accidentally run into a pre-election position, for a campaign for the president of Serbia, if we did, we didn't recognize you. It's nice when someone is running very early for president, I even think we know what someone is running very early for president of Serbia. For a long time, his family members, a neighbor and a friend, will talk to a fellow future president, as you are president, move to sit down to the next president, and to them nicely, they enjoy it. They live in that fairy tale until the day of their election. Some people get so caught up in that fairy tale that they give themselves the right to swear both father and mother. So every fairy tale of such people only lasts until election day. We heard everything. We heard what everyone's paying for. We heard about the salary of Jorgenka Tabaković, especially. We've heard it a thousand times, and we've never heard the pay of these trustees. Only one thing is interesting, is it the high salary of Jorgenka Tabakovic? Yes, it is. Was it high inflation in 2012 when she led the NBS? Yes, we were champions of Europe, 12.2%. Today 0.3%. They are bound by a common word - inflation. We have an anti-inflation fight with her, and we have inflation with them of strangely constructed affairs. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9037	Thank you very much. I think it's obvious that Article 106 has been broken, not just by this speaker, but by many before that. I didn't notice that the amendment that's being discussed is about the Guardian of Citizens, but for the Data Protection Officer of Interest, and that it is, I think it's a completely missed topic. First of all, we all know that the budget doesn't determine the salary of the Citizens' Protector...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9038	Ambassador, you're discussing it now. You think I hurt...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9039	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9040	It has to be only on this discussion, it has to be direct.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9041	On this one and on the one before, but for this one you are now...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9042	He's the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9043	Whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9044	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9045	He's using time to discuss an amendment for a story that has nothing to do with the amendment. The Protector of the Citizens, the Protector of Equality, the Protector of Information, has had such high wages for years, half a decade, decades. It's just someone who's very stupid or very evil can only remember now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9046	Are you saying that the promoter is stupid and evil?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9047	I don't see anyone here who's evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9048	And stupid, right? So you're saying the promoter is stupid.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9049	No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9050	Okay, just so we know you're not saying he's stupid.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9051	I just want him back on the subject, which is Serbia's budget, which is slightly more important than the election campaigns of people who came to read their essays.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9052	You've abused the Rules of Procedure. Don't yell at me all over the Rules of Procedure's breach room, I'm going to interrupt the session now. Let me run the session. I don't need anyone to help me, let alone get away from me. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. So we've been talking about amendments all along, Reverend Zivkovic. What he's saying is the same as the opposition's MPs about the work and the unhappiness of the one who needs to have a lower salary...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9053	That's no excuse for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9054	We can discuss it. If you heard from the left, you'd only talk about the amount of pay I'd punish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9055	You're not the judge in the ring, you're supposed to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9056	Thank you. You've helped me a lot. Now I'm going to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9057	Every time I have to, I'm ready to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9058	Thank you. You were there to help me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9059	Twenty years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9060	That's just fine, for the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9061	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9062	Here's Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9063	Thank you. I haven't used the Rules of Procedure often lately, but Article 107 is the first position of the National Assembly. It is often a busy and often misused member of the Rules of Procedure, but this time we have a situation that is relatively clean, even for those who follow our work on the surface. I don't get into what it's like, because every one of us has an opinion about how the institutions are working, I think they're doing well, they can always do better, but where's luck for us and the other institutions to do what these two do, but that's not a topic. We have a concrete amendment, I think it's the dignity of this house, but it's essentially hurt by it, if someone proposes amendments, and that's not the first time, for which they count ahead, and they know they won't be and they don't want to be adopted. Now I support, like some of my colleagues here, I have no problem reducing the salary of the gentleman in question, not because they have worked badly, but I really think there is a huge proportion between the salary of the president, the salary of the prime minister, the members of the government and the heads of these institutions. You should either raise the president's salary, the prime minister, without any demagogy, or even this up. So I have no problem without hypocrisy, no evil will, to support that amendment, but I am sorry and I am very sad that I feel that members of the ruling majority will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9064	Ambassador, you're already in discussion. How anyone will vote has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9065	He's got it right now. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9066	I appreciate you stealing a little time and giving it to yourself and every attempt is worth respecting, but no further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9067	I don't use that. Just please vote for your own amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9068	This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9069	There is. If an amendment is proposed which you know you will not vote or vote for yourself, it is an abuse and violation of the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9070	We've been in this assembly for over half a year, the opposition MPs are mostly making amendments, and that's just fine. They rarely come to the polls. Therefore, your thesis that whoever proposes should and vote falls into the water immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9071	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9072	Take the results of the vote and you will see that those who propose very little are coming to the vote. So that's another topic, it has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. I can't make MPs come to the vote, vote for, against, abstention. Lapcevic wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Did I remember that correctly? What member alone? Ambassador, you don't know which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9073	Article 158.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9074	Article 158, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9075	Where matter is regulated when members, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups have the right to speak for up to five minutes. I don't think you did a good job of keeping that record and not spending that time. I just wanted to simply and briefly support this amendment, and to say that you are absolutely right that such wages are inappropriate, that they should be reduced, but that they should start from the highest, from Mr. Bajatovic, and then from the Vice Governor of NBS, then from the director of flight control, and from the director of the public companies Posto, Telekom, and from Danica Draskovic. There's a...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9076	It's all right, MP, but now you've abused the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. And Ambassador Zukorlic came to complain yesterday, and I think it's just that you weren't paying attention. So three MPs who are independent MPs can do it. There's ten of you, they use time for five minutes, three of you spent it, and you're fourth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9077	It's not spent, that's what it's like. He spent Mr. Zivkovic's five minutes, I spent 40 seconds, then you don't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9078	Up to five minutes, no more calls, so let's count five minutes. You know, you've been here 20 years, I don't have a problem with you. (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: I did not. I have a problem that MPs abuse the Rules of Procedure, not the chairman. You'd like to discuss. Who else has a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Come on, Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9079	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 103, 104 and 106 members, these three members, the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, first I am an MP and the mandate is mine and I decide what amendment I will submit as well as my colleagues. We have the right to endure, imagine, the amendment. This isn't the SNS amendment. This is my personal one. I'm very jealous of him. Therefore, I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment, I hope to receive support from other colleagues. If he'll pass, I don't know, but I have the right to endure the amendment and no one from there is denying it. I ask you to respond in the future when someone wants to deny me the right to submit the amendment and to explain it further. On the other hand, I understand that someone is defending their presidential candidate, that's no problem at all, you're free to defend your presidential candidate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9080	Ambassador, this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9081	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9082	There isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9083	Let me just get this over with. If he had been so good, he would have reacted sometimes at that old time, for example, to protect the workers you've ruined in privatisation or as one of the MPs... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9084	I thank the MP, you have entered the discussion. You've entered the discussion. Ambassador, please. Article 112 sets a two-minute break so we can proceed according to the amendment. So, I just don't think there's any desire or will to talk about the amendments that we have ahead of us, and please, that's the only way I can make order. [[after breaks]] The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9086	Thank you. To get back to the amendments, I actually answered the line, but since I never get a replica, then I can't even speak because I was mentioned by MEP Djukanovic. As far as the budget itself is concerned, if we look at the budget to repeat, the Citizens' Protector has a budget of 216 million dinars, the Commissioner for Public Information of around 203 million dinars, and the minister without a portfolio of Krkobbic 225 million dinars. I think on this basis alone, it should be clear to the citizens where the money is going and how it's being wasted in the budget, and how little they get the independent institutions of the system that are actually doing their job. If it hadn't been for the Citizens' Protectors, we wouldn't have learned much about the Savamala, the Helicopter affair, and the affair over the Prime Minister's brother during the Pride Parade and many other things. If there wasn't a trustee's office and all the people working there wouldn't have been discovered, many contracts wouldn't have been received. They're really doing their job and working on transparency. The president of the assembly incorrectly told the citizens that these are amendments to the downsizing of the Simeon and the Commissioner's salaries. That's not true. These are amendments that reduce the distribution of salaries to the entire institution. So you can clearly see that from the budget. So, the distribution of salaries to the entire institution of the Protector of Citizens and the entire institution of the Trustees. With the budget, you can't change the individual salary. That's what SNS MPs know very well. For some reason, however, they have made up that this is a good election campaign. I think the price of this will pay in the election. As for bankruptcy proceedings, I am, of course, proud to have protected the interests of the trustees in them, and the credentials can confirm that. However, as far as the SNS itself is concerned, their creditors are citizens of Serbia who gave them the vote, and I will be happy to implement the SNS bankruptcy for these creditors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9087	Mr. Radulovic, your reporting base has been subject to the amendment. In part, you were involved in political calculations, and you tried to answer what was already said during the recent debate. I'm just warning you this time, and next time I'm gonna have to take that time away from you. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Will you warn SNS MPs? Always, Mr. Radulovich, you know I'm always just and just. Of course. Sure. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Come on, we'll hold you to your word. But right now, you've created at least two basics for replication. First of all, the basis for the replica has a national MP, Maja Gojkovic, which you mentioned, and the basis for the replica has also been authorised by a representative of the SNS because you mentioned the SNS. First I give my word to the MP Maja Gojkovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9088	I thank the chairman. I just want to make it clear to the public that the incorrect statement - what was the essence of my discussion. I have indeed stated the true allegations, which is that the entire budget that has been set for the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personality data is 203 million, and then we heard from Minister Vulin the exact information that out of the 203 million 80% goes to pay. So I don't know what I'm saying is false. Eighty percent of the resources planned for work go exclusively to salaries, making the Trustee 396-397 thousand and his other associates, and only 20% for some work. That's why my discussion was focused on whether the Commissioner, let's say, but this is about reducing the salary of the Commissioner and his associates, and his associates can adequately do their job, which is to give us information of public importance and protection of personality data for an appropriate salary of 130,000 dinars, if we consider, let's put politicians aside, that one surgeon without duty gets 86,000 dinars. Dot. I don't want any more part of it. The point of my discussion was just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9089	Thank you. Mr. Radulovich, are you answering the amendment? (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication, you have received answers to questions asked. In fact, you've caused a replica and only received concrete answers to... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: If I may explain by amendment. You can't explain it. You can do it by amendment, of course. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Then by amendment. Here you are, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9090	Let me say it again. What the president of the assembly said incorrectly is that these are amendments to reduce the salary of the Simeon and to reduce the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter. That's not true. What exactly the two amendments reduce the division, i.e. the proposed amendments reduce the share of salaries for all the employees of the Trustee and all the employees of the Simeon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9091	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9092	This was the right line to a replica? Thank you very much. As it is said, we're always happy to take advantage of those extra two minutes of space, and it's always a good opportunity to think of what we remember. As for the debate we are attending right now and the persistent imputation to turn away from the subject in this way, i.e. to go beyond the debate on the budget, you know how strange it is that we listen to such comments from the people we have warned about this behavior ourselves, how many, four days in a row. So we hear it from people who literally submitted amendments without any explanation. Imagine university professors who didn't put together a single sentence to write an appropriate explanation. Evidence that they submitted amendments just to talk about something that only they cared about. Now, that someone of these ranks, who neither suggests anything nor offers anything, is unable to offer any objection to the MPs who have submitted certain amendments and who want to discuss them. It's really amazing. Who are we hearing from? Of the people who not only demonstrated the problems with elementary mathematics and what was very precise, kindly indicated by the minister, whom I will take the opportunity to mention, it is always a great pleasure to listen and it is a great pity that they do not use the opportunity to learn from him those who do this kind of small things, but who insist on these mistakes, on this wrong mathematics and talk here about subsidies, disasters, perform magic tricks, while forgetting only one thing, spend time, not ours, we will endure this discussion because it is our job, spend time on Serbian citizens and their magicians' hocus-pocuss variants do not need to explain to us at all – whether subsidies and business means anything to anyone. Let him explain not to us, but to all those great people who got the job that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9093	Thank you, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9094	But one note, they're going to have to make 10,000 very important conversations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9095	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Radulovich, you now have a basis for replication. Direct address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9096	Thank you. I thank the SNS MPs who are using every opportunity to direct insults and try to disdain opposition MPs. It's obviously their manners, since the fact that they're talking can't. So it's a big sign of weakness when someone's trying to insult and demean anyone. That's what all citizens know. SNS MPs know that, but since they have nothing else, they must talk in such a way in the congregation. This isn't the first time. Every time Mr. Orlic answers the story, it's about the same. Unfortunately for him, there are video clips that show this. So we don't say things that aren't true. They're the truth, of course. You look at the clips, you look at all his presentations, and then you see that he never had anything to say, except that he's trying to teach some lessons, because others don't stick to the subject, because others don't know math, etc. Since we're colleagues, we can talk about math, because I know math very well. However, the essence of this is – we are talking about amendments. These amendments are trying to cut all employees' salaries in the 1992 office and the trustee's office. That's the essence of the amendment. The budget cannot change the salary of the Dolphin and the salary of the Trustees because they are regulated by other laws. Citizens need to know that. This is one big farce and a political puppet show in which they should be attacked for some reason, known only to the main puppeteer, the trustee and the Heroes. I think the price of this SNS behavior along with the puppeteer will be paid in the April elections, which we hear again that they will all be together. We look forward to them very, very much. To repeat, on behalf of the citizens, I will be happy to conduct a bankruptcy against the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9097	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9098	That's right. This time on the basis of personal address, but it's still not bad to notice that we now have the other basis for the party and we're going to reconsider whether or not we're going to use it. Usually there's no need. Usually there is no need because politically irrelevant people do not deserve to be devoted to them too much time. Interestingly, ladies and gentlemen, how the essence of the debate comes very quickly to video clips. By whom? By those people whose essence is any political activity to be recorded, to be mounted, to admire themselves on clips, to sponsor it on social networks. You don't run politics by collecting likes, sherls and what's-his-name. That's not how it's done. When we talk about what anyone here has to say and what they have to offer, the one who brings down his own political action to make some video clips, icons, etc. It shows that he has something, or he's not going to offer. When he says that, he only talks about himself. I don't even mention it to him, nor mention the party, but I can only, from time to time, appeal to installers to take and record the amendments proposed by these great heroes of video clips, so they can record that they themselves can't finish one sentence in the explanation of the amendment. Maybe they should brag about it. When they tell us about math, they've been throwing themselves at each other for billions of years. We saw it the other day, and we're going to see it today in the amendment debate, someone playing nice after the MP, someone throwing around billions, and here it represents some fantastic ideas. Let this one of his fantastic ideas explain, once again, not to us, but to the thousands of people who got jobs just because of the government's efforts. Let him explain to them that they don't need these jobs, that they're better off without a job. If they believe him, there's no problem, we'll all believe him. But there's something I'm afraid of, it's a dark hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9099	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Radulovic, pursuant to Article 103, close the circle of replicas and proceed according to the amendment According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. [[Saša Radulovic, from the place: First Replic.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9100	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, I have essentially come to understand very well the intention that the amendment promoter had. My friend and colleague Krsto Janjušević indeed, according to reason, had one human intention above all. A reduction in salary to the Commissioner for Public Information is directly directed to the Children's Disease Treatment Fund in Serbia. But there's one other side. Namely, my friend and colleague Krsto, whom opposition MPs just called stupid, evil, puppeteer and no other names... Imagine, a man who's a graduate industrial management engineer! And who calls him that? Those who are not, those who do not have that formal education as close as my colleague Krsto has, and he actually stands by amendment to protect and MPs of the opposition. We have long witnessed that these two institutions have turned, unfortunately, by working individuals into political institutions. All their jobs and their attitudes are political. Well, the Cross stands for protection and the Proposer stands for the protection of the opposition MPs. You are much more advocated here today to defend some political stances, for attacks on power than these two political institutions do. Your salary is 67,000 and his salary is 400,000. I think there's a lot more to pay you. Now, that's actually the essence of the amendment. The man who fights for all of you, for your greater salary, you attack him and you say he's stupid and evil. I think it's hypocritical at least. For us, you are neither stupid nor evil, nor puppet men, nor representatives of the people, and as such we respect you. To the same extent, we respect those who are the Protector of the Citizens and the Trustee, but to the extent that they perform the function, not in the part concerning political action, and not on the basis of how long they can wear the yellow duck and how long they can stand in the protests. Yes, sir, that's exactly it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9101	According to the amendment, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9102	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will say at first that I agree with this amendment and that I will vote in favour of this amendment. So, don't be prejudiced at all that I need someone to tell me whether I can vote or can't and whether I'm one of those who won't support that amendment, and we've submitted, our parliamentary group, or my colleague and colleague Crosstoe, have submitted that amendment. What do I think is the biggest problem? The biggest problem is that we all went into discussion about some people who perform certain functions. I don't care who's in what position. Serbia is in trouble. Serbia is in reform. How can we help Serbia? Well, each of us, every citizen has to make at least the slightest contribution in order to get Serbia out of this pain that she's found herself in. Now what's it worth to me to say, or to one of my colleagues, that what happened to Serbia is some former government? It's not worth anything, but we all have to do something together to make Serbia better. How are we gonna do that? I think each of us should bear a burden, depending on what means he has. Those who have higher wages need greater separations to give. Those with the lowest, minimum salaries, in my opinion, those people should be left out of any sanctions, i.e. withdrawal of salaries. Is it easy to do that? Of course it's not easy. You all think Alexander Vucic, the Prime Minister is some, I don't know what, a wizard who has a magic wand, so now he's gonna joke, joke and solve everything. Oh, it can't be like that. Alexander Vukic, if he had this magic wand, would have probably sprayed some experts with him first and then sent them to Palma's museum of wax figures, if the citizens of Serbia could see who brought them into this situation where they live today. So I think we need to be correct and to be honest -- some jobs, some people in those jobs are overpaid. You will say with right – it is not a matter of this amendment and it cannot be solved in that way. I agree, but who's to say that I, as an amendment promoter, need to know all this? Well, it's mine as an MP to point to something. Why would Marian Risticevic be so smart to know that? I don't think he knows that. It's not his profession and he doesn't know. There's a lawyer here who'll help us, when we agree, change a lot of things. As for these ads for the presidential elections, etc., keep in mind the folk – the singer who works the corn, usually ends up in a pot. So don't... (Radoslav Milojic, from town: Toma. () As far as Tom is concerned, I have no idea if he's running for office, good luck to him. If any of you run, so be his luck. And who shall vote for whom, each of us shall have that right. I hope that we will be introduced into some normal flows and that we will be seriously working on voting, or discussions on this budget. Don't mention names. It doesn't matter. There's one in that place today, one in the other tomorrow. What does that mean? Well, we're not fighting for the name, we're fighting for some principle, so that every place is rewarded as much as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9103	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, you are mentioned directly through Mr. Stojmirović's presentation and you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9104	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just so these gymnasts get out. Please don't disturb me, but the service picks up those cards and closes the door. It is true that I voted twice against the report, or against the conclusions of the report, both the Commissioner and the Protector. Why? When the trustee becomes a conspirator and a protector, and they become obviously the subject of a political dispute between political parties, there is no "p" from the creditors, there is no "z" from the protectors. Here, you see how I'm distracted by that Pink Panther, and I can't talk when someone's standing there like a tomato. That was why I voted against the report, because human rights defenders can't be, and they should be independent human rights lawyers who stood out in their business defending human rights. The other thing, they weren't completely independent. One was an official in Milosevic's government, and the other was the state administration minister in front of one party. He was the vice president of the assembly, he was an MP, he was a member of three breaks. How can someone be independent, perform the function of the Trustee or the Protector, if he's been to all these functions? There is no "n" of independence either. It's not just a matter of pay, but I don't think human rights can be defended by the amount of money, it has to be the reputations of lawyers, and that's why I'm going to vote for this amendment. So, prominent lawyers who will show their skills by not the amount of pay, not the amount of money, but the amount of commitment to human rights that they should fight for, not the 100,000 euros they received from the British embassy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9105	Thank you. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9106	Thank you, Chairman. Article 104 has been injured. If this is how we're going to play ping-pong between MPs' groups, the opposition might, for example, do it. That I mention someone from the D.S. or D.V.A. Group or anyone else and then you give them the right to the line. So we really shouldn't put that kind of practice in place here and set up a word for each other in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9107	Rule 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia makes it very clear that the chairman decides on the right to reply. This is about two MPs belonging to different parliamentary groups. Mr. Stojmirovic said that Mr. Marijan Risticevic does not understand, and he has tried through answers and through replica to show that he understands and sees the topic we are talking about today. First of all, I have to ask you, Mr Radulovic - do you want the People's Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Of course, Mr. Chairman. I thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9108	Thank you, Chairman. I will also use the time of the LSV parliamentary group. I must start by saying that it is absolutely amazing for us to propose this amendment, and everyone who supports it has no awareness of what the institutions of the trustee actually serve and in the previous case of the Protector of Citizens. If something is certain, it is that their work is actually used to save the budget, if we are to talk about economic parameters, that is to say, that the citizens of which the state has sinned and the state authorities are not in a situation to sue the state, but that the interventions of the protectors and trustees warn this lawsuit and that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is, in that sense, saving and reducing. I will remind you specifically of something we have already heard, and that the budget for the Guardian is 216 million, the budget for the trustee 203 million, and the budget that is individually foreseen in all the budgets of direct users, and in total, counting on all the penalty and court rulings, that is, on the basis of the judgments, is 20 billion dinars in this budget. Therefore, LSV is the only one who has submitted amendments to increase trustees and protectors' budgets by 30 million, not pay, but budgets, so that these institutions can be further qualified and, in fact, to help the budget reduce the costs of citizens' court proceedings against state authorities, this is primarily very important. Or I could say this -- 216 million for the Protector of Citizens, 203 million for the trustee, and for the government's plane service 270 million, it's completely inappropriate. What, of course, I want to add in the end, which is totally scandalous, is the personalization of the name and last name of the persons who are currently performing the function of the Citizens' Protector and putting into the context of the presidential campaign by the positional majority and the creation of the atmosphere is particularly fueled by the present Minister Alexander Vulin, who has been most actively participating since this morning in this debate. I will remind myself that a very similar atmosphere was ahead of the 2000 presidential elections, when the head of his party at the time very actively participated, Mirjana Markovic, in creating an atmosphere that led to Ivan Stambolic getting shot in the body.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9109	I'm asking you to go back to the amendment after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9110	I'm asking you not to, the chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9111	I allow you to talk about the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9112	... Furthermore, more of this discussion and not putting all of us MPs in a position to feel that we are complicit in creating such an atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9113	The basis for the replica, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9114	The ground floor and the disgusting insult of the lady is not something that can be expressed in words. I'm very sorry you didn't say this elsewhere so I could sue you, so let's talk, but the authority of this pay phone protects you, and accordingly, if the citizens of Serbia know, I won't be able to get satisfaction in court, but I'll try to get it here. It is very interesting that you are so easy to determine, as you said, the atmosphere for the murder of Ivan Stambolic, in which I suppose I participated. That's very kind of you. I'm sorry you don't know, or you don't want to know that the only man who created the atmosphere for murder and announced such things is your boss. Is that the one who hung Milosevic like a pig for the ears on the terraces? Is it your boss or my boss beating people up in bars? Is it me or your drunk boss driving snowmobiles around the New Sad pedestrian zone? Did I, perhaps, or did your boss break RTS tables in Novi Sad, spit on your mother and curse Belgrade's mother? Wasn't that the atmosphere? At the time of your boss's government, people were killed on the streets of Belgrade and people were killed because they thought otherwise. So is that what prepares the atmosphere for a different political speech? So, it's pathetic, it's pathetic that you tried to use an argumentary debate where I was protecting institutions, and you're protecting faces, I'm fighting for the position of the institution, and you're fighting for the position of your political points. Let me tell you one more thing, as someone who's longer in politics and more politically experienced than you are, don't be surprised when one day you have to lick what you spit because your boss did it very, very often, supporting every authority she spit on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9115	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9116	The Honorable Chairman, Article 109. The Rules of Procedure speak when a warning is made and it is spoken of and today the chairman has said a reminder of the word “spoiler, ” and now he uses swearing and offensive expressions that someone is poor and poor. I think that's just enough ground to get the minister, who here now continues to break the Rules of Procedure and throws something at the speaker, simply because you can't fine him, toss him out of the O.R., so that we can continue this assembly debate in a normal way. So, the insults the minister was now making are completely inappropriate. I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure. "Poor" and "poor", these may be the terms he uses in political life and can freely continue to use them and because he uses them has a reputation for the people as well as the results in the elections as he has, but here in the Assembly there must be order, this Rules of Procedure must be respected, and he says that warnings must be given for the use of such expressions and words. Unfortunately, since you cannot apply this Rules of Procedure directly in terms of warnings and fines, I ask you to remove him from the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9117	Mr. Djurisic, first of all, is it up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: If you don't explain anything to me – yes. Yes, you do. It is very interesting that you noticed the difficult qualifications that he said, allegedly, Minister Vulin, and you did not notice the difficult qualifications – that someone was preparing the murder, which was mentioned by a colleague before Mr Vulin was exposed. I'll agree in one with you, given that we're too far away from the topic, we'll now take a five-minute break in accordance with Article 112, to continue to work on the amendments afterwards. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9119	I thank the chairman. I'll talk about the amendment, I won't talk about creating any atmosphere, as Minister Vulin said. As for my proposal for an amendment, I have suggested that the current budget reserve be removed in favour of the Ministry of Health and in favour of the Ministry of the Interior. So, first of all, you've made one conversion here. Instead of talking today about the Budget System Act first, where you predict raising the budget reserve from 2.5% to 4%, we are talking about the budget first today. After that, another 400 million of you have raised the budget for the current budget reserve, and you have reduced the Assembly. And from the current budget reserve, funds are spent non-transparently and as decided by the finance minister, or prime minister, according to his personal opinion. I want to transfer some of the 400m funds to the Ministry of Health for the treatment of severe diseases and rare diseases for which I do not have conditions here in Serbia, so that citizens do not continue via SMS messages and in various other ways manage to pay for treatment abroad. Second, the equipment and emergency sector MUP. When the floods were, people didn't have boats or engines, but also equipment for the entire MUP, because today the municipality's gentlemen are buying tires to the police, giving papers today at the MUP, in police stations, even in Old Town, they're knocking on the "Olympi" typewriter because there's no money for toners. Cops don't have any resources for normal work, and you're here to waste money and transfer money where it suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9120	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9121	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were all witnesses when the SNS reduced the inflow of funds to local self-governments and those funds that are directly and most secure for local self-government, which are income tax funds. You cut that tax from 80% to 74% and thus reduced local self-government by 4.6 billion dinars. I have submitted an amendment aimed at increasing funds to local self-government. These funds exist in the budget reserve, and we have received the answer that the funds do not exist and that the budget reserve cannot be reduced. There are 400 million dinars now in the budget reserve since the SNS submitted an amendment to cut resources to the National Assembly. The Serbian Progressive Party was on the Administrative Committee, where only they discussed and no one else had the right to get the word, decided on what the Assembly's budget should be, and then the same SNS cut the budget by 400 million. Why aren't these funds given to local self-government? Citizens are exercising their first-row rights in local self-government. Citizens come to local self-government as a service. That service's supposed to work. We need to help. All mouths are full of decentralisation, but there's no money for local self-government. The funds exist and I can transfer to local self-government, we're looking for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9122	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9123	Chairman, I will use time for both the amendment and the Parliament Group after that. First of all, I want to say a few sentences about the atmosphere in this House. Take care of what is happening in parliament, we will need this Parliament very soon. It solves the serious political problems we face, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is inadmissible, Mr. Vulin, that, Comrade Vulin, you should address the MPs in such a way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9124	I don't think that's the basis for your call.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9125	I know, but you interrupted the debate when someone insulted the MP, and you didn't warn...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9126	Mr. Jesic, and you're trying, we can't have double arches and I'm asking you to return to the amendment that you submitted to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9127	I've just moved on to the amendment, but I have to say that you took a break before that. As for the amendment, first you receive my apology, yesterday you chaired when you gave me your word, I confused the amendments, so you accept the apology. We debated a few weeks ago on behalf of the reduction of transfer funds intended for local self-governments, and this amendment is completely natural, the MP group DS which was against amending and supplementing the Law today, that is, these days, to submit such an amendment. I wouldn't worry about why it's not good for you to cut funds to local self-government units like it's not good to cut salaries to health workers, educators, police and military, but I'll deal with what was the debate yesterday, which is where we want to take those funds to redistribute to local self-governments. These are direct donations that the Government has towards the so-called foreign investors and absolutely we have nothing against it. I was part of the team that wrote that law in 2006, only it was a dramatically different situation. The incentive initiative was made by the pressures of competitive countries that were then either in the EU or on the way to the EU, to attract investors. She was referring exclusively to greenfield investments. Minister Nedimovic, the minister of Knezevic who is not in the O.R., knows that well. That you were then given incentives that were a maximum of 10,000 euros, a minimum of 2,000 euros per job, for labour-extensed and unskilled labour, and it was a loan, because these investors, through greenfield, through the purchase of land, built, through VAT, were returning these funds to the budget very quickly. We have a situation today that is completely insane. You criticized SIEPA, so you shut down the SIEPA that had such a transparent approach. She had competitions, public adverts, and made public announcements to whom she gave the funds. We've taken over the policy that the discretionary rights of government members you can give to anyone you want an investment, and what's even uglier and worse for this country, we've allowed and we've forced, I may have self-initiatedly taken over the right, but we've forced him to be a commercial passenger for this country. That's not done unless it's important for big investors, unless it's Mercedes, unless it's Microsoft, Tisen Group or some big company. We have a situation that the prime minister is going around the white world, instead of working with government agencies, the Ministry of Business and mayors and the Chamber of Commerce, he's going, and he's negotiating with investors. You have no idea how bad that message is and how much it shows we don't have the institutions of this country. In a non-transparent way, the MP pointed out during the first day of the meeting of the Assembly when we pointed out that you had a certain "Endava" firm, and Mark Đurisic had responded completely inappropriately to this exact statement, beginning to insult Mark Đurisic and the representatives of the opposition, instead of apologizing to parliament and saying – I apologized, I missed, there was Minister Knezevic, he will explain, it is not normal for you to know every position in the budget. It happened because we have a non-transparent procedure, a completely non-transparent procedure, and I absolutely disagree with you there, and that's why we're asking that this money be eliminated into other positions. In the end, we need to analyse the effects. It's not normal to give 27,000 euros per job. They wouldn't give it to Mercedes, not some triangulation. Although it's important to open every job, we need to know what our priorities are. I think our first priority is education and our first priority is health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9128	Thank you. Minister Vulin, you want a replica, since you're directly mentioned? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9129	The only thing that is inadmissible, and it is unacceptable to use this high home to make such ground-floor lies and untrues, and therefore to insult them. I lied to the truth. I have answered the lie about myself with truth to those who tell lies about me. And you'll let me, I think the Guardian of the Citizens would allow me to be my human right to defend my dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9130	Thank you. Following the amendment, as a proposing representative, Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9131	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's good when we talk about the most important thing in this house, it's about employment, and I think it's good to take every opportunity to remind ourselves of the statistical figures that exist and why employment is important, and why it's important to use the measures available under the rules, based on the Investment Law. What you should know, given that you participated in this business, perhaps to say yourself that you participated in the creation of some legal frameworks, there is a transparent procedure for foreign investors today. I think it is very important that all actors on the political scene, starting with the Prime Minister, participate in this. I'll remind you of one thing I told you a long time ago. It was an American company that had an idea to invest in Serbia's space, and our competition was Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary. Then, ahead of the Macedonian government in 2011, the economy minister went directly to negotiate, and unfortunately, I had to go then as mayor alone. Imagine such a situation when you do not have that kind of political support, but those investments have come to Serbia. It is important to use all the instruments that positive legislation gives you. The procedure is clearly laid down, under the Investment Law, there is a regulation that defines such behaviour and how it applies to investors, and the advice that exists within the framework of all these positive legal rules makes a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very important that we keep this as one of the support mechanisms for investors, not for money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9132	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9133	Yes, it's very important that we have one of the instruments. The first instrument is the rule of law and economic environment. The moment you wait in your catastrus, the Indji Catastre or Ruma three, four months to complete your enrollment, mortgage or land conversion, then we have a problem. That's what the Prime Minister said here, and I support it. They are not direct donation instruments, and we have escalated from 2,000 to jobs, which were allocated in 2006 to 27 000 euros per job. That's not normal. For the labour-extensive industry, it's not normal. And then it was an idea, and then it was a land sale. You were selling land, we were selling land. Today we give land for free. In Mitrovica, 99% of local self-government. When you return, buy the land, return the VAT. That's one thing. The second thing, the 27 000 euros can be invested in what is much more important at this point, to try to invest in the education that is in our catastrophic situation. The other day I spoke to the director of one of the biggest companies that operates here and he told me – we will not continue the second phase, we have a problem with HR and human resources. It's about Grundfos. There's a problem with highly educated personnel because we don't have enough and we don't have enough quality. It's smarter to invest that money right now than to give 27 grand for jobs if we don't have the money, for which it's work-extensive and that won't bring any extra value that's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9134	Thank you. Replication rights, proposed by Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9135	Just for a little while, first of all, for the truth. The other day I watched an analysis related to investors in general those figures that are mentioned, that is to say 20,000 euros, that is not true, four thousand and 600 or 700 euros is the average giving for work-extensive activities, about what you were talking about. The other day I watched the analysis for 2015 and what was given in 2016. What's very important to say is that in addition to work-extensive activities, we need this second sector, which you were just talking about. But you have to look at Serbia as a whole, not individual cases. I agree absolutely that we need the workforce and I know about this problem with the HRs and there is a completely difficult situation and there is a colleague named Sarcevic who can do much, especially through this affirmation of the concept of dual education and in general co-operation with higher education institutions. But what you need to know isn't in every local self-government investor. There must still be. What you're talking about is the next phase, it's the next stage in attracting investors. We must all, the whole state, go through this first phase, not on the basis of individual cases to generalize things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9136	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. The time remaining for your parliamentary group is one minute and nine seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9137	That's enough. Thank you, Chairman. Since you denied me the right to reply in the next round, thank you for respecting this request to speak by amendment. And the debate under this amendment, counterpart Goran Jesic, began with Minister Vulin, and then the next minister used the word true several times. I recorded three times in a few sentences that they were referring to the truth. I have to say that the only truth is that if he had listened to Nenad Chanka, the lustration would have been carried out and Vulin would never have made decisions on our behalf again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9138	Mrs Tepic, you have been told to speak by amendment to article 8 submitted by MP Goran Jesic. What you're talking about has absolutely no touch points. I'm asking you not to abuse it in the future. You challenged the replica and the right to the replica at this point has Alexander Vulin, because you directly mentioned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9139	Well, the truth is, yes, it is true that you are in pain of truth and the truth is that here you have even managed to abuse now and the right that has given you the chairman. And the truth is that until the end, what Nenad Canak suggested would be the shooting, but, well, the truth is that it didn't happen, so unfortunately, the people decided that he was in deep opposition and that we were in power. So much for what the people saw as the truth, as is true, that you felt that the greatest achievement of your democracy was the first burning of this assembly, the beating of Milanovic, and then we should have been banned from participating in the elections. The only way to be in power would be if there was no choice. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9140	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9141	Thank you, Chairman. I draw attention to the fact that you have injured Article 104 of this Rules of Procedure and I ask you to follow all the rules on which you insist that we respect them equally, and absolutely do not pay attention when guests in the National Assembly, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and ministers speak offensively about MPs, the heads of Parliament groups and all those who represent citizens here. I'm absolutely not going to look back on the minister's jiberical dictionary. It is beneath my honor and I do not want to participate in this kind of discourse, but I ask you to intervene and respect all of us MPs equally, especially the guests, to draw attention to what is the limit of behaviour towards the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9142	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) (Nenad Canak, from town: Replica. I'm mentioned. Mr. Chanak, you'll be entitled to a replica, but please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see for yourself that in this assembly the word truth is used as a daily-political lie. That's exactly why the story of the shooting, Mr. Vulin, which you've brought out is a pure unpainted lie and I'm asking for it to be determined. I've never advocated violence in my life, and I've always been exposed to the violence that you and your accomplices have organized against people in the 1990s. That's why, if there was a lustration, you wouldn't be in a position to continue with this mode of function. What happened was the acquisition of unfortunate historical circumstances which I hope will soon cease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9144	The word has Minister Alexander Vulin, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9145	You see, here you have two understandings of politics. One by which everything is permitted, one by which elections are not necessary, by which the position of government, opposition or any position, and even survival in society is solved by political will, lustration, banning people from politics. One that can charge you with anything in this way. I will remind you that there is not one single case proven in court or initiated in court that I have committed any violence, and for some MPs here it would also be possible to discuss court proceedings, as well as statements that speak of hanging on eardrums, like pigs. So in this House, I have the utmost respect for each of you MPs. You, whether you are a government or an opposition, have come here by the will of the people, but you will not be brought in or brought out of power by lustration and you will not be brought in or carried out by authority by violence and burning down this assembly. Those times are gone forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9146	The word is made by MP Goran Jesic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9147	Article 106 and Article 107. Please, Chairman, may you distract Minister Voulin to stick to the subject. He challenged the debate here by beginning to insult the letter, and to remind you, Mr. Vulin or Comrade Vulin, you were part of the majority when former President Ivan Stambolic was killed. You have... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9148	Please, use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to enter the dialogue and to discuss with Minister Vulin and I cannot allow you to do so. I repeat, you're trying to look twice at the whole situation. You're trying to have double arches when it comes to position and when it comes to opposition. This debate was not launched by Minister Alexander Vulin, as Minister Alexander Vulin at the moment, regardless of what he has reported and what is in the system, has no right to replicate, because you have reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is impossible to give a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Can I finish? ) You cannot end for one simple reason, because you are using a breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate and to conduct dialogue with Minister Vulin, and we are continuing according to the amendments. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9149	Thank you. This is Article 8 now. I also submitted the amendment to Article 1 practically to show how it is possible for pensioners to get their money back and take it off of unnecessary spending, which is mainly subsidies and waste of money in public enterprises. Practically, the amendment abolishes large subsidies, including those 11 billion dinars that go to the Fiat, which go to all these companies that we subsidize, which then, on the other hand, create cheap jobs in Serbia. It's unnecessary spending and, practically, pensioners, who took 20 billion dinars, pay that part of the bill. Budget is the Superhik budget, like that guy from Alan Ford's comic book. Superhik takes the poor to give the rich, so he takes this budget to citizens, pensioners, public sector employees, and gives foreign investors and the party parasitic system, or party personnel. So, the change here also introduces what we already had in the 2014 budget, which I suggested as a minister, which the Assembly adopted, and then they threw out of the budget, after I resigned, which is the founding of the Guarantee Fund. Through this Guarantee Fund, we can lower the guarantee rates for all companies in Serbia, regardless of whether they are owned by foreign investors or whether they are domestic citizens and legal persons. It also envisions the allocation of funds to launch a "capital fund" "venture" in Serbia. These are the funds that encourage innovation and a practical proposal, as was adopted in 2014 in the budget, after the change. It is not proposed that the state invests directly, but rather helps to create a private "capital fund" that would then invest further. This is much better than giving subsidies to individual companies such as "Endava". So, make a system and that system can give us results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9150	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9151	The amendment is very long and I don't have time in two minutes to state all the technical reasons why it's unacceptable. I only state one reason, which is that the proposed sums in the redistribution and the allocation of funds disagree with two billion. Secondly, as it has been pointed out at all in the debate, the amendment suggests that the state does not fulfil the guarantee obligations, which would result in inconclusive consequences on the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia. No credit fund could fix that, it would lead to a "cross of difolt", which would practically push Serbia into the situation if it had no access to any funding source. I thought it was known to everyone in this country, and I can see it's not. Thirdly, this amendment would jeopardise the functioning, i.e. direct interference in the jurisdiction of other bodies, i.e. ministries and funds, or the competences defined by the Investment Act. Therefore, he not only directly changes, without deep or better explanations, the location of the funds, but directly interferes in jurisdiction. Otherwise, the basic idea of managing subsidies and any use of funds better, I accept. There's no dilemma, but this way you can't do it. Technically, it's not right, and the way to break our obligations and our credit rating is certainly not the way to do it. Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9152	You are not mentioned in the negative context, Mr. Radulovic, you can get the word after the amendment. You have time. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I have to explain. Something's been said... You can explain, but during the time that belongs... (Saša Radulovic, from place: Article 104) clearly states when something is said that does not paint... ) Article 3 says that the chairman decides whether you have a basis for replication or not. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Not so. ) I don't think you have and you'll get a word, if you want, after Mr. Arsic, because you have time as head of Parliament. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. [[Saša Radulovic, from the post: I have the right to reply first.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what this amendment is about. This is the continuation of a policy that has been going on for several years. For example, this amendment does not require the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. Let's just say, that's not supposed to be done. For example, the finance ministry, the land expropriation in order to build capital facilities, the economic classification of 541 land, means that no highways are made, no bridges being made, no tunnels being made. This is the subject of this amendment, and when I read the explanation of the Minister, the applicant of the amendment, it is said – this amendment removes the subsidies of the economy and introduces credit support with the obligation to repay the loan instead of the subsidy. Be careful what it's like when someone reads those lines. However, I would have gone back a little bit more to the past, about the reasons for this amendment's efforts. It was some law, which was addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Bank Act, so the Representative of the Government in the Assembly was designated as the eh bankruptcy manager, the Minister of Business, and by that law, beware, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers is abolished, and this law introduces the Chamber, which is a professional association where all bankruptcy managers are joined. Under that same bill, the Chamber conducts the following tasks, as trusted – a decision to enrol in the directory of bankruptcy managers, offices of bankruptcy managers, assistants of bankruptcy managers, management of the directory, etc. The supervision of the work of the Chamber in the part of entrusted transactions shall be carried out by the e.g. bankruptcy manager responsible for business affairs. Well, then, in Article 34, the ministry, or the eh bankruptcy manager, gives consent to the statutes and the second general act of the Chamber in the work of entrusted affairs. Let's move on, President of the Chamber represents and represents the Chamber, that's Mr Dobrivoje Petrovic. You heard the Prime Minister, that Mr. eh Minister, now the MP and the bankruptcy manager, he didn't spend an hour and a half at work, and you know why? Because this law was written by Dobrivoje Pavlovic with him, in what is the name of the Alliance of Banks of Serbia, did I say well? I think so. President of the Chamber, or Dobrivoj Pavlovic, is elected for three years and can be re-elected once, quite enough. The supervision of the work of the bankruptcy directors is carried out by the Chamber. And not to mention everything that's written in that amendment and the addition of the law. What is this about, and why is such a policy the minister, the bankruptcy and the MP involved? You remember that story about the company's ID cards that are being restructured. Their property must be established, what is theirs, what is theirs, what is theirs, what is theirs, what are theirs, what are their claims, what are their debts. Do such a thing, and then the minister, or if the bankruptcy manager, does not give consent to any UPPR, and in the meantime, such a law has been passed. Do you know what that means? He knows well that the one who wrote that they should return, that the enterprises in the restructuring should raise loans, knows well that they have no credit and that they can't raise any credit. He knows well that if they don't get consent from the UPPR, what happens next? You're out of A bankruptcy that will be run by an echo bankruptcy manager in the image of Minister and Dobrivoja Pavlovic, in the image of the President of the Chamber of Banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9154	Mr. Arsic, let's just get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9155	I'm getting in touch, and I was just quoting the explanation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9156	But you've gone a little too far, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9157	If the amendment that was proposed and continued, and if it had been accepted, and if the plan of Mr. eh minister, and the bankruptcy director and the MP had been brought to life, we would have had the bankruptcy of RTB Bor, we would have the bankruptcy of Sartide if we hadn't privatised him, we would have the bankruptcy of Petrochemis, we would have the bankruptcy of "Azotare", "The First Five-years", IMT, IMR, and all the other enterprises that are in restructuring. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of dealing with the policy of the Minister, otherwise the bankruptcy manager, is that all these companies go bankrupt, to keep a few hundred thousand people out of work directly, 150 thousand more indirectly, because the award is a 20 percent bankruptcy director, it's public. There are others who are not public. As for Mr. Dobrivoj Pavlovic, who is supposed to lead the Chamber, he has already been punished by 800,000 dinars from that same agency, which only tells us what fate has threatened us to see what kind of man we are dealing with. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9158	Mr. Radulovic, first of all a notice, we will proceed with the work of course. You have received the resignation of MP Velimir Stanojevic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and Article 4 thereof. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time it was elected, ended, to MP Velimir Stanojevic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Mr. Radulovic, you can see that I am very concerned about the application of Article 104(3), you are mentioned as an echo minister and applicant for the amendment, MP, and in this case I will give you my word. You have the right to a replica. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9159	Thank you. There's been a series of lies about what I did as a minister. Of course, we wrote the law ourselves. This Agency for the Licensing of Banks is a corrupt state agency, through which party people, at the top of political parties, influence bankruptcy procedures and practically cheat on creditors, employees and I fought against it. Otherwise, there is a Chamber of Lawyers in Serbia, the Chamber of Executives, so of course there should be a Chamber of Banks, which is their body and which takes care of the profession, and the state authorities, of course, oversee, above all, the Ministry of Economy. So it's a whole series of lies. What is very important in this bankruptcy law, which I have proposed, which Mr. Arsic was not allowed to mention, which is one member that says that we put all the back-up earnings in the first payment order, not paid to workers for all the years of work, and that we have also put together a working internship for all employees, for all years in advance, so that the law has passed. He passed the government, was eventually withdrawn from the Assembly, all employees who had failed to earn their earnings and had no associated employment, would have been associated with their employment. That's the clean bill policy we stood for. If it had been over, Serbian citizens would have seen it all together and that's what stopped Aleksandar Vukic. We'll put these things back on the agenda when we win the next election. By the way, as far as all these bankruptcy stories are concerned, I'm proud of everything I've done in bankruptcy proceedings, where I've represented the interests of trustees, employees, and I haven't let the thieves rob. They mainly came across political lines that tried to take the creditors what was left after the irresponsible owners brought the companies into bankruptcy. In the end, I would be pleased to be on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, as trustees, the bankruptcy manager of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9160	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. First of all, the right to the replica of the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, direct address and mentioning the name and name of Mr Arsic, MP of the people Veroljub Arsic. Then the right to replication, the mention of SNS president, also has SNS deputy head Vladimir Orlic. The word first has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9161	That is the difference between us and the SNS and the Minister's eh, now the MP and the bankruptcy manager. The difference is that we wanted to, and we're working today to get all possible enterprises out of bankruptcy, and you wanted to throw them into bankruptcy. You wanted these people to lose their jobs. Why? There's no concern for workers, they'll get something and they'll get, it's a commission and she's public and she's a secret, 20% that gets a acquired manager, as a reward. Well, how much is that? Look, it's tens of billions, hundreds of billions of dinars, over two, three billion euros. That's what Mr. Radulovic wanted to put into bankruptcy with this law. That's funny to you. I don't. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: How you lie. ) You just said it yourself, I took care of the workers of the RTV Bor, by putting them into bankruptcy. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I didn't say that. That's what you just said, nothing else, "Sartid" and they'd put it in bankruptcy, there are parasites, party, partocracies. Well, go ahead and say it in the campaign. To see how you go. Feel free to go to Petrochem and “Azotar” and tell them that they are part of the "First Five-year-old" in Tristenik. Go ahead. You're talking about public enterprises, what public enterprises? This is about the real sector that this government is fighting for to preserve. You wanted a certain Dobrivoj Pavlovic to discuss all this as a bankruptcy and to sell a piece by piece, as is done, a piece by piece to chop up property to sell it. That's what this is about. So that's why your law is withdrawn, and that's why the law isn't good. Well, he can't, what chamber?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9162	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The right to a replica first of all is MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9163	Thank you, in case anyone missed, it was the mention of the party president and again a very nice opportunity to remind ourselves of some things. I listened carefully to that explanation, or maybe it's better to call it an attempt to explain something here. There were again some political lines, some terrible partocracy, but a well-known repertoire from the political speeches of one who should be dealing with a little bit of his proposal. But given what kind of proposal it is, it's better than not. Once again, a bunch of cobwebs on a bunch of thesis piled up, did anyone here ever hear of the existence of some political lines, the presence of a partocrat, how much is there, when someone takes it out of their sleeves, says 100,000, 200 grand, it might grow to 300, some party personnel. How did he count them, whose are they, what are they? It's just a story, a story, and nothing but that. Because how else could I understand that, for example? Some society that falsely presents itself as a movement, fights a terrible partocrat, so what does it want to become? Party, right? That's how he fights partocracies, probably. What someone did while, unfortunately, and indeed is an unfortunate circumstance, was in the position of a minister once, and for associations I don't answer, whoever it is, and I know who I mean. The biggest problem is that he didn't want to obviously do his job, but he just wanted to start with politics, personal promotion, launch himself. As successful as he is, we'll see, even more precisely, but let me explain, for example. The people of "The Iron" will have to do, so at least one 5,000 talks on why his plan was better for them to end up on the street than their plan to keep their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9164	Injured by the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9165	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 106 of Section 3 and Article 108. They are very clear and loud here in the hall hearing the insults of the guy – you are lying, yelling because you are lying, by Mr. Radulovic, sent to Mr. Arsic during his speech. You are obliged not only to allow the speaker not to speak unhinderedly during the time you have granted him as chairman, but you are obliged to allow us to listen to the speaker, not to listen to insults on the account of the speaker, but also to this home itself. I'm not asking us to declare this in voting day, but I'm asking you to keep this in mind, because more and more often in this way, insults that we are not obliged to endure in the congregation, in no way at all, are offensive to this whole house and increasingly and increasingly loudly heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9166	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. It is difficult to follow every speaker, but I also count on speakers to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you, as MPs, are here to point out. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9167	Thank you. Let me repeat what the Ministry's plan was, since it's clearly trying to twist it, in 2014. So, of course, the idea wasn't that whoever was driving them out into the street and of course the idea was to protect the workers, to protect the company, and that's how it's done everywhere in the world, to make that I.D., to make a clear list of assets, to do the value of that property, means to estimate the value. A market analysis is being made, a business plan is being done, along with the financial plan and the systematization of jobs. Then, after that, when you have a turn, when you know what your property is, you know what your obligations are, then you make a restructuring plan. That was exactly what we were about to do, but it was a huge resistance to a partocrat. So, not the workers who recognized what the ministry was doing as a good thing, who supported what the ministry was doing, but the party's personnel who were on top of all these companies and Petrochemia, and "Gelezzare" and all those companies that had practically destroyed these companies for years. Let's just think of this wonderful management that was set up in "The Irons" that has lost around 270m euros in the last two years. Both in Petrochem and in all other companies where the state never had the courage and in fact knowledge to establish order. So, the ministry's job was to stop these companies from going bankrupt, to fall apart, rather than put in order and make those plans. Since no one was able to do that, then we started by firing all these party personnel. The story of how they are gone, that all Serbian citizens know, without a party connection, you can't come to the top anywhere, run anything, that's why Serbia is falling apart. That's why kids run out of the country, because there's no chance in the country. This is what destroys Serbia, this partocrat that eats us and we'll take it off the back of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9168	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9169	If so, then the ministry has written amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, I said, no single UPPR has signed for a restructuring company. Will someone tell me that the Tiger, the non-automographic part, was working badly back then? The workers received salaries and cut debts. Why didn't he sign the UPPR? He wanted to put them in bankruptcy. What is the problem with the "Tranal", and before the UPPR began recovery and restructuring and reduced debts. Why didn't they sign UPPR? Why didn't he sign those UPPRs if he wanted to keep them? No, he wanted them in bankruptcy. The whole purpose of politics is for this law to come to life. Why would he need IDs? So all his preparations, that partocrat, the entire property, were declared bankrupt. You know how long it ends then? In 60 days. All set. And the extremity manager in the image of the minister challenges and does not control the Chamber. That's why I said - three years was enough, Serbia was no longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9170	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Not mentioned, based on what? So Arsic hurt the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9171	Thank you. Member of the 107th Insulting of this House's dignity, Mr. Milicevic. You had to react because you can't deceive and lie to the public like this anymore. It is indeed an insult to both parliament and the entire public. No one can talk about the party that half his future party hired in state authorities, from the Anti-Corruption Council to its ministry. (Sasa Radulovic, from the post: Is this within the framework of the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) Not to speak when he was a bankruptcy manager, in 19 companies where he was a recordman, where he was a bankruptcy manager, he was almost in everyone giving jobs to his wife, his wife’s firm. And that's luck, and our judiciary is bad for one reason only, because this man is free and he's not in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9172	Mr. Djukanovic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I didn't have that information, but I repeat, that's why the MPs are here to point it out. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9173	Chairman, in the framework of the Rules of Procedure's breach, you have allowed a replica. Let me repeat as far as these two companies are concerned. Of course, these companies were asked to make a list of companies, to assess the value of the assets, and then when they did, they put together this party UPPR that should say this - the state to give up everything, the workers to get nothing, and they to get a new opportunity to spend the money of the citizens, so we gave it back to them, and it was only one UPPR and the other to try, so that one UPPR that came back and showed up - change these things, not the state to give up its work, not the workers to lose their wages, but to make UPPR for all employees to be left behind, and all of them to be associated with the employment and the state if it gives some money, or if it should support that UPPR, and its claims, as well as any other claims must be recognised within that UPPR. They're going to keep doing it. They saw it hard in the ministry because we didn't allow it to be thrown away with taxpayers' money, so they waited until after that to resign, and then they pushed the UPPR. Afterwards he appeared for RTB “Bor” e.g. One UPPR which is completely unsustainable, with the state depriving a huge part of its debts, almost a billion euros, and then we see in this budget that they continue to seek money because it is the same management, completely incapable of running the company. Amendments to the Banking Act, e.g. which we have proposed and the amendments to the Privatisation Act have imposed a list of assets, an assessment of the value of the assets and that if the Director disagrees with being fired. Otherwise, for citizens to know, the directors are appointed by the government's staff commission to be run by political parties in power. If you're wondering why you have an incompetent director somewhere, it's because of the government's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9174	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9175	By amendment. It won't take more than ten seconds, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to accept. First, because it was so fantastic that it missed the calculation by just two billion and it says so in the government's response. Make it less important, but also because the proposal is disastrously illiterate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9176	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. The basis for the replica. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: No basis. ) All of this you have been talking about is actually addressed to the proposing representative, as far as I understand it, and you can get the most adequate answer from the proposing representative. Here's to Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9177	Since you didn't mention it in your answers, I wanted to spare both Parliament and the public our essential evaluations of this proposal, and now I'm going to have to say stop this discussion. The proposal proposes to stop paying guarantees from the state of Serbia and interest. He suggests that all investment projects be terminated for all participations. It suggests that an expropriation fund that is a prerequisite be abolished, the first step in the realisation of any project. It suggests abolishing the subsidies "The Railways", "Resavici" and all others, which would produce you know what effect. Not only that, it proposes that funds be abolished for an energy-hazarded buyer for the poorest and most sensitive parts of this society. In short, you are proposing Serbia's bankruptcy towards international financial creditors. You suggest stopping all investment projects, social rebellion. I don't know. For fundamental reasons, regardless of whether or not the figures agree, I absolutely cannot accept the discussion of this amendment, let alone anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9178	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9179	Thank you. And that's the first time you've said it. I didn't have time to answer your question, and I was up to it. Obviously, you've won the second time. Look at the ministers, it says in the amendment – the relocation of the funds. So I'm against giving, giving subsidies that are gifts, paying guarantees for what the public enterprise did because it's a gift and translating it into paragraph 6.2.1, see the amendment, 48 billion in one item and four billion in the other. When you don't give, but you put order into a public company and this is recorded in books as a loan that the Republic of Serbia has given to know in each of these companies that they haven't settled their obligations, not with such a gift to just wipe out the debt, and then after that you just show the profits of these companies, because they've been wiped out of debt. That's the essence of what's in the amendment. You must understand this, so I can't understand the way you explain why you're against the amendment. Let me say it one more time, it's a relocation. We are against giving, we do not forget that the state does not fulfil its obligations under guarantees, but you cannot just pay by guarantee, to pay someone's debt, say "Serbiagas", such enterprises, and then on the other hand these companies can show positive business in their balances because the state paid them what they had to pay for themselves. So those losses have to be identified there. This is what the World Bank and the IMF are talking about, and we're all pushing things under the carpet. This is just a matter of total transparency and a nice way to come out in books. So it doesn't occur to us, once again, not to pay guarantees, just to have a different time and book. It's the same with expropriations. It's different to register, not by bowing. We have a problem with public enterprises, they don't know what their property is, so when you buy them land, you don't know whose it is, so then we wake up to why the NIS goes away, etc. That's the reason for the amendment, not to impose bankruptcy. Also in Resavica, support for credit, not a gift through subsidies, and to introduce order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9180	The right to a replica of a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9181	What the proposal says doesn't match what you're saying right now. What you're saying now is secure already existing levels of leadership. There is a regressive right that the Republic of Serbia always records. Whenever someone is effective in guaranteeing or paying interest by guarantee, it exists in relations between the Republic of Serbia and "Srbigas" and all others. Therefore, it is absolutely not controversial. You're proposing here to remove the means to pay guarantees. In other words, you're devising guarantees. Without guarantees, they wouldn't even get those loans, and secondly, if it happened that the guarantee effect we wouldn't have where to pay from. So you're calling for difolt. It says here because there's no way, there's no other way. Secondly, you just need to know that there is no international, commercial or any other organisation that will finance the expropriation of payment of indirect transfers of so-called. taxes and all other things. In each international loan, we are expected to free them from VAT and release them from excise duties and everything else, if that belongs to the project at all. Explosion is always considered a part of it. Third, a concrete situation here with Serbia's participation in the loan, e.g. which gives the Russian Federation for Railways without that participation, the loan stops and any other credit where we do not have the participation of the loan stops. You're suggesting it all. You are also proposing to abolish the pay subsidies, for losses already made. Note closing "Bora", pushing into bankruptcy "Bora". And another thing I absolutely don't understand, which is a regulation on an energy-hazarded buyer that has defined funds in the budget, you say - is deleted. What you're saying and what you wrote in the amendment absolutely doesn't suit each other. You are proposing to empty all these appraisals, practically that Serbia go bankrupt and internationally and go into social collapse in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9182	I thank the ministers. Mr. Radulovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9183	I'll do it again, since obviously we're playing deaf phones here. I have no idea that the state is giving up its guarantees, but instead of booking the guarantee as a gift, it has to book it by making sure that a public company that can't settle its guarantee, which cannot settle its obligation to borrow, to secure it by mortgage on the property so that the company can actually settle its obligations, and not past the book to just wipe off the debt list what made that public enterprise. That's what these 48 billion dinars stand for in this amendment's proposal. As for Resavice and RTB "Bor", instead of giving money, the order needs first to be introduced, to register assets, obligations, to establish a business and financial plan, to establish job systematisation, and then to support credit when such a plan is made and not to fire and close. You're loading something I didn't say, I don't think. This is about reallocation of funds. So, instead of just writing and giving, which is done in Serbia for years, and within this budget you have 47 billion dinars of such funds, 47 billion. You took 20 out of your pensioners' pockets, employees in the public sector, teachers and doctors' 22 billion on electricity excised 14.9. These are all the things in your budget. Here's a proposal to reallocate such funds. So we need to establish order, we need to know when someone's making a loss, that this loss is recognized in books. Without the introduction of order, we have a continuation of the public, in which the superhic budgets, which are arranged year by year, are taken from citizens and businesses that are saving to reduce the deficit and, on the other hand, support the delocrats incompetent, who cannot lead the economy, and support foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9184	According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9185	I didn't say this, but the ex-minister: "All the firms in restructuring are going into bankruptcy. The state should immediately pay minimum wages to workers, as well as to connect their internships. “ Further: “Reform the pension system, not touch acquired pensioners’ rights. The burden of reform must be borne by both children and grandchildren of pensioners. “ Shall I continue reading? Cancelled means PIO Fund. You just know what, I've been talking and I've seen a lot of old gentlemen, though, they like to call themselves friends, who made this country and who had companies that were bankrupt, but mostly with those older gentlemen, who called themselves comrades, the bankruptcy didn't end up liquidating like an ex-minister, but the acquired manager, but those companies kept working.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9186	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a People's MP... (Saša Radulović, from town: Replica! But you're not mentioned. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He talked about me all the time – ex minister. ) You've identified yourself, but you know how many, even in this room probably have more ex ministers, so everyone could be recognized. (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: Do you really think this is a serious debate? We continue to work, you have no basis. Here, and Professor. Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic is an ex minister, so she was not recognized, and Mr Krasic is an ex minister, so he did not recognize himself. We're moving on with our work. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm sorry, I didn't see you sign up. So on Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Goran Chabradi. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Mr. Goran Chabradi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9187	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, I, as a member of the Green Party, have submitted an amendment concerning part of the environmental budget, and I am particularly pleased that there is Minister Nedimovic. The proposed amendment provides for three changes concerning parts of the funds foreseen for the activity. Under number 006 – support for civil society projects, an increase of 20 million is envisaged, then activity – the disposal of historical waste, an increase of 10 million, and support for the reuse and use of waste as secondary raw materials by 10 million. I know this is a cosmetic nature in fact, and I know that the environment is a very important topic for the citizens of Serbia, and I think you're aware of that, because this ministry is contained in yours, but unfortunately I think we've missed out as a society this time, and as a government, we form a special environment ministry. I think this budget contains a proposal, and finally the Green Fund was formed after a few years, and that's a good thing, but I think it's underestimated. I don't know if your associates told you how much he was in his earlier years, the funds collected. You know, he's a billion less than he collected in 2015, and the potential of that entire fund, I don't know if that's what your associates were telling you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9188	Time, two minutes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9189	Here, I'm done. So the potential of this fund is 14 billion, according to estimates. Fourteen billion, check it out. I must say that although I am an MP from this part who is the only one, I think, raised my hand when the government was elected to elect this government, I will not support this budget for the abovementioned reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9190	Thank you. You had another 29 seconds that belonged to the MP's club, so I moved on. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I thank you for the opportunity to speak a few words about this very important topic of the environment. I'll let you know just one thing, that one of the chapters where there are no criteria, that is, where we have a good nature and where we're going to be quick to open chapters, is a chapter relating to the environment. I think it's very important to point out, for one simple reason why a good job was done that way. The Green Fund is another result. What you said about what capacity it is, I couldn't agree more. We are currently making a register of all polluters, in order to increase capacity, but also later not only determine the basis, but also the possibility of charging for all polluters. That's what our intensity is. Another thing I also want to say to you, you've had in one part of your amendment regarding historical waste, we've foreseen a special location of 205 million dinars that will be designed to remove historical waste. Why does it matter? It must function in the development of this country and the development of the economy. Brownfield investment in old industrial complexes doesn't exist without this position, for one simple reason. It's all very nice of us to say that we have a lot of factory halls in many cities, yes, but they're not interesting to any investor, whether it's domestic capital, foreign capital, if we don't get rid of this historical waste. He's very important to exist as a position and I think you've recognized it well and that you've intervened through this amendment. What I also want to point out, and what you didn't, because of the weather you might have noticed, is that for the first time, about air monitoring, we established 40 million funds, to start with quality air control in Serbia's space, and through the Environment Protection Agency. This is very important and it is a very important measure for the health of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9192	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9193	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I spoke earlier that the entire budget practically, all the funds spent in 2017, are in this one member. Now there was a big dilemma in how to make intervention, because surely there was an idea to intervene in every or every ministry or institution in the budget in some way. I've defined myself for a little intervention here, and I have to admit, I'm sorry the government wouldn't accept this proposal. My proposal was to increase from budget reserve funds, which were otherwise from 1.6 billion to two billion, the adopted amendment of the Finance Committee, which reduced the funds to the Assembly and, among other things, in the division, the remuneration of members for election committees, which is probably the introduction of an election robbery. Let's get back to the amendment. I have proposed to transfer these 100 million dinars to the Professional Rehabilitation Budget Fund and encourage employment of disabled people. Why did I suggest that? The amount in the budget is 550 million, under the government's programme it envisions covering 7,590 people in the following year, which is 30 people less than the base value. Otherwise, the number of people with disabilities in Serbia is over 330,000, 170,000 are looking for a job, and only less than 10% are employed. This programme should allow as many people as possible to train and be ready for the market. I think this increase would help an extremely endangered group of people get to work in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9194	Thank you. The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9195	I thank the MP for the amendment and thank you for finally returning to the budget, the reason we're here today. We have defined 550 million dinars to encourage employment of people with disabilities through active employment measures of the National Employment Service, which is the same sum of what we had last year. Just to see what the reasons are. Last year we hired 4,913 people with disabilities through this measure, and in 2016, here and still, so, according to the data we have now, they didn't enter November and December, so January-October we already hired 5.166 people with disabilities. There was a significant amount of money left and spent. So in this situation, we now felt that the same amount of money should remain, and we have an agreement with the Ministry of Finance that if there is a greater need for employment of persons with disabilities, we will get money from the budget reserve. So there's no need to book in advance now, when we're not sure what's going to happen on the market. The moment you feel the need for increased employment of people with disabilities, or more of the demands that are coming to us, we will surely respond, you can be sure that we will raise the amount of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9196	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav Zigmanov submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9197	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the DS Parliament Club has given an amendment to Article 1. Our priorities are clearly in this debate aimed primarily at young people, to those who are educated, to 850,000 pupils in primary and secondary schools and our attempt to bring the amendment to at least the same status as basic opportunities for all those who go to school in our Republic of Serbia. This amendment was created by my fellow MP, Balsa Bozovic. Unfortunately, he does not have the opportunity, since he is unjustly excluded from the assembly session, we are all aware of that, in the way it has been confirmed on the Administrative Committee, and we are all aware of that. I, on his behalf, sign this amendment and defend it here before us. I call on Mr. Minister, because in the principle debate we have agreed that this is an important topic, and the Minister of Education is above all there, I think we'll understand each other when we analyze the state of education and the state of general knowledge of our students. We wanted to increase here, simply riverly, the innovation fund and that from the position of subsidies, and I will not go into too much detail, I want to talk about the essence, transfer and implement two billion dinars to the Innovation Fund, wanting to encourage in this amendment, above all, the development of those most talented and those who stand out in the adoption of scientific knowledge. We know and we are aware that many of our students show exceptional results, above all in math competitions, natural sciences, information technologies, and we have talked again about the need to raise the level of budget and gross social product in Serbia through, above all, high technologies and opportunities to achieve high development in these areas. We have proof and an example and a great shame for all of us, as well as for the Serbian government. This may seem like a difficult word, but it was almost information, and we know that, missing the PISA testing and the ability to determine really exactly what the level of knowledge of our students is. We have entered a general testing organised at OECD level since 2002 and, unfortunately, in 2009 and 2012, with a small step and a little better, but not enough good results, we cannot be satisfied. These results in 2012, we come to the conclusion that in 2015, the Prime Minister of Education or someone else, but it is the overall responsibility of the Government because we did not enter this test to determine the abilities of our students. Based on that test, we'd know where we are together as a society and what to do. In view of all of this because the three areas are being tested on the PISA reading, in the field of mathematics, in the field of understanding and applying this active knowledge, we want to contribute here by making two billion allocations to the Innovation Action Fund and incentivising those who have that kind of ability and thus promoting that kind of knowledge and that kind of advancement, and that kind of promotion of our education, to simply recognize that subject and to send to all those students who would have additional motivation to further educate themselves and to support them in all of this. That is why this amendment and the invitation and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance and all of you in the Government are simply to accept such an amendment because I think that in this way we would show this desire and send a message to every student in Serbia that we should view them as individual pearls that we should not miss because we often have a situation and as parents we know that in many schools, if you have 13 classes, you have dozens of great teachers, but it is enough to have three extremely bad ones, that some of the talents of some children will be missed terribly if they get a hole in knowledge, thanks to undereducated professors and insufficiently well-translated knowledge. And even if we have this problem in integrating all these different knowledge and lack of training and habits to apply those knowledge in an integrated way, then we know where we have a huge problem of the whole society. That is why our amendment is thus proposed. The new two billion additional to the Innovation Fund, with an attempt to make them the most creative, and their jobs. It's not just about the youngest. You have innovative people in the middle ages, and you have older ones. I think it's important to encourage all those who can give a new value, with new business entities that can develop thanks to their knowledge. I think the key message in all of this is that we will recognize that the real value of a country, some institutions are not measured by square meters of territory, but by the knowledge of people, their values, and above all their willingness to work on themselves, learn, and thus contribute to their country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9198	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9199	I'll have to do this because this unit doesn't work. First, to welcome the home of the National Assembly, and to welcome my colleagues who have left, union representatives, I've never had a chance before. In a short time, it would take me more than 45 minutes to tell you what I've prepared and what we can do at a given moment, and the collapse of education has lasted for decades, you all know that. I've worked 37 years and more, and I'd make my history of this story longer. What is true and what we have planned in the budget, which some parties that have given amendments have not recognised, these are the World Bank loan funds that we have activated this year, which are not last year the use of earlier years amounting to over five million euros for this period alone, that is what you mention, and in the letter of testing. It's the personal responsibility of individuals. So, not the previous minister, but the one before him, or his assistant, I know their names and last names, and I made a public statement. So, in order not to draw the mortgage of someone's unwork, I guess he was just being careless, away from being intent. We now have a team, we have paid for 18 letters and in 2017 we will have a trial variant, the fourth component is introduced, and that is economic literacy, where we have to find among the objectives and tasks of our students in the subjects that exist, mathematics, geography, some other areas, so as not to burden the weekly burden of students. We can move on that component. To the action we moved when it comes to library reading, we can move, and we will measure that in 2017. We will find it difficult to move when it comes to those other components, which is related to functional knowledge and learning, which is why education reform is needed. That's why we have to change ways of working, training teachers, the director of the license, and everything that's even listed here in the budget. We will do this to the extent that we will really move safely to more places in advance in 2018. I'd take the chance to say that with these little kids from first to fourth, teachers, we had a similar treatment, we took 27 places in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9200	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. By amendment, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9201	Thank you, Minister for this answer. So, yes, it's possible that some of the individuals in the ministry made a personal failure, but the responsibility of the subordination is not only on it, but on the entire government. And it's really a huge challenge for society, because it's a whole society, because we have insufficient data at this point, which is the status of our students' knowledge, and we've missed that opportunity and missed the continuity that would allow us to rightly monitor and make decisions, which would make it easier for you to work today. It's hard to say that it's an individual whose name we know is his name, but we wouldn't want to talk about him. But what is important and what I would like to point out here, all the successful countries, because we have seen and here we can learn that the children of Singapore are the most successful, for many years and the way they work, but I see that from European countries, exceptional successes are made by Estonian and Finnish children, above all. I think Finland can really be a respectable country for both of us and the way they reformed their education. Now that we're talking, and when we talked about professors and teachers, who receive children with open ability to transfer knowledge, just the beginning of Finland's knowledge reform was primarily on the selection of the best students who will be teachers and will be motivated to choose a teacher's call. So, with us, unfortunately, we don't have that kind of interest in calling teachers, because unfortunately their salaries are insufficient, so you don't have that motivation, and among other things, there's also motivation for those who take children, the problem is neither simple nor easy. That's why we're also trying to get back wages and educators, to get back to those who get kids in the sixth year, like an open book, and they can pass on knowledge to them, which will mean their whole lives and somehow determine their lives. So, starting right now should be there, finding ways, motivation, motivate exactly those who choose the best students who will choose the teacher's call and who will from the beginning make that reform in our education. It is no accident that this Finland 20 years ago, and it is not a simple and easy process, 20 years after such a reform, only after 20 years, came product and company such as Nokia and innovative models, which then contribute to the whole country and the whole development. So there's a start and there's priorities, and that's what DS stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9202	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'll give you two more minutes to answer your questions. There's a word for Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9203	Thank you. I certainly read Finnish lessons a long time ago, and what is important in my private practice was educational and applied. It takes a whole social consensus to come together and be a question of all parties, and that's what you're talking about, and I totally agree. Some immaterial damage not going out on this test was done. So it can be improved and given that we will certainly have better results in 2018, I say for these extra efforts. With a lot of money, you need new laws, you need a second freshness of people, a different selection. In that same context, the first phase in Finland, the first decade lasted, for eight years the whole cycle was, and two years of preparation. Finland's parliament has several times given up on this idea and on how to move forward until a social consensus has been made on it. Of course, Finland didn't have wars like us, it didn't have the problems that we had and everything that was going on with us, so we can't take them as a role model. We take the role model of the surrounding country. So we have intensive co-operation with all the countries that are similar to us, we look at our social miles, but we have to fix a lot of things when it comes to this social community, this middle school, not just external motivation. We're also talking very intensely to the government with unions to find funds within the system. The other day there was a union congress, both the external motivation of those people who work and the selection and one constant training and indeed, the sector I run has a lot of work to do on this subject. These are now the effects we can catch up to quickly. You've seen, these days have been a good result of science, which is not of course the merit of this team but of the previous teams, but that it can do more. We don't have like Bulgarians 300 million from European Science Funds. We have this here that we've now budgeted, and trust me, we have better results, let's say, when we take that country at least. So it's not like we don't have any results, we have talented people. It takes a lot of work here, you're all aware. You have children, you work most of them in various institutions, so you know what habits and customs are like. For spring, we prepared entire sets of laws to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9204	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Bosko Obradovic. The time left for the Devere parliamentary group is one minute and 34 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9205	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, it would all be nice what the minister says is that there is not enough information about the late payment of salaries to employees at universities in Serbia where it is clearly said that the Ministry of Education is not available at this time in its budget with sufficient resources available at the position of employees for the month of November 2016 and that later when the order comes and manages to transfer those funds when they are provided from the current reserve. So it's a real picture of your budget. As for the coming year, we, of course, supported by the amendment of our opposition colleagues, wanted to do something similar with our Christmas award, which is not our idea, but the idea of those who did not attend the gallery here, as far as I know, Mr. Minister, which is the union of Serbian Educational Workers' Union. The most serious union in Serbia that has made it clear to you and proposed how you can use various rationalisations and budget savings to provide funds in the existing budget if you wisely redistribute them to the item of the Christmas award that would cost all the educators six thousand 455 dinars. In addition to the fact that you are increasing the salary of employees in education, they will not come to the level of salary from 2014 when you cut their salary, and today you have educational workers in Serbia who have on average paid 13% less than the average salary in Serbia. It's a picture of your education. This is a picture of your relationship to education, and it is therefore very important that you have supported our amendment to the Christmas awards for all the employees of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9206	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. The word has Minister Mladen Sarcevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9207	I certainly support my colleagues, including the Union, who could have come up with the same thing, and I don't know why not, but we're talking intensively, and we have more stuff here. You've listed where all of this can be saved to create some amount of money and share a Christmas prize. I'm an Orthodox Christian and I really do celebrate Christmas, but there are people who don't celebrate it, and it would be appropriate to make it some other reward, if there were any conditions. First, there are no legal solutions, and the second one has no money, because this money you're saying is money that is limited and is related to credit when it's just before science, I've explained to you, in terms of innovation funds, when it comes to JUP and other institutions, I've already affected the reduction. When it comes to court disputes, unfortunately, I will only affect the school's director and secretary's licenses, as seen in the budget proposal. So far, we have disputes from the '90s and early 2000s that I can't cut, at least in the future we'll make a better picture of it not being like us, so we'll really be working on good savings. I, with all the unions, including the Union, have great relationships and I think we're good partners and my goal is to find a better solution. The collapse of education has been intense since 2009. It took someone to fight not to collapse so quickly. We have now first begun to rise under the circumstances and conditions that we have. So we're going to look for other means, we're going to ask for more equal status when there's a new increase, and I think this government is going to do it. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9208	You have no basis for replication, Mr. Obradovic, nor has the minister spoken offensively. (Bosko Obradović, from the post: By Article 104, I was misread. ( b) Do you want to explain what you were talking about? Here you go, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9209	Mr. Chairman, otherwise I have very serious and good communication with the Minister of Education. On many occasions, I participated in the work of congregation committees when he was present and spoke publicly about supporting some of his ideas, such as returning uniforms to school or as a very important strategic thing, that some key school items could not be made and printed by foreign publishers. If they do these two things, here's the public, as I'm saying now, I will support him and support his work. But there are things that don't work well, there are things that are problematic. Problematic, when he publicly says that he is now raising the standard of educators. That's not true. It's not true for the simple reason that two and a half years ago you stole 10% of their salary and everything you've increased a little past them, these and what you're planning for next year won't even reach what their salary was before you stole 10% of your salary. So don't claim to raise the standard of educators. You still can't reach that salary height that was before the 10% cut. Be honest with the educators. One, admit they have less average salaries than average earnings in Serbia, which is a scandal over scandals, which is a disastrous relationship of this government to educational workers, and then admit that you're not increasing them anything, but that you're trying to get them back to their level before you rob them by 10%. Then I'd tell you -- well done. That's fair. That's true. So you're trying to get back at them what you robbed them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9210	I'm asking you to speak with your chosen words after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9211	... to return to the level before the reduction, and then when you return to the level before the reduction, only then will you start to raise their wages. That's true, Mr. Chairman. So, the truth is that with all the increases in 2017, educational workers won't get anywhere near the amount of earnings they had before you took 10% of their salary. Did you rob them, take them, cut them down, call it whatever you want, but that's a fact, and that's your attitude towards the educators.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9212	I'm taking a swing, Mr. Beard. The word has Minister Mladen Sarcevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9213	I could start history since 1979, when I started working. So this story has long roots. The state gave as much money as it had and under what circumstances. I'm talking about history, the union conversation, although in 2009 they began to shrink more and to collapse compared to others, and that's a general fact. I have nothing to argue here. I have nothing to return and add, but I have an interest in repairing their material status together with the government and in agreements with the union. That's all I can say is smart. As for all the other issues related to textbooks, to the non-preservation of national interest and everything else, certainly we are preparing, today we had meetings and that the laws on textbooks were badly done. I wasn't a minister at the time, I wasn't using national textbooks, but I realized it was something that was mature to reform. So, we just had meetings with unions dealing with these areas today, and we will be safe with valid proposals in the Serbian Parliament. If there have been certain irregularities in the application of the law, the Anti-Corruption Agency is familiar with it and that is something I will certainly support to introduce it into legitimate flows and to underline that Serbia's path towards some goal, but also national interest within that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9214	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mikhailo Jokic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9215	I think it is time to commend the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education for proposing that in the city of Valjevo, where there are two schools – a agricultural and technical school, which can be said specifically that they are already in dual teaching, which has been allocated to the amount of 62.5 million dinars to build a regional centre, i.e. a republican centre, i.e. beyond that, because in the formation of this regional centre, the city of Valjevo will participate and Slovenia will participate as the Republic, so that this will be a centre that may serve the entire Western Balkans. On behalf of the educational workers, on behalf of the city of Valjev, I thank the minister, or the ministry, for recognising Valjevo as the place where it can be done best and most professional and cheapest. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9216	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment. The time remaining for the DS parliamentary group is 46 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9217	Something's getting smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9218	So, 46 seconds, it can't be reduced. The system is very precise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9219	I'm pretty sure you're stealing from us with that time. You say, Mr. Minister, that you're working in agreement with educational workers. You see, the problem with that is that educational workers say that you do not respect the agreement and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic, perhaps you have not personally sat in it, has not respected a single agreement with educational workers, that their salaries remain 13% below the republican average, although the vast majority of them are highly educated and are now begging you for 15,000 dinars of one-time aid through the media, which you do not have, just as you do not have for this Innovation Technology Fund, and on the other hand, you have the already famous 11 billion dinars that you give to your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9220	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9221	I don't want to comment backwards. I'm really starting to look, to be fair and to work with all the unions, and for high, middle and basic, etc. But I heard 15,000 today, this morning, there's a story and it's not real. It's your savings from something we've done together, the distribution of technological surpluses. It's something of something, and it's about this story of why they're late, they're going from the budget reserve for high, for the student and student standards, because it's not well budgeted, no rationalization has been done, and I've taken over the Ministry with more than three billion minus, so we can't share something we've gone from minus and we've started.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9222	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9223	Thank you. The draft budget law of the Directorate for Co-operation with churches and religious communities provides for one billion dinars of revenue from the budget. The amendment proposes the reallocation of 500 million dinars of revenue from the budget in favour of the Ministry of Health for the health infrastructure development programme for health services and for the programme's activities of building and equipping local health institutions, for which only 30 million dinars were intended by the original draft budget. I will read what activities are foreseen by the budget, as the government has delivered. I will explicitly read the text of the argument, to see if these activities are more important than the activities of the Office for Co-operation with the churches. Thus, “through this programme activity, in which we propose the allocation of an additional 500 million dinars, there is a co-financing of capital and other investments in the construction and equipment of health services at local level. This contributes to the unifying of conditions for the uniform achievement of health care throughout the territory of the Republic, especially at the primary level of health care in municipalities with unfavourable demographic characteristics and underdeveloped municipalities. Most of the funds are used for the procurement of medical equipment and investment maintenance of health institutions." This was read in the draft budget law. So, we believe that the reallocation of 500 million dinars on the burden of the Department of Co-operation with the churches, and in favour of this programme of the Ministry of Health, and this definition of budget funds is more socially responsible, because we think that citizens in local communities need doctors and homes of health, not popes and churches. The remaining funds for the Agency for Co-operation with the churches, therefore, the remaining 500 million dinars, are realised on planned projects, as originally imagined, but the funds are relatively reduced, with the amendment of the planned funds on behalf of administration and management and on behalf of pension, disability and health insurance of priests and religious servants being reduced, but the reduction is only done in proportion to planned programming activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9224	Thank you. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment, Parliament of the People, Marija Janjusevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9225	Thank you. I'll read it for a short time. Our fantastic phytosanitary system does not recognise error or oversight, so 1,000 dinars are provided for damages to the public authorities at the Plant Protection Office. As a result, we predicted a slightly larger asset. The administration is asking to buy more meteorological cells, but we are absolutely against it, until there is light-up of the forecast service that millions of dinars have invested in, and yet we have had a case in Balugas, Zableci and Goricans, where farmers have lost their full crops at over 200 hectares of potatoes. If they had been warned in time, there would have been no damage. I think it's fair for her to make amends to them, unless they might be punished for being Chacans, so they have that likable accent. The reason why I feel that the name of the programme should be changed is that the issue of the absence of a national laboratory is a painful topic of this society in which more and more sufferers are affected by the consumption of non-safe food. The funding of the National Reference Laboratorys Directorate does not really make sense until the role of the State and its officials and the EU and its officials is established in that national laboratories and its equally important monitoring system are not yet functional after 15 years of investment. The laboratory has been opened several times, and today it is not functional, and the money is still being given for equipment and facilities, and no one can explain where the system described in the government's conclusions is still in 2004. Where are the sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary laboratories in the system? Description of jobs and the objective of the directorship used to describe more programming...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9226	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. The word has a national emissary, Snezana Bošković Bogosavljevic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9227	Thank you. I will use the time of the Parliamentary Group, since a fellow MP has raised several questions. I think they deserve to be adequately explained and answered. First of all, the amendment is unacceptable, dear fellow MPs, and I suggest that we do not accept it for the simple reason why, by accepting the amendments, we would actually abolish the Plant Protection Authority and the intended means of functioning this administration would be directed to the Directorate for National Reference Laboratorys. I have to visit you that the National Reference Laboratorys Directorate has been formed with the aim of conducting laboratory analysis and related to them in the food chain. The directorate has no inspection. I also want to remind you that the Serbia-level plant protection system is in line with the International Convention on Plant Protection, which includes three non-exclusive cartoons, but on the contrary, cannot be one without the other. It's the administration, the inspection and the lab. In doing so, I would also like to remind you that last October we had a working visit to the FBO, an EU inspection that lasted 10 days. After that visit, the inspection unequivocally concluded that we have an extremely good phytosanitary system at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which means that we also have a well-structured system and that we have clearly defined roles in the process of carrying out phytosanitary control, that we have a good diagnostic service and clear procedure. The only thing that was an observation at that point was to complete the process of building a greenhouse, a quarantine greenhouse that normally didn't exist back then in the complex in Batajnica. We then said that in 2016 one part of the complex will end, or one part of the quarantine greenhouse, and one part will be completed and built in 2017 and the funds are defined for it. You mentioned earlier, in your address, the problem that was reported indeed in the field last year, at the end of the summer. It's a potato moth. You said the phytosanitary service didn't respond well at the time. I must tell you that the agricultural professional advisory service in Chačka informed the public in time, farmers of the increased number of this pest. Of course, some have suffered damage, because the optimal time limit for mild response was missed, and everyone agreed, so the profession agreed, that there was a lack of adverse circumstances and poorly applied agrotechnical measures and adverse climate opportunities, and there was a problem, indeed. No one's running away from the problem. They will now demand that the damage be compensated, but the state of Serbia has no obligation for the simple reason that the moth is not on the list of quarantine harmful microorganisms. That's why she had no obligation to inform farmers in some way, even though she informed them. As for the National Reference Laboratory, 2014, it is a project marked as a controversial project from a list of EU-funded projects. It is true that the EU has invested 7.88m euros in the project, Serbia's 2.9m and as I said in 2014 it has been marked controversial. We were then given clear indications that this project was either launched or that the state of Serbia returned the money. We set it off. In 2015, one part of the Directorate started, so one part of the lab. It's those labs that refer to phytosanitary tests. They started working. This progress was found in the European Commission's progress report in Serbia in 2015, and this is easily verifiable and you can see clearly. Then we continued to equip the second part of the Directorate and we were able to fully equip the part relating to the quality of milk test, and this was seen as progress in the European Commission's 2016 report. It's not true that it's been opened multiple times without working. Now you can go and see that one part works. This project is no longer controversial, but it is also true that there is still time for other parts of the lab, which are designed by the original project, to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9228	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Marija Janjušević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9229	I'm a little confused. Here is an example of how, as far as the public is still lying, it is sufficiently seen through a description of the activities of the Directorate, where it is said to continue to develop under the support of the EU. Correct me if I am wrong, but the budget does not say that the EU is helping the work of the Directorate, but only Serbia. Secondly, there are, I agree that the system exists, but how much does it work? We in large numbers have registered pesticides, problematic efficacy and toxicology, spread of genetically modified organisms, especially soybeans, lack of monitoring of GMOs in corn growing, rape oil, potatoes, etc. As far as milk is concerned, the reasons why we don't think we should finance this capital procurement programme until the issue with the equipment that Sasha Dragin bought is resolved, and then he set up at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad. How does he control it now? Who's taking the money? He now has the help of another former agriculture minister, Dragan Glamocic. Allow me, speaking of the EU, to convey one impression from the meeting with the Czech delegation. We drank wonderful wine from Serbia and they told us – raise the vineyards as much as you can, because once you enter the EU, it will not be possible for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9230	The word is made by MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9231	I just want to say that it is not true that the EU is not interested in the project it has funded in the previous period. On the contrary, reports published annually make it clear that special attention has been paid to projects that have already been identified, and I said just now, in 2015 progress has been made, they have admitted that we have taken significant steps. The project is no longer controversial, such as progress found in 2016. Now, in that second part, where you say you don't control plants, we have lots of parcels under GMO plantations, etc. Well, you're proposing, by your amendment, that we lift the inspection at that health clinic. These are the funds for the operation of phytosanitary inspection, i.e. for official control of samples of plant material on the ground. They have to sample the material to make that material, right, laboratory testing. That's why I say, our system, don't have any doubts, is extremely good. It's true that you always have to work to improve the system. It is true that more phytosanitary inspectors are needed, but believe that you can check everything I said, because these are indeed data that I have provided and that are verifiable, such as a verifiable document relating to the European Commission's progress report, so you also have a report of the European Commission's inspection of what this phytosanitary system is like in Serbia. Because, don't forget, we trade a lot with plants, fruits, vegetables with the EU. They would never have bought us our fruits and vegetables if that system hadn't been in line with them. I just want to say that I'm very proud of what our ministry officials are doing, and when it comes to plant protection, and when it comes to veterinary management. They work very hard, they're a lot on the ground, and unfortunately it's not always so visible, and the citizens don't recognize it that much, because they'll always trust these MPs, or those who say it -- it's not good, our apple isn't good, it's full of pesticides. That's not true. Our farmers know how to work. There are a number of them who use or abuse the means to protect plants, unfortunately, but somehow they always get more in importance than everyone else who works well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9232	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9233	Thank you. I had a lot to say, but I can see that there was an intense debate between the MPs here. Just a few things I want to point out. Zero tolerance is on GMO crops, and it's based on our regulations, and our phytosanitary inspection was 11 acres ago, where there was evidence that it was about GMO crops, destroyed, in the space of the Sword, and in the space of Sreman. That's what the fact is, and that's why we need a good inspection service. The other thing I'm saying is, the fact is that we have to do a lot in the control of the quality of the milk because it's one of the basic foods that appears in households. We have prepared a set of amendments to the Food Safety and Plant Protection Act to improve this system. The fact is that 590m euros is our export of fruit outside Serbia. First of all, I think of the EU and Russia. There have been individual jumps from the system, but together with Russian colleagues and colleagues from the EU, we see that the system has been ironed, and since 15 September this year, we are absolutely monitoring every stream of shipments from the manufacturer to where the fruit is distributed in Russia's space, and that's what's good. Believe me, if we had this part of the problem, we wouldn't have our fruit and vegetables anyone would want to receive. And in that part, we're doing very well. What you've noticed well is the system of the national reference lab. We need to do a lot of work here, and that's why we're going to go to the establishment of a national food safety council and continue in the milk quality control system, as one of the most important foods that appear, especially because of the age population and children.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9234	I thank you, Mr. Nedimovic. The 8th Amendment with the correction was submitted by the national envoy, Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Master of Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9235	Thank you. The Honorable Assembly, the president-in-Office of the proposal, envisions around 100m dinars for three activities related to dual education at all levels of education. These activities include promotion, development and implementation of dual education for which, if I understand correctly, Serbia still does not have a full legal framework. There is no law governing learning in the workplace, nor a law governing the conclusion of contracts between educational institutions, students and businesses. Why does it matter? It's important because we send people to factories, and we need a legal framework to protect students at work. Also, there is no law or legal solution governing the licensing of instructors at work. What I'm concluding from here is that the government is devoting these 100 million dinars to fund activities that the system has not yet offered as a solution. Let's just look at what these activities are in short. The first activity concerns improving the quality of education and education through the introduction of a dual model. Here is thought of dual education, within the Centre for Professional Education and perfecting in Valjevo, 62.5 and a half million dinars, for the reconstruction of the facility and the equipment of the Centre, which I failed to find as a registered Centre. My question, now is actually a request for clarification if there's a chance, is it about the Centre that is located, belongs to the University of Singapore, the special Faculty of Valjevo, has its head office in Sapco, okay? What I'm concerned about here, conditionally, is why I've proposed an amendment and suggested a return of funds on some other basis, is that the indicators seem unrealistic to me, or at least I didn't understand them. One of the indicators is that benefit will have one high school in 2017 and 120 educators who will undergo training to include and work on new courses in 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9236	I thank my colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9237	My question is... I'll be wasting my time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9238	Just a moment to check, I don't think you have any more time. My mistake, you've got another six minutes, 35 seconds, we'll make it up. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9239	Thank you. In the teaching directions of 2017, the question now is whether the curricula is developed and whether there is regulation for directions, because we all know what the standard of education means and how long it takes for them to develop at all. The second project is called "The Spirit of Youth." It concerns promotions and gradual implementation, and I am now intrigued by this, dual education in more than 150 primary and secondary schools in Serbia in 2017 and 30,000 parents. So they're kind of going to get information about what dual education is. It's almost 20 million dinars for a caravan operating in 33 cities, where the system is being promoted, something the system hasn't offered yet, and yet I'm worried about who's going to promote. We say it will be students, volunteers, high school students, who need to know what the dual education that promotes is, that is, there should be some legal frameworks again, or some definition of dual education in whose promotion we invest. The third programme activity is an activity costing 51 million and concerns the reform of the higher education system, through, among other things, dual education. The aim of this activity is to develop and implement concepts of dual education at higher education institutions. I was confused because I know that dual education is professional, or "locaysnel stiles". Now I'm interested in the part about how it's going to be implemented, what's the idea, at higher education institutions, because they're academic, and a small part that's professional, but okay, I'll leave it to you, if there's a chance to answer. So, what I'm concerned about here now is the process of accreditation of such student programs. We all know that the accreditation process first requires standards for accreditation. We don't even have a legal framework for this. It is, therefore, again, indicators say that this money will not be spent on it because they say ten study programmes will develop in 2017. I understand that legal solutions are being prepared for spring, and I also understand that there will be a process of accreditation and standards, but it doesn't seem realistic that we have 10 study programmes in 2017. With that, I say again, I suggest that the funds return to their salaries. Finally, the question, in fact, if there is an opportunity to clarify how this money, these 100 million dinars influences the implementation of the 2020 Action Plan of Higher Education, as it implies the introduction of employers' advice, solutions, legal arrangements for students, businesses and higher education institutions, does it include them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9240	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9241	Thank you for your questions, and for twice as long, I'm going to have to answer you quickly. So we're preparing everything that you've listed, so it's in the law-making phase, but it's also the high law that's going to take part of it. We have a lot of partners, including our Chamber, then the Conference of Cities and I work with them on higher education, especially in engineering studies, which have this concept very developed. Recently, we had a partner story with the Czechs, with the Hungarians, where it went a long way, and where there was no dual connection between secondary vocational education, but we are doing one national concept, because it's different how one agricultural school, a fellow mentioned earlier, looks like Valjevo is something else. Valjevo is not just a centre for Valjevo, but for some region 100km in a circle. It implies one concept that the Slovenians worked with Velenj, which we looked at in Velenj, which was one delusion to rewrite only a model of Austrian, German or any other, because the economy and Slovenian are not responding, that it happens because of young 14-year-old students who can't go to the factory, you have to have a centre where he can do it, where they are dangerous occupations, where they can't be exposed to others. This whole other ghost of youth, it's just a segment of that story. The brochures for parents are being made, and all these clarifications are being done well and qualityly, to reach the last schools, places, etc. Models are made in these booklets related to contracts, mentors. So I really need a lot of time to elaborate all this, of course, if something comes from the spirit of youth isn't enough for Val's. Slovenians invest 700,000 euros and this is the first center where we prove that it doesn't have to be just in the factory, but we have to simulate the conditions where we can prepare it beyond that, because we don't have conditions like Switzerland, Austria and Germany. We're doing a national model of that story right now and we're using science from all colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9242	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9243	Thank you. First you see a little impression as much as you can in these few seconds when there's no politics and no desire to demonstrate something and collect points, then the debate is still relatively normal over time. It is commendable for these people in front of the government, as well as for fellow MPs. Erem, I have suggested that although there is no illusion that there is not much to be done here, one proposal to move from these items – the development of a system in the field of public information and supervision of law enforcement, the reduction of the amount and the transfer to another item. What's the point? In response, the government says that this would reduce the wage for employees in this service, namely what the information and media sector is told by 60%. That is exactly the intensity of my amendment, or background or motive. I believe that in fact our Ministry, or the service concerned, or the sector in question, does not work, or at least the public has nothing or does not see the effects of that work. That's why I suggested reducing this item. So, I remind or quote what the Government has said, what is the responsibility of this sector, that these funds that cannot be reduced, which I have proposed to reduce, refer to the preparation and implementation of strategic acts in the field of public information, the preparation of the draft law and the supervision of the implementation of laws which are regulated in the field of public information. My opinion, and I would say the opinion of most people in the hall, and unfortunately most of the citizens of this country, is that there is no system in the public information sector, there is chaos. There's no surveillance, there's nothing but riding and anarchy. That's why, therefore, not to make less pay to colleagues or people who work there, but to appeal to the Ministry to either deploy these people to some jobs or to some work where they can contribute more, or to do their job. So that was the intention of the amendment and I'd like to hear what the minister has to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9244	The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Vlad Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9245	Dear Ambassador Vukadinovic, I do not share your bitter impressions of the efficiency of the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information relating to this part of the information. Without a doubt there is room for improvement, this proposal also applies to the impressions that you have made probably to some period that has been the subject of your analysis, but we are waiting for complex jobs in that part. The creation of a media strategy is under way, the previous one has expired, it is necessary to propose first, and adopt a new one. It is a very delicate and important process that is estimated and we are firmly convinced that it is necessary to bring more order into our media scene. Of course, there are other activities in the information sector. I can agree with you in the assessment that some opportunities may be missed and that some of the moves are not taken in an ideal way or in a way that could be estimated as close to ideal, but the definition is that with more talent and more concrete results, it comes next year. I think next year is quite important when it comes to a set of media laws, especially when it comes to the information and fate strategy of some of the main issues concerning our media scene. I don't want what I'm about to say to sound demagogue, but I think an opportunity to assess the role of the media sector and informing in the Ministry of Culture and Information would be good about now, so in a year when we see whether in this situation that is ahead of us, which is quite challenging, such a sector that I am firmly convinced is necessary and that it has something to do and in a very good way with measurable consequences that will have the opportunity to spot the whole public, that that is the time to evaluate. In this case, you have seen, not to repeat what is and the reason that you have implemented this proposal has been in collegiate with some other regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9246	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9247	I think we understand each other, to some extent and agree, but I would specifically ask you about the public – how many people are working in this sector? How many employees are there in this sector? I would also draw attention to you and your fellow MPs, if it were not just the case in the fields of culture and the media, but also many others, I would say more important areas, that the practice even a dozen years ago was that important jobs were removed from the ministry, that agencies were established, in this case REM, or former RRA, which deals directly as an independent regulatory body, whether it was privatising, whether it was the media. Then somehow the Ministry and the Government wash their hands, and keep the same number of employees and equal pay releases, and in fact they no longer do business and can always say – we don't do it, it's done by an independent regulatory body. So I'm not calling for people to be fired, I'm not asking them to cut wages, but I'm urging the Ministry to return some of the jurisdiction or take responsibility for the situation in the information and media sector, which I think is catastrophic. So the first concrete question – how many employees are there? It's not that important, it's just that they would know. I think it's a lot worse in certain agencies than in the ministries. Otherwise, I think that people in the government, civil servants in the government are generally very poorly paid for the very large work they do, unlike their colleagues with equal or less professional training, say by various agencies. So, I would like, in that sense, that even in that future strategy that we are talking about and which is really necessary, because the previous one was catastrophic, it's not on your account, not even at the expense of that government, to be fair, so, in that future strategy, it's more important that we don't think that every decommissioning, every decommissioning, taking power from the state that automatic progress in freedom of the media and democratisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9248	Thank you. The right to replicate, a proposing official, Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9249	The answer to one part of your questions is six. Six people are employed. The responsibility on the second part of your comment is that I can generally agree with some of the general angles from which you're looking at this thing. Of course, the Ministry of Culture and Information, and I would personally like to have more authority when it comes to the media, of course the law regulates it in a very different way, independent regulatory bodies deal with these things. It is and can be a subject, it is related to the experience and practice of EU countries and to EU rules. On the effects, this is not an opportunity to comment on the details, but I am looking at the effects of certain situations and strictness with a certain reserve. So it is certain that there is room for the Ministry of Culture and Information to act more actively. We'll try to use that space. I think that this is not too many employees and that if they work well, and they are expected to do so, but it is, we can expect that in some observed period, but I say by the end of next year, if all is well, the whole public will be able to assess from more angles the effects of such work and the purpose of the information sector in the Ministry of Culture and Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9250	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 8th amendment was submitted by Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai. And with one more apology from your MP's group for my little earlier mistake, you'll get an extra minute for the MP's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9251	This amendment, in which I proposed that certain funds be allocated to cultural institutions, was first and foremost done because I believe that with the inaccessible little resources, both material, financial and each other, and very little attention is paid to culture in Serbia. We have these days had opportunities to hear that this is almost an ideal budget, that it is the best budget in history, the best budget in the environment, etc. So, I haven't had a chance to read the budget of the Republic of Macedonia, I've barely been able to get to know this budget as much as we've had time for it, but that's why this year I was called as a translator of Serbian, of course, translator, the greatest living writer Margaret Atwood on "The Evening of Poetry". I was invited to Strug for their traditional event "The Evening of Poetry" so I could get a chance to meet this great writer. Since I'm very closely following and professionally engaged in this kind of event, I know what costs are, say, this is one of the guests and I know they're not negligible, but they're not unattainable for a country that takes care of its culture. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia rarely decides, organisations and institutions to organise such a one-stop-shop. We usually complain about what our audience looks at, reads and listens to, but we rarely take care of what we offer that audience. First of all, I think you should know that the Serbian reader's audience, for example, shows great interest. Last year, we had a Nobel laureate named Maria Vargas LJose. I'm very sorry if none of you had a chance to see how much patience the Serb audience was waiting to see, get to know and talk to this great writer, the Nobel Prize winner, and I'm very sorry that we don't have to worry that cultural funds are being channeled into such projects. I'll just remind you that this kind of hospitality is generally decided to accommodate, say, private publishing houses from their own pockets, and that it's very rarely or in no way by the state institutions, and, of course, all officials rush to take pictures with such giants and have wise conversations with them when they arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9252	Thank you. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić first has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9253	Thank you. Of course, the amendment should not be accepted primarily for the reason that the amendment requires that, in Section 28, relating to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, revenue and these revenues be transferred from the transfer of local self-government amounting to 4 billion 966 million 611 000, be transferred to another appraisal. This shows all the hypocrisy and politics of the religious concern that the opposition's representatives yesterday presented to the poorest and most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Serbia and toddlery care for children who allegedly do not have a meal in their words. I must point out that these funds are, in fact, the funds of local self-government, which, under the Social Protection Act, are competent to design in their budgets and to help the most vulnerable residents of their municipality. The proposers of these amendments would like to see one-time monetary assistance in local self-governments not having persons in a state of social need, means that this right does not have single mothers, that this right does not have the victims of domestic violence, that this right does not have children in the living room for children with development difficulties, that this right does not have beneficiaries of monetary social assistance when it is necessary to pay the funeral expenses, that this right does not have endangered socio-materials who need to be equipped for housing in a social protection institution, etc. The amendment is completely unacceptable from that point of view because it refers to transfers of local self-government and what is established under the Social Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9254	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9255	I'm talking about Article 27. I would rather ask and warn both you and the other chairman when the MPs, and it happens almost every day, from the ruling coalition, speak of the opposition, then what they say concerns the entire opposition. We Serbian radicals are not part of the opposition. We are the opposition to power, we are the strongest opposition party in parliament, but we do not allow ourselves to be placed in a basket with some other parts of the opposition. We are not hypocritical, nor were we involved yesterday in a debate that was just a matter of words, nor were we against helping sick children, etc. There's a lot of stuff stuck around here earlier in this debate, and I wouldn't be interested in it if it wasn't said to be an objection to what the opposition was saying yesterday. I also ask MPs of the ruling coalition to take care of who they think, not who they think, but who they can refer to. This is primarily for the public, therefore, and I ask you to keep an eye on it, and all the chairman in that sense, and the public needs to know and the public knows it, but just to confirm that, the SRS is an opposition party, but the SRS is not part of any alliances, new dosses, I don't even know what organizations are gathering within the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9256	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. According to the amendment, there is a National MP, Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9257	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have already seen during the debate, some parliamentary groups have submitted a large number of pointless amendments. We can clearly see here that this amendment clearly shows that they cannot interpret the budget. I fully agree with my colleague Milanka, who explained nicely what this item is about, transfers to other levels of government. It is clear why this amendment is unacceptable because it is not about the ministry's resources, but it is about the funds of local self-government, and it is about funds that finance exclusively socially endangered. There's talk of means for one-time assistance. It's spoken by means of people's cuisine users. Even if there was a possibility that these funds could be rerouted, I would at least accept it as something complete, I would be insanely characterized to take away money from one-time assistance from the most vulnerable to be relocated to other purposes. This amendment is definitely the paradigm of their populist policy, and I am glad they submitted this amendment because Serbian citizens can see and remember well what the budget of the Republic of Serbia would look like if they came to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9258	Thank you. You have a basis for replication. Replica, the folk emissary of Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9259	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say that it is true that it is possible to make certain mistakes in terms of our interpretation, because we ourselves know how much time we have had for this. But it's also true that these aren't the only funds used for these purposes that you're talking about, and I heard personally Minister Vulina say the other day that he knows that these funds from his ministry are very often spent unintentionally, so we know that sometimes they're assigned exactly where they shouldn't be allocated. We are just interested, you know what the people say - not to a man who is sorry for little, but to a wrong, and the fact that these funds are very often, which are meant for the most vulnerable, are spent precisely on those who are least threatened, is the problem of some others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9260	The word has a proposalor's representative, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9261	We're just having trouble reading the budget here. This isn't our money. This money is impossible to take. This is the money of local self-government that's in the accounts of local self-government, and here it's just being recorded. So you had to find, here, there's Mr. Djordjevic, let's say, take some of his items. So you could also put everyone's cobwebs on. This just isn't the money that's on the state's account. He's on the bill of local self-government. Just so we have a record of how much we spend on social protection. So that money's not in our account. It is mainly used to pay off one-time social aid. It's when a man needs a cure, or it's necessary to travel for treatment, or something like that. It is decided exclusively by local self-government, so it is they who decide how money is spent. By law, you have the right three times a year to seek payment of one-time social aid. So just to sum up, this money isn't on the account of the state, it's local self-government and it's simply impossible to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9262	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9263	Thank you, Chairman. I'll try to be as brief as possible, I think a lot of explanations have been given. I'm just going to give you an example. The local self-government from which six million dinars come each year is defined for one-time assistance from precisely these funds. In the last year, 2200 users, don't hold me by the exact number, about 2200 users on multiple occasions, as the decision on extended rights in the area of social protection allows for three payments in the course of the year. Now, we've come to the conclusion that the masks are finally down. All day long, we've been here hearing about the alleged struggle for the most endangered categories, about pensioners, about the users of financial welfare, about the children. We have come to the conclusion that we will completely abolish the one-off social aid to the most vulnerable categories of the population. It's nice to meet you. This year, the government has found a balance between those two things, the most endangered and those in culture. I remind you, here, a few moments ago she accepted the amendment on the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica – 111 million dinars. Let me tell you, more than ever. Four times more than last year, i.e. last year. We have seen, I have in front of me, adaptation, reconstruction of the Museum of Contemporary Art – 600 million, recovery and adaptation of the National Museum – 900 million. I'm glad the government found a measure between those two things. Nor is culture threatened, nor are the poorest layers of the population threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9264	Thank you. You want a replica or an amendment? (Alexandra Chabraya, from the post: Culture is very threatened by this amendment. That's it. Thank you. Just a moment, please. Following the amendment, the word has been made by a proposing representative, Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Minister Vukosavljevic, you have one more minute as a proposing representative, since Minister Vulin used it in a previous turn of minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9265	Thank you very much. I'll be very core. First of all, I'd like to say that the previous speaker said the right things. I am pleased to conclude that this year the culture budget has been increased, that we have also received support for capital investments and for these two museums, whose reconstruction and construction is going well. So we have reason to be relatively satisfied under these circumstances. As far as I'm concerned, for culture never enough, but, given this state's economic situation, this financial stabilisation, I think the government and the finance ministry had an understanding of needs and we're waiting for optimism next year. Another, regarding your comment, it is true that mainly publishers bring writers, but it is not exclusive, writers come to the Belgrade Book Fair in large numbers and it happens every year, and the Ministry of Culture is preparing a surprise for the beginning of June. It wouldn't be a surprise if I told you what this is about right now, but expect some news about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9266	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Radojićic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I wanted to point out in part this amendment the need to identify more means to raise the battle effort of our army, identifying them primarily for the purchase of new weapons and equipment, is understood by raising the standard of living of every member of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia, but also by reducing certain items such as, say, contracts or specialised services. Why am I here, in particular, setting out services by contract or specialized services? Because almost every anti-corruption report or audit reports cite all these items as an example of spending, and this is the most obvious example of budget spending, without knowing exactly where this money will go. That's why we, therefore, have defined ourselves to propose a reduction in funds when it comes to contract services, then specialised services, but also to increase funds when it comes to liquid repairs and maintenance, then salaries, allowances and fees, like I said, or, say, an increase in machinery and equipment. On this occasion, I want to point out a particular problem. So, at this point, we, by two months ago, had 573,000 dinars, or gross, i.e. 410.592 dinars net, without calculated past work, without a calculated coefficient and without a 20% debt fee for each member of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, as Article 95 is not respected. Serbia's Military Law, which says it is the basis for the so-called "Serb Army" account. The military salary of the sea is 75% of the average profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9268	Thank you, Mr. Radojičić. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9269	Thank you. First I'd go back to that violation of your law and the debt that exists. For information, the Budgetary System Act is above all laws. If he prescribes otherwise that the salary is accounted for, then it is calculated in another way. In your account to every member of the army, after an increase of 5%, which will now be in December, it should be in the budget for next year to single out 8.7 billion dinars or reduce the number of states by nine and a half thousand members of the army, and we view this as simply impossible and inappropriate proposal on your part. As for the budget fund, the budget fund, just to inform you, it is charged by ultimately making a final account and a budget with neutral funds transferred from the previous year. With that it seems to you now that there's a little bit in it, but it's going to be about as high as it was last year. Last year, it was 1.9 billion since the arms sale and 0.9 of the unscheduled surplus. This year, we have 200 million and 2 million for now-negotiated funds, with additional funding coming in the year. Now, on this proposal of yours, how and in what way to increase the material position, I took into account everything you said very carefully. He predicts that only the MPs know precisely: the reduction of the economic classification of 426 materials by 4,826.000,000 dinars, i.e. that only four million out of four billion and 800 remain on the appraisal; a reduction in the economic classification of 424 – specialized services of 0.3 billion and a division that is for emergency situations of 0.526 billion dinars; a reduction in the economic classification of 423 - contracts for 0.18 billion dinars. What does that mean in translation? This means completely that the army is left without uniforms, no shoes, no food, no fuel, no drugs, no firearms, no fees for students, cadets and cadets, for engaging in land security on the administrative line with AP KIM, participation in seven UN peacekeeping missions, the abolition of training for professional members of the army...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9270	I'll have to interrupt. Two minutes are up. Thanks again. The People's MP Zoran Radojićic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9271	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. Why did I especially highlight these figures relating to the downsizing, therefore, to the respect of Article 95. Serbia's Army Act? It's precisely because I believe that the downsizing that every defence ministry employee and the Serbian Army has has because of the lack of respect for the law greatly affects the abandonment, the departure of our professional soldiers and soldiers under contract. If I'm not mistaken, I think only in this calendar year is we lost, under the assumption that more than 1,000 members of the Serbian Army have gone away and I'm very concerned about that. That's why I pointed out that moment. As for certain peace operations, you and I discussed this on the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. So, we've cut funds. We believe that when it comes to peace operations under the auspices of the EU, we, as you know, view them as the cover-up of NATO's mission. We think our members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army should not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9272	Thank you. Replication rights are represented by Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9273	When it comes to UN peacekeeping missions, you should know that we have all ten people there, and that 320 people are in the UN, and you're terminating all peacekeeping missions, so you're terminating the UN peace mission. To continue to remove both salaries for soldiers and cadets and cadets, remove medical services for the same and eliminate the possibility of voluntary military service. The question of whether it is necessary to continue schooling at the Military Academy, whether it should be a voluntary service of the military deadline, I believe it is necessary, that the abolition of this is harmful to the defence capabilities of this country and the military and that it is harmful to the security of the Republic of Serbia. So I suggest that the National Assembly not accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9274	You have no basis for replica now. You have received an additional two minutes to clarify the question and make further findings regarding the amendment. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9275	Thank you. I would just repeat in an explanation what the amendment does not have to accept, which is that it provides for a reduction of funds in the division of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, in order to reduce the inflow of migrants. As explained in this amendment, it would jeopardise the exercise of powers not only laid down in the Asylum Act, but also other laws, i.e. sublegal acts governing refugee, internally displaced persons, reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement, as well as the work of the Commission on Missing Persons. For the simple reason that we have received praise, Serbia and our society, for our relationship with migrants, it is part of our tradition, we are a human society and we have shown that we have understanding for migrants, and I also want to point out that it is necessary that these funds exist for a particular reason in the municipality from which I come, in the municipality of Vrbas, the total number of refugees on the territory of the Vrbas municipality is 2,500, and the number of refugees who continue to have refugee status is 225, regardless of what years ago helps solve their issue, both through economic empowerment and through buying houses, helps them in heating, medicines. For this reason, I repeat that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9276	By amendment, MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9277	I'll be brief. It is not enough to be a patriot, nor can you be a patriot by saying only every morning “God helps you. ” The answer “God Helps ” we all know. I must say, this amendment should be rejected in a way. My colleague said a part of it already. If you look closely, the amendment foresees very large amounts when it comes to the management of refugees and displaced from the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In the municipality where I live, 12,000 people are registered today as internally displaced persons and refugees. The other day we signed a contract, i.e. The mayor of Subotica signed a 600,000-euro contract with the Commissioner for Refugees and Migrations from these funds. It is about building 30 houses for refugees and displaced and buying 30 rural houses. A colleague beside me signed a contract in his municipality at 70,000 euros. Don't tell me that removing these funds is a concern for Serbs in the region, caring for our refugees and giving a damn about our nation as a whole. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9278	You have no basis, Mr. Beard, for replication. I don't know what you've identified yourself in. I believe your colleague wasn't talking to you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Who only says "helps God"? ) The basis for the additional two minutes is the representative of Prime Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9279	I'll just take a moment, really. Of course, this amendment should not be accepted, for a very simple reason. This section provides for more than 800 million dinars for internally displaced persons and for evasive faces. Just so you know, there are still around 30,000 refugees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So we're talking about our countrymen being expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, etc. If something like this had been done, we would have lost any help, we would have lost our ability to participate in improving their lives. Of course, we must never forget, and we must always say it loudly that in this country there are still about 200,000 internally displaced persons, therefore, people expelled from KIM who have been deprived of the opportunity to use their property and many other rights. So if this amendment were to be accepted, all these people we're talking about would be left without any support, and that's really something that's absolutely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9280	Mr. Radojičić, neither you nor Mr. Obradovic have a basis for replication. You've exhausted the time of the parliamentary group, as well as the time that belongs to the head of the parliamentary group, so you have no basis for reporting. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: An insult? He says that I am a false patriot because I say “God’s help. ” That's all I'm saying. I didn't get a chance to hear it. I don't know why you recognized yourself in that. We're moving on with our work. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9281	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the proposed law. I'm staying at his explanation and we think it should be accepted. When it comes to the budget and when it comes to these bodies being financed, according to the provisions of this article, the state authorities are covered, including the authorities of judicial institutions, so the judicial authorities, judges, prosecutors and their deputies. I think one share, as you predicted, is funded by 70% of the budget, and 30% of it comes from taxi fees. However, I personally believe that it is high time 50% of the fees paid to be transferred to be paid to the holders of judicial functions, but primarily to employees in judicial institutions because their salaries are extremely low. What affects the budget and how does the Serbian budget collapse? I'm not going to say that this budget, as previously said, is full of hollow holes like Swiss cheese, however, financing and court costs, how does the budget go? The bankruptcy mafia in Belgrade in one case had six indictees, with a first-degree verdict given 23 years in prison, however, due to the case being held in a drawer at the judge's office, if that is correct, Veroljub Cvetkovic's 11-month sentence, the case has become obsolete. The cost of defending suspects was about a million euros. This amount from the budget could be paid to 4 000 and 100 salaries employed by judicial authorities, and above all to employees of administrative workers. I think it's high time the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Justice agreed to control and control how these funds are spent. Let me just add, if you'll allow me, total expenditures and budget expenditures for services and goods, 105 billion 914 thousand. For that amount, it could be bought, 71 000 tractors to bow to agricultural individual producers that they could arm this rich Serbian country, to produce for themselves, to produce for the country, to produce for export. Three times the amount could have been reversed and the revenues would have been far higher. That's why you have situations like this, on charges that the court releases several billion dinars needlessly on the costs of the court, not counting those relating to detentions followed by lawsuits and expenditures from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9282	Thank you. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9283	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment which would return to them the basis for the payment of the salaries of judges and prosecutors. I don't think it makes any sense that if we want a real country in this country, if we want to fight corruption to pay judges and prosecutors to shrink. You passed one law two years ago, where you cut everyone's salary in public service. I hope that after two years there is some analysis, and that analysis should say that judges and prosecutors have been reduced 10%, and then to those who work in loaded courts, or who have 500 cases in work, that the data has been abolished as burdened judges. So one judge of Belgrade's 1st basic court has been reduced with the abolished addition of 15 thousand dinars and tens of thousands of dinars of salaries under the law, by 25,000 dinars, their incomes have been reduced. I propose this amendment to return at least the 10% that have been reduced and to find a way for those who have 500 objects in work and who cannot raise their heads to reward for this great effort and work. They don't have enough associates, they don't have enough associates for a reason because there's no money in the budget that every judge has one associate, but they don't have any more associates because they're all going to law school. The lawyers go to the lawyers, the prosecutors go to the lawyers, the judges go to the lawyers, and who stays to judge, and you all know how long it takes for us to have an independent and effective judiciary, that is, the judiciary that has the knowledge of being able to judge the cases that are being put before them. That's why I suggest we raise these salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9284	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The word has a proposing representative, minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9285	I'm going to comment briefly on the two proposals that have already been made here. One proposal was to return this base to its initial value, and the second proposal was to change the participation of salaries in court fees. It is regulated by another law, the participation of wages, and therefore cannot be subject to this law. And changes to the base on the amount that was valid until October 2014, there is simply no such thing as any other salary in the public sector still lacks a professional space. The moment space is created, that will be done to them. Therefore, we are handling the same principles for all. I understand your concern for the judges, and I would extend that care to all other parts of the public sector. There's a colleague of justice here, and she can comment on you further. My comment is only unfortunately limited in fiscal areas, and within that space we have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9286	Thank you. The word has a representative of Prime Minister Nela Kuburovic's proposal. You still have a minute as a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9287	I thank the chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here's just to refer to what Minister Vujovic has already said, it is true that there has been no increase in the salaries of judges, public prosecutors, but the big problem is precisely because the reform of the judiciary that was carried out in 2009 still pays compensation for material and immaterial damages, and it amounts to more than a million dinars for each judge who is returned. If we know that he was returned to the system of 800 judges who had to return to their posts and about 200 prosecutors, according to the Constitutional Court's decisions. So when you recalculate, you'll see what amounts it's about, so that's one of the reasons why it wasn't possible to get an increase in the salary of judges and prosecutors. There's something else I have to point out when it comes to the extra burden on the work of the judge and the prosecutor, they've never received such an add-on. So I don't even know what you're talking about. It may have existed in your time and may have been received, but the legal basis for such a thing does not exist. The burden allowance can only exist when it comes to civil servants and tenants, but this supplement has been abolished by law in the budget system for all civil servants and deputies in the system, not only for employees and courts and the prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9288	Thank you. You have the right to a replica. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9289	So, we got two contradictory responses from the Secretary-General and the Minister of Finance. You mentioned the surplus and you said we'd end up this year in surplus, a deficit never less. So if there's a surplus, that means there's money. I believe that money should be defined for these purposes. If you claim there is no legal possibility that someone who works more gets a higher salary, and someone who doesn't do anything, has the same pay, so make that legal framework. What's the problem? You have insight into this, you see how many cases you have by judge at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, and how many in some other courts you have. Well, they can't be the same paid people who work differently. So it's up to you to build a framework, and the money has because you're talking about the surplus and you said we're gonna end up this year in surplus. It can't be the same for everyone. Where's the analysis after two years of what we got from that law, what we lost by that law. I believe that in this part of it, which is very important, it is the judges, prosecutors, that we should make a correction that this law no longer applies to them, but that the salaries return to that level when you say, when someone was in power, you were in that same ministry and when it was second power, you were in the ministry, so you decided that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9290	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9291	I'll correct you, I wasn't at the Ministry myself at the High Council of Justice, but unfortunately I wasn't someone to decide but I was just a civil servant. So I wasn't the one making the decisions. What is important is that when you talk about judges and public prosecutors, it is about officials whose salary is determined by the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors where the coefficient is prescribed. The budget law lays down the basis on which their salary is determined and no other addition can be made on the salary regardless of their burden. So there is no difference between the judge's salary whether they are in Belgrade or in Surdulica. Whether it's fair or not. We'll probably agree that it's not, given that there are different systems of burden and the only possibility that the Judges Act provides for them, is where the number of judges are not filled so that they can increase their wages. This possibility was certainly used by the High Council of the Judiciary, so it was the first basic court, where the most burdensome department, civil, took advantage of that possibility and has a 15% salary increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9292	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9293	I thank you, Chairman. It is logical that all of us want the judiciary to be as effective as possible, so in terms of this objective of judicial efficiency, it is logical that the holders of judicial functions also have adequate profits and it is logical that these profits are significantly greater than they are now. However, what we have to accept as a fact is that, above all, this budget is what it is and it is not possible to intervene in the budget. It is possible to intervene in the Law on Judges, it is possible to intervene in the Law on State Prosecutors. When? When financial conditions are acquired for one such intervention. Reminders for the sake of this, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration did something very affirmative for judges and prosecutors a few years ago, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court's decision was suspended. What's that? The judges at the Republic level, or the judges of the Republic rank, are rightly recognised by the Law on Judges to have financial compensation for a separate life. They were judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Court of Commerce, and I think it was the Administrative Court. All other judges, unfortunately, could not have had such compensation, which is why an initiative was submitted to the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court decided that such a provision would be considered unconstitutional. Of course, in this direction, the SPS parliamentary issue has been raised in this way, and in this direction, it should also be done in the future to treat all judges in a way equally and to have equal status. However, in this situation in which the budget is present and in what current situation is being determined by the Ministry of Justice, so far as the Ministry of Finance has allocated certain funds for social contributions, I do not think it is possible at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9294	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branka Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Dr Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9295	Thank you. I proposed to the amendment that each direct and indirect user of the budget on the Internet presentation will publish a detailed budget implementation with full analysts monthly. Every month, no later than the tenth in the current month, and for the previous month, each budgetary will announce exactly how much the budget spent on all budget items. By applying the provisions on the protection of personal data prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act, individual names of employees will not be published, but their number will be published by all types of contracts, all job systems, amounts paid and these data will be published aggregated. In addition, I propose by amendment that the Ministry of Finance be obliged to publish budget implementation on all budget items through its internet presentation each month, ensure full transparency and public control of budget spending. Not only are information declared secret by the Constitution and the law, especially in the areas of national security and defence, published. On the basis of the reasons, I conclude that the Government does not distinguish and identify the general public with the notion of reporting between individual state authorities. I conclude this because it is stated in the explanation that the minister's obligation to inform the government at least twice a year of budget implementation has been established. What I insisted on is that the public can access an Internet presentation at any time that will be published on a monthly basis, not twice a year, in detail of budget implementation with analysts. I also made it clear by the amendment that no individual names of employees will be published under the contract of work for a specified time and temporary and occasional jobs, but that their number will be published by all types of contracts, all job systematization, paid amounts, and these data will be published collectively. So my amendment refers to analysis, and that doesn't mean publishing specific names. So, I stress once again, in my amendment, I asked that data and analysts can be accessed by any citizen, and the proposer explains this with the obligations that the ministries have towards the government, and the government further towards the Assembly, which is not and cannot possibly be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9296	Thank you. National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9297	Respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment proposed by Dvori is something completely logical and something that is of interest to you Serbian citizens, which is that all direct budget users are obliged to publish on their internet presentation the monthly budget implementation by the end of the month for the previous period. So, what does that mean? Every Serbian citizen wants to see what you're doing with people's money. What do you do for us in refusing the amendments, i.e. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia suit? That he can't accept it for the reason that the obligation has already been made for ministers to inform the government twice a year about the implementation of the budget, and then the government delivers it to the National Assembly. What does that have to do with Serbian citizens? So, Serbian citizens want to see directly how you spend their money, without any mediators, even if it is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What could Serbian citizens, for example, find out if they could read budget implementation on internet presentations? They might find out, for example. that Mrs. Mira Petrovic, former secretary of Milan Krkobiæ, former adviser to the post office director, who had the salary of 200,000 dinars, the current post office director, was elected without public competition and without a university degree, works in three places. She's also the Director of the Post, she's also a National MP, and today she's not here, and she's not getting paid and she's not sitting in the National Assembly session, and she's a member of the RTS Programme Council. You see, if the citizens of Serbia could find out that only one PUPS member receives three salaries, director of the Post, and is elected not in competition and has no university degree, the MP, and is not at his post today when discussing the most important assembly law, or the annual most important assembly law, and also imagine, it is also an expert on the RTS Programme Council. That's what we're asking to know when you have to post all this online presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9298	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vera Paunovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9299	I would just like to tell Mr. Obradovic that Mrs. Mira Petrovic is not receiving a parliamentary salary here. She's just taking a shower and she's employed as a mail manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9300	I'm sorry, colleague Paunovic, I'll give you later. First you must state which member of the Rules of Procedure you are calling for, and then explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9301	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9303	I mean, it's not right that you've been calling PUPS here for two days and Mr. Milan Krkobic and Mrs. Mira Petrovic. I think that these are people who really deserve to be in those places where they are now and that we give absolute support from PUPS, and Milan Krkobic has proved his work by leading Serbia's post office for four years with exceptional results, which he has been paying from profit to the Serbian budget. That's how he cut his budget commitments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9304	I'm asking you to still talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9305	Mrs. Mira Petrovic came to the post of director of the Post Office of Serbia, but Mira Petrovic does not receive the salary of MPs, but only receives a flat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9306	I can't let you continue to speak for one simple reason, because using it seems to me to hurt the Rules of Procedure to replicate and to enter into the discussion. You could have answered, if you wanted to, by amendment, because the PUPS Group has time, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be made by me as chairman. It is my duty to ask you if you would like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vera Paunović, from the place: I want to. I thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. ) Can't replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic Mr. Obradovic, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Bosko Obradovic, from the place: And how can the replica inside the injury?]] The word has a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9307	First of all, I think you're misleading the public into a few things. First of all, nothing can be seen from such an execution. There are informants on every ministry site where you can see who's doing what and how. When it comes to receiving and paying, you see them very clearly and transparently in the Anti-Corruption Agency, and there you can see exactly how many receipts each official has. Now, when the matter of reporting and when you say disclosure is once a month, you need to know that this disclosure is going to look like this, in one of the general numbers where you don't see anything. Anyone who isn't an economist and who doesn't know the finances won't have any insight into what's going on. It means nothing to you to execute when you don't know what the dynamics of that execution should be after a certain economic appraisal. Maybe it would mean more to you, you're not an economist, you have balance cards, you see them like this in colors, so you can see if it's red, green or yellow, that might mean more. You asked if you should publish clean numbers. The numbers, the public doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9308	Thank you. Mr. Obradic, you now have a basis for replication. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9309	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I know it's sensitive when we discover another affair at the top of the government and that it's not popular for the government, because if it turns out that one of the new authorities' consciences, which is certainly a PUPS, which is a false protector of pensioners, the story of savings in the state, is taking out 10% of the pensioners, out of a provision that synchronises pension rates with cost of life and heights of prices, and then one of the main political protectors of pensioners, false, of course, POPS Vice President Mira Petrovic, makes incomes on three sides. So, Director of the Post, if she was 186,000 as a counselor, then count how much she has as a postmaster. A pauser who wins as a National MP is 27,000, a member of the RTS program council. Count on Mrs Mira Petrovic not to be below 400,000 dinars per month. We're talking about savings and we're talking about Sasha Jankovic, and we're talking about what we don't know, and imagine when we think of, say, Dusan Bajatovic with a million dinars, and then we think of Jorgenka Tabakovic with 700,000 dinars, and then we get to Mira Petrovic with 400,000 dinars and then we talk about savings. There's no savings. This is a budget robbery and citizens of Serbia, because you keep saying it has to be saved. You take 10% of your salary and pensions, but you never save on yourself. Yesterday I discovered you still didn't deny me. Yes, here's all the ministers shut up, and Mr. Vulin, shut up Mr. Nedimovic, shut up Mr. Djordjevic when I tell them that you've increased the government's budget by a billion and six hundred million, you're opening a new government office. That means you're not saving, you're spending people's money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9310	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. You see, I've been too correct. The basis of the announcement was a replica of the presentation of Minister Djordjevic, and what you were talking about, but there was absolutely no point of contact with the presentation of Minister Djordjevic, who spoke directly to you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Can I have the word now? No, now you won't get on your great grief, you don't have a basis for replication. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9311	Just for the sake of truth and for the sake of clarification. The claim made earlier is related to the costs incurred under the ministries. The other day, when it was a principle debate, I was talking about the cost of the Ministry of Agriculture. I apologize if you weren't here. I've been here the whole time and during the principle debate, discussing amendments, and I think it's my responsibility and my job. Eighty-seven percent of the cost, 87% of the agriculture ministry's budget goes to subsidies and capital expenditures, billions and 539 dinars, more specifically, are reduced operating costs of this ministry. This is one thing I don't want you to respect me for, for one simple reason. The first thing I did when I came to the Ministry was cut the costs within the functioning of the division, and we transferred everything to agricultural producers and increased the quantity from 520 million to a billion and 200 so that 5,440 agricultural holdings would get funding based on investments submitted by the Agricultural Payments Authority. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9312	Mr. Obradovic, you just got the answer to the question and the findings you made, and you had another two minutes to talk. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: He said I wasn't in the O.R., and I'm in the O.R. I hope you understand, and you can't get a basis for replication. You can't get a basis for replica at this point. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9313	Respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, my amendment is similar to previous amendments and provides for a commitment to publish data on the finance ministry's website on budget implementation by the end of the current month for the previous month. You see, in all responses to this type of amendment, the government has delivered that ministers are quarterly and every six months reporting to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that this is being delivered to the Assembly. I ask the question, after 5 October, of all DOS governments, from the DOS government of Zoran Djindjic to the DOS government of Aleksandr Vukic, did one deliver the final bill to the Assembly for adoption? We have no idea of budget implementation. That's one big problem, and because we heard here, when there was one controversy and one big debate where we caught the government of the Republic of Serbia not telling the truth, and it concerns the company "Endava", about the subsidies to the British company... We've concluded from the government's response, and we can agree that what it says in the budget doesn't necessarily mean. So it can be, but it doesn't have to be. All the figures and all the things written in the budget should be taken for granted, precisely because as MPs, including all the interested citizens, and believe that many interested citizens with knowledge from the economy, Mr. Djordjevic, would follow what is being published on the site and that, certainly, journalists could translate into a simple language to ordinary citizens and thus be informed on time as our money is spent. I don't see what's controversial, what the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to hide. I believe most things go to the expense of purpose, but we're interested in the part that you want to hide, which is certainly not small and therefore we appeal, for transparency, especially if you have nothing to hide, to adopt one such amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9314	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9315	First, let me tell you that the budget is spent on some adoption plan approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The plan after adoption and after its realization is not being destroyed. He exists today. After each end of the financial year, there is a state audit institution that controls all this and has so far failed to comment on the implementation of the budget. Where she had the objection, she made recommendations and may have initiated misdemeanor proceedings. Generally, she had no objections, and Minister Vujovic and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic told you that you will receive a final account for 2015 and for every subsequent year and from now on it will be the obligation of each government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9317	In principle, I wouldn't answer. I agree that this amendment is unacceptable, but something has bothered me in the presentation of our colleagues, especially in this presentation of the previous speaker. Those people who declare themselves Serbs, as patriots, as a Serb party that respects Serbian language, Serbian letter and tradition, surprise me that very often use words transparently, information, etc. In our language there are simple, fine words that mark what you were about to say. There is a word of notification, there is a word clear, so I ask you in the spirit of that heart and of our language and of our letter that you use our language and letter in the future. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Replica, one of us. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9318	The basis for the replica is MP Srdjan Nogo, because he is the promoter of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9319	I thank my esteemed colleague, and I can agree with his finding that it is very important to keep the Serbian language and all, as MPs, we should try to cultivate our beautiful language. Of course, we're all exposed to various media content that corrupts our language. It's simple, and we're living people, so we often end up with some foreign words in an excuse. I'm sorry, and I'll try to make it as small as possible. I am glad that from the presentation of this amendment, it went in the direction that there is really no reason not to adopt it, because Minister Djordjevic himself, and you, too, told Stojmirovic that the Government of the Republic of Serbia absolutely has nothing to hide, that everything is clear and visible, and that you could just be proud of your budget implementation, so I really don't see why the Ministry of Finance would not publish on its website, then, how the budget is spent every month. I'm also grateful that no one has denied that the SNS government is just one of the post-five-octo-octobaric DOS governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9320	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9321	I thank the chairman. Replication of exposure, mentioning of the party. Who about what, a soldier about shortness, and patriots about honesty. Right? Therefore, today we are talking about the budget and we are talking about public finances. So, general ignorance of the public finances situation. Each Serbian budget is adopted a year before the previous one is realized. Today, we are adopting a proposal to spend money on Serbian citizens next year. In the following year, we'll get a report on the implementation of the previous one, which, based on the DRI, his report, we'll get, in fact, the final bill for the previous year. Therefore, Serbian citizens, and based on all international standards, will also be able to see all the laws passed in the Assembly, relating to public finances, as money has been spent. And it's procedure, and those who don't know have to learn. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9322	The basis for the replica now is? (Bosko Obradovic, from the scene: Did you hear what she said about patriots? You recognize yourself in? I don't think you have a reason and a basis for replication. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: Yes. ) The word has been given by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9323	The Honorable Chairman, a member of the Rules of Procedure of 107, may have been degutantly and inappropriately, dear colleague Tomic, quoted one such proverb in the Serbian people, but I am not ashamed that I am a patriot and that, the patriot should speak of honesty, whatever she means by that. If there is no dispute to deliver that final bill, otherwise, we will commend Alexander Vukic, if after five years the authorities finally deliver the final accounts and it will be a great exception and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9324	Mr. Nogo, you've pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you're using this, I've given you the opportunity to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've called for a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9325	A member of 107 was injured, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9326	I agree, you called for article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9327	Regarding article 27, too, you are required to take care of the order at the session, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9328	I'm taking care of the order at the session, and I'm going to have to interrupt you, because you're using the right that I've given you through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to continue the dialogue and debate with your colleague, and I need to tell you no one has a monopoly on patriotism. I'm convinced, almost every single one of the 250 MPs in this National Assembly considers themselves a patriot, and I don't see any reason why you've identified yourself in what it's about... I can't answer and explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure to further hurt the Rules of Procedure and hurt what Mr. Nogo was talking about. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Another member was injured. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9329	Thank you. Mr President, Article 104 makes it clear that if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insulting to the MP, therefore, if a member of the ruling party says they are unfair to all patriots and speaks in the context of the previous speaker, Srdjan Nogo, a member of the Dveri parliamentary group, then it is clear who his insinuation refers to. (Bosko Obradovic, from the site: What is your problem in giving you the opportunity to answer? [[off microphone]] You turned off my microphone. I have no right to explain. How do you know what I'm gonna say? ).
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9330	I don't really have a problem. I'm shutting down because you're advertising and persistently trying to get through the indicated... Your colleague says so. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: someone can insult me freely.) ) (Bosko Obradović, from the place: I didn't say anything. I'm not finished. I've got two minutes. Just a minute. You'll get extra time to explain, just a moment, please, up to two minutes. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You know what I will say. You've said enough in the opening statement to make me realize that you want to continue to replicate your colleague through the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure. When you mention Article 104 and the right to replication, Article 104's stance – on the use of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I have decided that you have no basis for replication. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Article 104 clearly states that if someone has offended another). I thank you. No one has offended you. I thank you. I understood the explanation, and I did not allow you to keep the dialogue and to continue in the follow-up of your reasoning. Here, let's see what you can explain further. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9331	Chairman, I've really appreciated you so much so far. When you took over the presidency, I thought you were objective and you knew how to treat both MPs and MPs of the opposition as well. Don't break that picture in my eyes. So 104 says clearly, if anyone has offended another MP, you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and to give a replica. You didn't give that replica. Why was there a basis for replication? That's what I started to explain to you. It was the basis for the replica, because the previous speaker, Mrs Tomic, made it clear that in the presentation of the previous speaker, Srdjan Noga, she saw something that associated her intelligence with a folk proverb about honesty and dishonesty. So it's so clear and so precise a basis for a replica, I don't see how you can't see for yourself that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9332	You've got an extra minute. So neither the colleague mentioned in her presentation of the previous speaker, nor did you have grounds for replication. I can't say that from this position. I continue to exercise the right of Articles 3 to 104 to decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article by the President of the National Assembly, which I have done. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Bosko Obradović, from town: Of course. I thank you. According to the amendment, MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9333	We'll find it interesting and small. I can see that all the heroes here have denied anyone when I'm here, but when I'm gone, there are God's brave ones. Well, here, let me talk to you. First of all, I won't do much to justify myself, but I have to say, it's really inappropriate for a fellow MP who considers himself an intellectual, since you point out what you've finished to be false. I've got the MP's time, I'm the head of the parliamentary group, I can speak easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9334	Comrade Petrovic, you have time like...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9335	I'm talking about the amendment. I'm going back to where I personally...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9336	I was just about to ask you to talk about the amendment to article 9, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9337	Yes, I'm sorry, since I'm the head of the parliamentary group, and speaking here about me personally, name and last name, very offensive, I just have to ask for time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9338	That's what you could talk about the moment we talked about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9339	Since, unfortunately, I was on my way, unlike most people who don't work, from that MP group, I have a... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: We are now offended. What are we doing here all day? She's traveling. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9340	Just a moment, please, Mr. Djurishic, I certainly won't let the debate go in this direction. So, please, colleague Petrovic, I told you very precisely, you have the time of the parliamentary group, you have the time as head of the parliamentary group. You could have talked about what you said you were in the O.R. at the time of the debate. At this point, I cannot give you a word on that basis, and as head of the parliamentary group you can speak by amendment, at this point, to Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Please speak according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9341	As representative of the PUPS Group, I will say that we will not accept and vote in favour of this amendment, that we are against it. I, as someone who is not qualified enough to be the director of the Post Office of Serbia, because according to some MPs, I do not meet the conditions, which is incorrect, which is a lie spoken here publicly, in front of everyone, that I have not been to the competition. Competition for V.D. It doesn't exist. That I'm employed in three jobs and that... No, I'm just saying that as someone who doesn't have it, I have the right to say for what reason we won't accept it. So, as someone who hasn't been a member of the Programme Committee for a year and a half, I think the MPs would still have to, at least those who try to stand out, know that. The PUPS MP group never, because we've been raised very well, decent people, never brings up the truth. We will not support this amendment, because we feel that it is not in line with the attitudes we defend.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9342	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9343	Member of the 106th, Mr. Chairman. Please simply, we are obliged to talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. I know the lady wasn't in the O.R. and she doesn't know what the amendment is. She misused reporting by amendment and spoke a replica of an exhibition that took place about 25 minutes ago. She saw it probably, so she ran from the post office here to pick up the word. Mr. Milicevic, I think it's clear to all of us in the hall that PUPS is not serious and let us not pay attention to such insignificant phenomena, because who cares more about PUPS. I don't think SNS is interested in PUPS either.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9344	Please, now you're already in the debate again and you're trying to hurt the Rules of Procedure to use in terms of replication to a colleague, head of the PUPS Group. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. And, and whoever you've noticed, I've been trying to tell my colleague that I'm still talking about what's a part of the agenda. (Mira Petrovic, from town: Replica. Do you want to follow the amendment? You can't have a replica of a specified breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can get a word on the amendment, and you can't get a replica, because if you want to report from your colleague Srdjan Nogo's statement, he just pointed to a violation of Rule 106, and I can't give you a reported violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't have a basis for that. (Mira Petrovic, from the post: After the amendment. ) By amendment yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9345	I'm sorry, but speaking of article 9 and the amendment you submitted, I said we wouldn't vote. That's what the gentleman pointed out to be a mistake, and he very negatively expressed himself about my party. Of course, I have to react to that. That which is minor here and who is inescapable will show the next election. You know very well how you entered this House. Financed and supported from the outside. You would never have ended up in this House if you'd fought alone. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Who? You from the balcony, you from the threat, you from the pushing, you from the bullying into this congregation. I don't allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9346	I'm going to have to interrupt you, Mrs. Petorvić, with all due respect and respect both of you and the MP groups. With all due respect and respect, I repeat, both you and the PUPS parliamentary groups, I repeat, you have received word by amendment to article 9, which was received by MP Srdjan Nogo. It really has absolutely nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9347	Pointing to your mistake, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP said that we, PUPS, are a minor party, a non-essential party. If you think it's not a non-serious party, if you think it's not an insult, then why didn't you react? I'm sorry, you can't let anyone say such things, and I, as head of the parliamentary group, can't protect my parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9348	Of course you can, it's your...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9349	I tell you, every time you go out to the polls, especially by acting like this... (Bosko Obradović, from town: Who? You. You from your group's MPs, so you're the only one here who's inappropriate. The only one. You're going to have a bad time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9350	Thank you. Mrs Petrovic, it is legitimate for you to protect the parliamentary group, as head of the PUPS parliamentary group. Please do so in future in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since you have spoken according to the amendment and have mentioned the Dveri parliamentary group, the right to the replica now has the head of the Dveri parliamentary group, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You have restored my faith in your presidency to the home of the National Assembly. This is really very correct of you. You give the opposition a chance to hear it. So, Mrs Petrovic, there is no reason on the phone to get instructions from Milan Krkobic, what he will say in this debate. It is certain that the PUPS parliamentary group can participate in dialogue with the Dwyri. So, it's known that PUPS has nothing to do with pensioners, but it's one interested group that is the false protector of pensioners. It is known that since they started representing pensioners, pensioners have reduced pensions by 10% and a regulation has been abolished by which they have had a harmonisation of pension rates with cost of life. It is also known that they have supported all governments so far that have ruined Serbia. So there was no government that ruined Serbia without the PUPS contributing. So it's not fair to always accuse the DS or SNS that they're all guilty. I never want to forget that the same guilt was shared with them by the one who supported them for the ruling majority, and that was always infallible. He was, of course, compensated for it. The compensation was a directorial place for one or the other, perhaps in the future of the third Krkobibic. The compensation was also a ministerial post in the fictional ministry, without portfolios, and was also a compensation to the PUPS and this fake directorial post, without any public competition, without a college degree, from the post of secretary Milan Krkobbic as director of Post. It's called a party-parasitic system. It's called a robbery of this country. It's called taking money out of public enterprises into party hands. It is called appointed party directors, party employment and the robbery of Serbian citizens through the party-parasitic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9352	Thank you. Time, Mr. Radovic. Mrs. Petrovic, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9353	I love that you've become so boldly brave, but before that, you've had to have it written. So if I may have your attention, I've listened to what you've said. I've never been a secretary, but I think it's offensive for all of Serbia's secretaries what you're saying. Without a good secretary, absolutely none of us could work. On the other hand, I just told you, but that's your ignorance of things and that's the problem, Dverry. You know, you don't know the point, V.D. He's not going to the competition. There's just gonna be a contest coming up, but I'm gonna come back to you now. I'm gonna go back to PUPS and I'm gonna go back to who was ruining this country. You have entered this House if I am not mistaken, with the DSS. I'll tell you something, the worst period in Serbia's history has been since the DSS was in power. You're with them here in the coalition together. How did you get in here? Then pensions were reduced to a terrible 49%. It was literally a pensioner genocide. At the time, Minister Lalovic said he did not expect so much to fall... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Then we raised pensions unjustly. Make a deal. I'd like you to take your word whenever you want. I'll be back. It's not true that I attacked the DSS. I will tell you that at their time and when Ceda Jovanovic was with them, pensions were 71% and we tend to do so. But unlike you, who are always hiding behind someone, behind some of the foreign forces that are introducing you here, we've never been in hiding. It's true that we've supported a pension reduction right now, but it's not exactly what you said, which you're deliberately saying, notor lie, 70% of the pensioners didn't feel pension cuts, 30% of all the bills can't be all pensioners... . The President of Time. Thank you. I'm not finished. I've got time for a parliamentary group. You were entitled to a replica, two minutes are scheduled for replication. Now that we're too far away from the subject, we're going to take a five-minute break from Article 112 to get back on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9355	Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Zoran Krasic, MPs Vladimir Đurić, joint MPs Dejan Škulić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and joint MPs Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9356	I have submitted an amendment to the 10th Chairman, which, by means of a test method, derogates certain members of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. For 2017, an exception is provided for the promotion of civil servants and officials, the exception that the funds are not planned to advance to higher rankings based on the results achieved. With a call for Articles 16 and 48 of Article 4 of the same law, of which Article 16 guarantees the right to a reward for the results achieved, while Article 48(4) states that the Budget Law determines the percentage of the allocation in that financial year. So, since there's an exception here for 2017 that the funds are not allocated, it means that the allocation is zero, so I'm asking the government -- how is it possible that none of the civil servants and tenants will make progress and earn on the basis of the results achieved to advance in the higher rankings or that you will provide the funds and that it will be as for the jubilee awards two or three years ago when the minister was Mr. Zarko Obradovic for the employees of the education when local self-government received the order not to pay jubilee rewards, so after the pressure of the union representatives of the jubilee award, we had to pay as local self-government to pay off at the end of one budget year in two years. The question arises – what are the savings and the contribution of workers who will make progress on the basis of the results, on the basis of the law they are entitled to progress, what is the savings and how much do they contribute to macroeconomic stability or to the coverage of the 2017 budget deficit?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9357	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9358	Thank you. The draft budget law in Article 10, which we propose to delete, states that the resources for the work of civil servants and deputies are not foreseen for rewarding the labour effect. We have therefore suggested that this member be deleted, as some fellow MPs have also suggested. In light of why the amendment is not accepted, the government has stated that Article 48. The law on salaries of civil servants and deputies prescribes that the Budget Law defines the percentage to be spent for this purpose. We realize that the government then predicted zero percent. Also, Article 48(1) explicitly states – the substitute has the right to add to the results achieved. So it's a provision of imperative character. So we realize that the government, essentially, the Budget Law, has entered into collegiate with the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. In fact, we want this amendment to support the legislation of the prescribed rights of civil servants and deputies, who, as men of the profession, honorably do their job in order to be legally rewarded for quality work, so that the system of assessment of the labour performance of these people is less devised and to preserve the principle of promotion and award based on quality, not party membership and obedience. We would like to say that these people are no longer obliged from their pockets and on the burden of reward for their quality work to bear the consequences of the government's unpreparedness to carry out real reforms in the public sector and to free these people from the burden-provided part-installed management profession. If there are no funds in the budget, then there are no funds, because RTB Bor is not truly reformed, because there is the same management that drove the company to UPPR despite previous investments after which the loss was made, and now again with two and a half billion, they appear in the budget to spend budget money, and there is no money to reward quality workers. Release the public sector of party personnel and the money for the award of high-quality state employees will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9359	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9360	Thank you. We have submitted this amendment to Article 10, which says that – extremely in 2017 no funds were planned for the promotion of civil servants in the higher pay grade, etc. Now it says – no funds are currently planned, which does not mean that it may not be, so we have requested, or submitted an amendment saying – if the conditions on the website of the Ministry of Finance are changed during the implementation of the budget, information will be published on the planned funds for the advancement of state officials in the higher pay grade, etc. This is what we wanted to make the government's work transparent, or since we are constantly talking about how we should use Serbian words – transparent or transparent, which means that every citizen, not just us who discuss it, not just anyone who is concerned, but every citizen who wants to see how these funds are distributed can see this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9361	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs Verica Rada and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9362	In this bill you have several members that are absolutely unnecessary, first of all because what you have predicted in these articles is already normised, regulated by some other laws, and the Budget Act cannot in any way alter other material and legal regulations. One such member is Article 11, whose erasure we have proposed. This Article 11 speaks of commitments towards beneficiaries of budgetary resources in the way they are proportionately implemented, so what happens if the beneficiaries of the budget do not make revenue and income, whether priorities will be determined, etc. Then you say, among other things, that you cannot accept the amendment because these articles specify the rules for the use of appropriations from other sources of funding and by accepting this amendment, you could imagine that the stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget could be compromised. This is really something that has nothing to do with logic and above all, it's absolutely incorrect. What you wrote, and especially what you predicted to this Article 11, actually predicts, if it were not to be filled with the budget in the way it was intended, to come to some disproportionateness, etc., you would have to propose a rebalancing here. Then we'd be talking about rebalancing, not what's written in this budget. This actually associates that you, and we probably don't have a draft budget law, because you're obviously doing what you think you're doing. It's missing here, you take it from there, there's not enough here, you put it there. You're obviously changing both appraisals and divisions, etc. That's another reason that it's high time you gave us the final bill, the final budget bill, and then we'll be able to talk relevantly about everything that you've done here very suspiciously in article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9363	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9364	Before I start, first of all, I thank all those who have carefully read this and made remarks. Secondly, I ask you to leave room for an answer in your questions and do not qualify some if you do not have strong arguments. There's nothing suspicious about this article here. This member is trying to comply with procedures that exist both in the Budgetary System Act and elsewhere in the world. So, in other words, if some member is scheduled, for example, to use the resources from the budget's source 01, and then someone added -- so they use grant funds, so they use credit funds, we say, if someone denied you a grant, you have no right to turn around and spend funds from the budget. If something is planned for certain proportions, it must be realized in these proportions. This is what we're looking for right now, what you're implying is that we have the results of budget implementation. We are precisely ensuring that there has to be discipline in budgeting, which is just as planned by the budget. That's why there are sources of funding, that's why they're being deployed to individual categories, that now they know exactly what we're planning and what sources we're from. As a creditor can't finance salaries and these other things financed from source one, so they can't finance other sizes from general budget revenues. The same applies to own revenue and all other sources of funding. Therefore, this is necessary, this Article 11 is necessary in order to comply with these rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9365	Thank you. By amendment, my colleague Radeta? (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: then nothing, thank you.) Does anyone else want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together on the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, MP Radoslav Milojic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9366	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know what this moat serves from across the street whenever I answer a word or someone from the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9367	Proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9368	Let's get back to the amendment. We suggest that this article be deleted in the formulation in paragraph 3. We suggest erasing because it is unnecessary, because the Budgetary System Act has just defined the problem of not implementing the budget. Also, I want to see the final bill that was supposed to be in front of us. But this amendment, if you adopt it, you will show whether you respect the law or do not respect the law. If you respect the law, since there is no need for this member to stand, and then you accept our amendment, which we have said in the wording in paragraph 3, that it is absolutely unnecessary to find this position and therefore we propose to delete, then you will prove that you respect the law. If you don't respect the law, as you don't respect it around illegal cottages, does your candidate, Mr. Sojimirovic... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I don't know why you took my word when I have two minutes.) [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9369	I didn't take your word, I turned off your microphone so I wouldn't take your word. (National MP Radoslav Milojic throws out of place. No, the first minute was an explanation of the amendment, everything else was gone. Request word again, you have about 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9370	Mr. Arsic, thank you. I just said that the formulation in paragraph 3 is completely unnecessary and that is why I explained why we have submitted this amendment, because the Budget System Law defines the problem of not implementing the budget. I said that on the basis of this amendment, you would show whether the SNS, i.e. The ruling majority respect the law. If you respect the law, you will accept this amendment, no matter what comes from the Democratic Party. I compared that to the fact that you don't respect the house rules and asked Mr Stoimirovic if it was because Mr... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9371	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9372	I respect your findings. As I said two minutes ago that it was transferred from the Budgetary System Act, I respect that. We repeat this not by accident, but on purpose. We want to turn this thing up. I don't see how we break the law by strengthening what the law says. Just explain it to me. It's been repeated twice here -- it doesn't cancel out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9373	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the amendment be rejected, of course, from that argument that the Government also provided us, and especially one sentence that is characteristic and I call on the Proposer to read that sentence again in the explanation. By accepting this amendment, stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget could be compromised. To me, this is a very clear signal that this amendment should be rejected. However, I understand that the proposer of this amendment is not interested in the stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget. He proved it in practice. He proved it on several examples, when only in one transaction damaged that budget of local self-government by 14 million dinars, and we have been here several times presenting other details from which we could see how it relates to the budget. For this reason, I hope that his party and Mr. Amendment Proposer will never be able to worry and manage the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because in that case there would be no stone left on the stone of the budget. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9375	Based on what replica? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You heard everything he said to me.) What did he tell you? Wait, the first word has a National MP, Ljubisa Stoimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9376	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I may not have considered answering this amendment, but I will answer the question asked by my colleague Milojic. First, there was an MP here who had these amendments all the time - deleted. I said in the last term – don’t overdo it, someone can delete you so you won’t be in the congregation anymore. Now, that's what's going to happen to your colleagues most likely. As for Tomislav Nikolic and his candidacy, whoever stands against him on your side, will lose, do not worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9377	Right on the line, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9378	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Can I now answer Mr. Markovic after he first called me, and then to Mr. Stojmirovic, after he called me? Do I have the right to two replicas?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9379	You have no right to two replicas. You're a very skilled messenger, you'll answer both, I believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9380	Thank you. Mr Markovic, as the SNS cares about Serbian citizens, we can see in Bačka Topoli where it invites citizens to come to the enhanced beans on Friday 4 December 2016, all those hungry citizens. Well, is that food for all citizens? Is this a better future that you promised the citizens of Serbia 2012, 2013, 2015, 2016 and 2017? Well, in the five years you've been in power, you've ruined the country and I congratulate you because no one has been able to do it in such a short time. You owe us ten billion euros, you cut our salaries, you cut our pensions. A country where the military is being striked and the police are not called a country that is going in the right direction. Here, we also have a request and an appeal from IMT workers who have been strikein' for six months, strikein' six months for IMT workers, demand an annulment of illegal bankruptcy and relaunching production. Everything you touch is illegal. If you work legally, arrest the criminal Zvonko Veseninović. I've been asking you this for the 15th time. How do you respect the law? All the criminals you're talking about are at large. Well, you've just won the most convincing victory in all the elections in prison. You've just been made in prisons by the SNS because you're the same as those who vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9381	Alexander Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9382	Thank you. The last person in this House who has the right to respect anything is just the previous speaker. So he who, we heard, made three billion minuses his local self-government. But I'm not just talking about the Smederian Palanca. We have several examples of haughtiness and thieving in Smederjevska Palanca here. Here, I'll just mention his friends and his colleagues from his party who until a few months ago managed the Vrachar municipality. Saldo after their management of Vračar municipality is that half the property is missing, people, half the property, 70 apartments, thousands of squares of business space, 5,354 squares of the Vrakar business space is gone, deleted, as if it never existed. Now, that's their government's balance on Vracar, his colleagues, 70 apartments, 782 million dinars. Not to mention other institutions and public enterprises whose founder is the Municipality of Vrachar. The Vračar Sports Centre, and there are 32 million minuses, business space – we have already said, "Dividarac", an institution of culture that you have destroyed, liquidated. So wherever the Democratic Party managed anything we only had after the robbery, we had a robbery and we had missing assets, missing squares, missing bars, missing assets. That's why I think the previous speaker is the last person who can worship anyone at all, let alone some thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9383	The party's right to replicate the party has a MP named Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9384	Thank you very much. I can only agree first with the allegations of colleagues Markovic that some here are definitely the last to deal with certain topics. Two, I want to thank you for the extra opportunity for the replica. It's always, as you know, a great pleasure to sort some things out here. All that some here say or as they themselves say – "who stand out", that is how it was, they deserve a little comment. It is unusual that the issue of production in the country should be raised to the Serbian Progressive Party. It is so unusual that thanks to the measures carried out by the Serbian Progressive Party, the government that the party supports, we have a tenth by tens of thousands, so the order of hundreds of thousands, new jobs in this country, on the subject of production. It is so much more unusual that these estimates come from those who have ruined hundreds of thousands of jobs in this country. That's not what I'm saying, and no one should trust me on the word, there are relevant reports and statistics of institutions that are competent to do so. If anyone ever wants to talk about numbers, we can have no problem, on the contrary, great pleasure. It is unusual for the military and police to be mentioned by those whose representatives, representatives, I don't know what come to them, there have been some diverse governments, I can no longer send out who is in what position personally responsible for 200 million damages in a solid foreign currency, precisely according to military pensioners, and which is exactly what we are solving and the government supported by the Serbian Progressive Party. It's unusual that someone who's like a folk MP, along with everything that we've exchanged from digits and data in this room, still cannot be calculated, so he mentions some ten billion of some kind of debt, even though it's a very simple verifiable math. But it's not unusual for some to be fascinated by the notion of prison. It's the only thing in place, when it comes to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9385	Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9386	We can make it clear, measure how the government worked from 2008 to 2012, and how your devastating government, the Serbian Progressive Party Government, is now working from 2012 to 2016. The government between 2008 and 2012, led by the Democratic Party with the SPS, which you are now in the coalition, increased salaries, increased pensions, subsidies for agriculture were 14,000 dinars and we had assistants to help people who deal with agriculture. I think 1,200 assistants, here, Minister Nedimovic is here, who got fired as soon as you came to power, we gave subsidies to the first apartment, we built 30 kindergartens, 20 health homes in Belgrade, and bridges and all other infrastructure projects that I don't talk about. What the Democratic Party has done at the Ministry of Defence, building 5,000 apartments for military pensioners and military users, ending the Morava Airport, building a South military base where our soldiers are now trained for multinational operations, you can't even paint it. But I see that you have called for the help of the police minister, that he will now help you in this debate, and the only honest promoter is Aleksandar Martinovic, I congratulate him on this occasion, who said on July 17th 2012, that the Serbian Progressive Party is a mob organization...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9387	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I don't know why you turned off my microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9388	Thanks again. So this is based on the mention of the Serbian Progressive Party, and interestingly, though not unusually, that we had the mention of the president of the parliamentary group of Dr Martinovic. It is not unusual, for only one reason – that some here have enough courage to mention it only when it comes out because of obligations related to the Committee. Only then. So, that was completely expected and congratulations on the courage and the improvement of courage by some, we don't know which, or their name I don't know, so I couldn't even mention it, even if I wanted to. As for the 2008-2012 achievement, I don't know who to congratulate, whether a stranger or an individual, I really don't know. But let's put a common card on these phenomenal results. Source of the Official Bureau of Statistics 2008 – number of employees 2,821,724, year 2012, same source – 2.228,343. The difference comes to him more than that statistics that some people don't like, which is also fine by hundreds of thousands. Here comes six hundred thousand. I don't know who, but as soon as we do, I suggest we all send one big, hearty card together. As for the issues that have been raised, built, raised, and God knows, I can really agree on that. We cannot turn that around because, as is known, physics does not allow air and empty space to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9389	On what grounds? On what basis, replica? [[Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Please, replica.]] He didn't mention you at all, not at any time. He didn't mention you at any time. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Please let us finish, just for a moment. We are done according to this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 11th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A similar amendment is in the spirit of an amendment also proposed by the opposition and the idea was for the Ministry of Finance to be obliged to publish the monthly budget implementation on its internet presentation every month before the end of the month for the previous month. We've been given an explanation that these reports, twice a year, are being handed over to the government, and that the government should then conduct the National Assembly. Our idea was, in fact, that the scope and content of these reports was determined, by Mr. Minister himself, who in his report, when he talked about budget formation, stated that it was day and night, if he had had had a big team, we believe that if he had determined the scope of the report himself, it wouldn't be controversial, and that would otherwise fit that story, which is very often, these days, mentioned, that we haven't received a final account at the end of the year. As far as it would be done at the monthly level, no problem would be pooled if we got that report at the end of the year. In fact, it would allow the report to be easier and brought forward. Otherwise, whether it's transparent or transparent, or transparent. It is something officially declared by the SNS, and it may be one of the few places where the Serbian Dvori Movement agrees with the SNS. Come on, let's really see this, because all of us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we Members of the People, as their representatives, are filling the budget, and I think it's quite logical that we be, as far as we're concerned, directed in the way that this budget is being implemented. If we don't know, we'll hire those who know to explain it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9391	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9392	I can't agree with the ministry's response, because I really think that if there's no reason to hide the data and if they don't have anything to hide from the citizens of Serbia, why don't we go out and why don't we, like this amendment I've submitted, publish budget spending data on the Ministry's website, whether it's easy for laymen, ordinary people, to understand or not understand. If I, as a People's MP, and all of us, as 250 MPs, can't get that data, because we can't get a final account, because the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't provide us with reports on budget spending, how can we discuss the budget at all today and how we can vote for the budget. It's logical if we adopt an act, a draft budget, it's only one half, we need a final account, or we need to see how it's being spent, what the practice of spending money, to have one whole picture on that basis. I am really worried about spending money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because if we know, let's say 15 billion are taken on electricity, 22 billion are being taken away from public sector employees, so let's say in the ministry of Mr. Stefanovic, police, are announcing a strike, and Mr. Djordjevic's ministry, which is why they announce a strike, because they're really miserablely paid. At Mr. Sarčević's, we heard, at the Ministry of Education, that educational workers were paid below average, and their educational status is far above the republican average, because mahogany is done by people with university diplomas, by a large majority in education. We really need to see how these funds are spent, because it's really a big, big mistrust, because from the very proposings of this budget we've heard that what it says in the budget is not true. Well, even though the company “Endeva” stands, we have heard that they will not be provided with funds. Eleven billion dinars you owe and invest in foreign investments. Otherwise, you plan to put us in charge of 850 billion, in order to naturally refinance, will not increase that by so much foreign debt, but Serbian citizens must know these figures and figures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9393	Thank you. Right to the replica of Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9394	Truth be told, there are 26 unions in the MUP. And, so, depending on which union it fits, which political party fits, as it matches those who cooperate with any of the unions, this union is represented in the media because it said this, this union said that. Not all of them are equal by the number of members they have in the MUP, but none of the 26 including the two representative unions have announced a strike. None of the unions. They announced Sunday's protest to be held. I didn't understand best why the moment we increased the salaries to police officers of 5% and when they would receive a gross of 50 to 100 dinars on an annual basis. So one large number of people are going to get one full salary at an annual level relative to what they're getting. One part of the people got new uniforms after years of not getting new uniforms. Modernized, armored vehicles that were in really bad shape. They'll get one piece of new patrol vehicles, one part next week, one part in the next period, and we're working on raising the standard of people working in the police. Of course, in accordance with the economic powers of the country. Would we all like to increase so much more, so much more. Of course, but in the period when we were in debt to raise someone's salary, and then in a few years we came down to billions of euros, today we do it from real sources. I've talked to all the police, I think it's important that they understand that what we're doing right now, we're working on long paths. They asked for a one-time payment. We offered to raise the salary. A much bigger salary increase for these people than a one-time payoff would be easier for the government to make 20,000 dinars. They get a lot more here than 50 to 100 grand a year, and I think it's important that people know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9395	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9396	I would just like to make a brief note of the proposal contained in the amendment relating to Article 11. So, as stated in the reasoning, we are already giving the Republic, or the Republic Government reports, six months of reports as defined by the Budget System Act. Besides, as far as I know, and I haven't checked personally, I have to admit, on the e-parliament, you have monthly data on budget implementation. So, you should check that out. As far as the Internet is concerned, that's what you're looking for here, we don't mind, because if we report to parliament, we can report everything, but we have to make sure it's in accordance with the laws. So we have to ensure that it is defined exactly what is given, in which format and which is available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9397	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9398	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not want to doubt at all the good intentions of the proposer of this amendment and its desire for all data to be more visible to the citizens of Serbia, or better accessible. But since the ministry and representatives of the government say and at this point it is not in accordance with the law and that it is not possible, there is no possibility of accepting this amendment, but I believe that something like this or something will be accepted in the future. There's one more thing I'd like to say, about that recommendation I gave a little while ago, and I'm standing behind it that we should use our words, our letters, our language. And whoever disbelieves in me, let him read the Verses of the tongue and the letter of Stephen Nemanja, and he will see everything in it. It's not a big text, one side. The moment we lose the language and the letter and our words, we lose everything, we don't need the military force, we don't need anyone to attack us, we surrender ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9399	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9400	Thank you. Although my amendments are completely different, the government has given almost the same explanation as the amendment to Article 9. In my amendment, I asked that all commitments made to the beneficiaries of the budgets be published at the monthly level at the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance, in a way that will be made by the 10th day of the month at the latest each month, and for the previous month, the Ministry of Finance will announce exactly how much budgets have been achieved in proportion to the revenue and revenue received from the budget. In an explanation, the government points out that the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia cannot define the Ministry of Finance's obligation to publish on the ministry's internet presentation of how much budgets have been implemented in proportion to the revenues and receipts of budgets. It is further argued that it is in accordance with Article 76. The budget system law, among other things, requires the minister to inform the government at least twice a year about the implementation of the budget. In my amendment, I didn't question this. What I was looking for is that the public at every moment on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance can look at how much budgets have been made in relatively achieved revenue and budget receipts. The ministry's relationship with the government is one thing, and it is quite another that the public, or any citizen of this country, can get acquainted with this data. That's two completely different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9401	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9402	All of our amendments from Article 9 above all aim to remind you that our budget laws and the Budgetary System Act, those who wrote, wrote by system -- I have 126 votes, so I can put whatever I want into those two laws. That's why the laws look like this. But just to get your attention, that's not the biggest problem. We also have an item, he says, – income from profit cuts in the public sector. It's that Youth dialectic. He says to increase consumption, and what we're going to spend, we're going to spend what we don't have. Then the others replace him, and they say, "We should go to the savings." Well, what are we going to save, what are we going to save from? To save from what we don't have. The message is nothing. We have a real budget item, it says – income from a reduction in the public sector. That's what a normal man would think, get out of here and move here. But there's nothing to take. That's the story, that's that math school and the view of the economy. But there are more interesting things here. You see, for civil servants, we pay taxes on personal income. The state pays its own taxes. Interesting thing. We also pay for civil servants, and the state is guaranteed. So the state pays itself. Why? To equate with the real sector, with the private sector to be taken. There are other interesting things like that. Then we have an interesting thing, trade unions and businesses talk about the lowest price of work per hour, but when you come to state officials, then there's no price, but it's the basis for the reckoning, so they have a basis for calculating 26,000, and these poor people's hours at 102 dinars, what time was it? I think it is in line with the World Bank's standards to pass a regulation, so to say – the hours are so much and so much, for full-time it is so much and so much, for all of these who do a little more complex jobs, we only increase the coefficients and every year we just change the basis for one-hour reckoning. But they're not going to do it, they're just trying to do something else. They're not going to do it, they're going to want something else to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're not going to do it, they're not going If this system worked, then we wouldn't be changing our regulations for the next 20 years after we brought it here and not here. How about 126, E, we'll put it in the budget. How about 126, we'll get into the budget system. And when you start with some normal discussion, as it should be, you run straight out the mathematician and explain and eventually they're overplaying, and they tell us that 100 is a lot bigger than 120. Now, that's the problem with our regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9403	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9404	With all due respect, I don't think you've read this article the way it's imagined, or we've made a mistake in the formulation, since we haven't changed anything here, I'm guessing the more question is how you're experiencing it. Here it writes literally – the beneficiary of the budget, which certain expenditure and expenditure is executed from other sources, means, when not only from the budget, it is not only 0.1, but some grants, own receipts, loans, obligations can only be made to the level of achievement. So, if you, say, had 100 out of the budget, and 100 out of your own income and we say -- you can't be in debt 100 plus 100 if you make less than your own revenues than 100, you just can't say you can't do it based on projections and promises to be in debt. We guarantee the part that's from the budget, but we say, you mustn't put more burden on the budget than you have. Therefore, it says – only up to the level of performance of these incomes or incomes if the level of revenue achieved or receipts is less than the appraisal. So if we've said 100 plus 100 in this simple case and you've already achieved 100 and gone to 120, no problem, but if you're doing less than you've planned, you have no right to take responsibility, because you're going to pass it on to us. We protect the budget, nothing else. That's the point of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9405	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9406	I don't think the World Bank expert understood what this was about. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: I am not an expert in the World Bank. Well, an expert in Ukrainian, you've been there for ten years. Okay. You didn't get that right. Since there's been a member like this in our budgets, do you know? Since 2005, 2006, 2008, 2011, 2012, 2013? You don't know. You don't know, and you're giving us lectures. (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: I do not lecture you. Listen to me further. Why is there not all possible rules in the Budgetary System Act for emergency situations and for higher revenues and for less revenue in the budget, but to bring them in like this? (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: Be careful what you say! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9407	Mr. Minister, please wait...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9408	You bring them in like this. And what are you doing this way? (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: You abuse a pay phone! You have no right to do that! Wait, who's running the session? Arsic, are you running a session or a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9409	I'm in charge of the session. Mr. Minister, please let your colleague Krasic finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9410	You see, he won't let me talk. (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: You insult me! You insult me, too. You insult all citizens of the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9411	Five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with our work. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: How much do I have left? I'll give you, Mr. Krassic, another minute that's left over from your replica. I kept an eye out for another minute. Just a minute for the replica you had. I would ask all MPs and ministers, we have been working for a long time, a little nervous at large, to allow this session to be completed and not to undermine Parliament's reputation. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, another minute, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9413	I'm very nice with nerves, you know. Please, I repeat, what it's like to be formed which most of them then came to terms of ability, mind solutions, and we've got these omnibus laws where everything and everything is, some rules are prescribed, instead of solving it by system regulation, such as the Budget System Act. And there are some rules there. If the public debt is greater than 45%, then the state of emergency is entered, emergency programs. Please, and the principle can be spent as much as it is. First he commits the government to provide as much as possible, and here he doesn't. Some fairy tales tell us here, and we end up seeing bad things. That's why we've submitted an amendment to get it cleaned up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9414	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that the atmosphere has calmed down and I, reading now this amendment, thought that this was the government of the Democratic Party, since more than half of these ministers, Mr Knezevic, Nedimovic, Vujovic, were directly and indirectly in the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9416	Proceed to the amendment, Mr. Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9417	We suggest erasing Article 12 of Article 1 because it is in Article 56. The law on the budgetary system defines the procedure for taking on commitments greater than the planned appraisals. I hope you'll erase this amendment. It is not really clear to me, up to the 300 amendments proposed by the opposition, that no amendment is good enough to be accepted. It's the same situation as in the billing, the DS has over 15 amendments and additions to the law, and none are good enough. Please do not look at who proposed this law, i.e. Amendments to Article 12(1) whether it is DS or another opposition party, but if it is compatible with your policy to do so and to delete this member. I'm sorry the minister got upset a little while ago. In these two days, he has indeed responded adequately and correctly to the proposals both for amendments both in the debate and in principle. Of course, we've all been here for a long time, I'm really asking everyone, but of course the minister doesn't have the right to treat the MPs. I hope the MPs didn't do anything to apologize by the MPs. This is our home, home of MPs in the National Assembly, not the Government and not the place where ministers need us to determine what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9418	We've solved that problem, Mr. Milojic. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9419	Thank you. With my amendment, I asked that direct beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, before announcing new commitments in a manner prescribed by the position of the 1st member in the budget implementation system, are obliged to apply, rather than the commitments made from the previous financial year and the same publication at the monthly level at its internet presentation. Also, every month and no later than the fifth day of the current month, and for the previous month, indirect beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget will report commitments rather than commitments made from the previous financial year. In his explanation, the proposer states that the already prescribed obligation for direct beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budgets is to apply for the budget implementation system before the announcement of new commitments, that the applications made by the unfulfilled commitments of the previous year, which makes it incomplete and not consistent to prescribe the obligation to publish applications not made in the previous financial year on their internet presentation. To clarify, I insisted that every month, and for the previous month, the commitments made from the previous financial year are announced, rather than the total commitments not made in the previous year, as stated in the proposal's explanation. They're simply not the same things and suggestions, so the explanation itself is not good and it's not even clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9420	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9421	Let me just distract you. Is it possible that the 2017 Budget Law should contain a provision in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia says loudly, clearly – we do not trust our own in local self-government? This is how it says - except for the position of the 3rd member, unless the local self-government unit provides in the budget and transfers funds to primary and secondary schools to finance expenditure in accordance with the law, etc., etc. How is it possible in one legal system that these things are regulated by the Budget Law without being regulated by the relevant legal regulations, particularly on education, on funding of local self-government, on the competences of local self-government, etc.? Please, what are you putting into law? It's just that you don't even put coal on, though, and renovating the council, etc. This isn't working, people, this is the Budget Law. Look at the Budget System Act. It's exactly what the Budget Law must contain. The general part, the special part, the financing bill. Why are you building these things? Why don't you take care of it systemically? Are you going to solve this every year? You called that man that he had 16 public enterprises. How many Kovačica public enterprises are there? You don't know. Ten. And what about one of the Squires? There's only one public utility company and it works fantasticly. Why don't you take that example, so spread it to all the local self-governments except the cities? You won't be systemically solving. You'd do it if you could do it in the fog, crowd.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9422	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9423	I agree that there are some good examples to be dealt with systemically, but in practice there are local self-governments that respect certain rules and some that do not. This applies to those administrations that get dedicated money. I speak when schools are, say, the transportation of workers, as a category. It happens they don't pay off, and then the lawsuits start, then much more damage is done. There are dozens of these cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9424	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9425	Thank you. We propose that this Article 14 be deleted because it is inapplicable in a situation where cities and municipalities in Serbia are deprived of the funds that you have subtracted by reducing the amount of income tax on local self-governments, and on the other hand you give yourself the right to give orders to cities and municipalities what they will pay first. You say, they will settle the fixed costs, the costs of current repairs, maintenance and materials, and as regards the costs of capital investments and other expenditures, they will have to pay in accordance with the Budget Law, or in accordance with the rules where RINO defined payment deadlines. You now have a situation that a large number of cities and municipalities in the previous period and previous years had blocked accounts of schools and other institutions, because they are unable to provide regular functioning and funding of funds to be financed from local budgets. So, the practice continues to be that cities and municipalities are being taken, on the other hand they are being given higher powers, and you want to tell these members now what they are going to spend these funds on. So, completely this member loses its meaning and I think that, first of all, you should think about how to help cities and municipalities, not take away 4.8 billion of them through tax cuts. Transfer funds are the same back several years, both for you cities and municipalities, as well as for the citizens of Serbia, to fund a budget deficit, instead of financing it at the expense of public sector workers, and the MUP, and the Military and Health Services, and all other sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9426	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9427	I mean from experience so far, you know very well, but the reason why you want to delete this member is probably just to try once again to make the untruths about transferring funds to local self-government. What the government has persistently insisted in the previous period is that local self-government for dedicated transfers must file an account, and that is what it is, in fact, an idea. It is very important to establish the rules of the game. You know that, you were the president of the municipality. You remember some time from 10, 15 years ago when on the basis of only one request on the A4 form you could get funds and perhaps never justify them. The whole story isn't about that. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: He can do it now.) That can't go on right now, you know that better than I do, maybe, and you know as much as I do. If nothing else, at least I've been doing this job for eight years, and I know how the financial control system in local self-government developed. The essence of the whole story, with dedicated transfers, there must be a system of control, there must be justification for the means so that we can protect the funds most effectively. I think this is just one of those amendments where you're just trying to potentiate things that don't stand. As far as the local self-government funding system itself is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9428	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9429	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: Replica. Just for a little while. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9430	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Alexic, only from the time of the deputy. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: Just a short one. There's no need. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9431	Thank you, Chairman. It is common practice that local self-governments do not meet obligations, including primary and secondary schools, and I think that Mr. Minister, last year there were over 100 schools that did not settle obligations. However, in favour of protecting local self-government, I was the president of the municipality in three terms, not once late in meeting obligations, but it is not the hierarchy of local self-government to refuse to settle obligations towards primary and secondary schools, therefore, it is due to some circumstances. By putting up with this amendment, I'm just initiating that we're talking about the causes, that we're looking for the reasons why this is happening. So the causes are objective, by nature. Local self-governments with money, as well as the country that cobbles. On the other hand, local self-government also cours with the state, because some 4.8 billion dinars were denied, relocated, redistributed several months ago. These are all the circumstances affecting the work of local self-government. But there are subjective reasons. I only appeal that in the budget, it is more perhaps for the finance minister, in any case, that other beneficiaries of the budget should be sanctioned in this way. You have an example of the Great Plan, where the Great Plan, with the power of pressure of party officials from the Ministry, has calmed four million obligations to party colleagues in the Great Plan, for which it was not obliged. So it's a verdict on which primary school was obliged to pay. Please and I urge you to reconsider this case, and that the Great Plan, if not with the return of funds, at least with the 3.5, four million, through the support of some kind of programme activity, be compensated somehow. So, I'm not taking responsibility, I'm not calling anyone, I'm just trying to make sure there's a budget redistribution here right now, that the council of the Great Plan, if at some point she's stuck with the Ministry, has settled something that the Ministry couldn't at some point. But what am I looking for? I'm asking you to reconsider hiring more...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9432	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9433	Several dozen newly employed without commission approval, which endangers the liquidity of the Great Plan Municipality, and now... (Dejan Šulkić, from the place:... [[Disabled microphone.]] And now the salary in the administration is growing. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9434	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the MPs Gordana Comić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vuković and Vesna Marjanović and MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9435	Thank you, Vice President. I would agree with members of the government who have said that certain local self-governments do not meet their obligations, in the end, these are in most cases your people, you know who you're dealing with, not exactly some people who respect the law and abide by the procedure, at least the citizens know best. However, there is a problem in formulating how the minister, responsible for finance affairs, sanctions local self-governments acting in such an illegal manner towards the funds they have received for certain purposes. According to the law, I would ask Mr Vujovic to respond, the law says that the finance minister can suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget temporarily. What does that word mean? Does this mean that he does it in any case when local self-government acts illegally, does he decide from case to case, and when he can, when he can't, decide when he will decide to suspend budget execution, when he won't, will he be guided by some criteria that will be predetermined? Whether it will determine on the basis of who is in which local self-government is in power, and generally why this structure can be suspended, transfer of transfer funds, why it is not replaced by the word "suspends temporary transfer of transfer funds", so that it is not left to you, Mr. Vujovic, for a free choice when you will sanction a local self-government because it does not respect the law, and one will see a little through the fingers when it does not respect the law, because this is how it is set up, it seems to be your intention. So you should either put it that the minister in all such cases reacts, or does not react at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9436	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9437	Thank you very much. With the support of the arguments that Miss Jerkov has already made, we have here another unusual thing about the government's response, or the government's reaction to these amendments. As has already been said, in the same text are these amendments submitted by colleagues from the DS and I, particularly in Article 14(5). - It's wiped out. In response to colleagues from DS is seven sentences, you can see that here, there are four, there are three. In response to the exact same amendment in the same text, I got an answer to a 16-phrase sentence. It's a very unusual thing, it never happened. When the amendment is rejected, then the other one, which is identical, is rejected for the reasons why this previous one was rejected. So here, he had a situation where the government, or whoever wrote those reasons for refusal, had about the same thing two attitudes, one attitude in seven sentences, another attitude in 16 sentences. When you get into the essence, you see that, and you essentially differ these two attitudes, so you'd like the minister to really tell me what it means – it can – because there are a lot of lawyers who know that when you put a word like that into some legal norm – it can, it can turn out anything and everything, it can, it doesn't have to, it doesn't know when, it doesn't know why. So it gives this high level of occipital evaluation, which shouldn't exist in a serious state. One clear rule should be made or a sublegal act of another kind that says - in case, that, that, then the minister or ministry interrupts the transfer, not so that it remains for the minister's free confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9438	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9439	I can agree with your thinking, so it'd be better if it didn't say it couldn't, rather than definitely be determined. At the same time, however, I am in favour of the proposal that takes into account all the elements, the minister certainly does not decide for himself but decides within the framework of this law, as part of the dedicated transfers, the penalty is, that is, the measure refers to non-purpose transfers, which are also defined by this budget, and the context is so-called. RINO law on payment of commitments between beneficiaries of appropriations. So these are the obligations of local self-government to schools, or budgets to local self-government. It would be better if it were more precise, we could talk about it. For the explanation of their colleagues, they probably thought, I think they became two versions here, and it's possible that there was a mistake in printing. One was to delete the entire article 14 and the other to delete paragraph 14. 5. Look, here are the same texts if you're talking about your amendment next, that's where I share your question. To get back to the point. The point is that this really strengthens what it says about the Budgetary System Act, especially given that it has entered into force. RINO law, which only temporarily does this. This more serves as a measure during the year, since at the end of the year in December all cumulative commitments must be made, transfers by the RINO system to settle. So this is just a temporary measure of the year to make the municipalities feel like they're not doing something by the book. So if they get the means to pay, pay teachers, or teachers in schools, and they don't, even though we find out, that's the measure. Just to warn them that it's not right, that they're getting dedicated funds, which may be subject to other obligations, not those that we think are priority ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9440	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, even a gentleman speaks commendablely of your amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I wanted to commend. Really. Don't brag. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9441	In Article 14(3), the Government, if the beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia on the execution of expenditure, oppose the provisions of Article 2(2) of the members, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, the budget inspection departments may decide to suspend the execution of other expropriations set out in this law for that user. Furthermore, in the next position, the minister in charge of finance affairs can suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, etc. The next attitude is similar. I am only before I read the amendment to comment that it is not quite clear until this suspension takes place and whose decision is suspended. So when you say temporary. Our amendment is otherwise to be added after heading 5. The new position, which is to say – the Ministry of Finance will regularly, and by the 20th of the month for the previous month, publish a list of beneficiaries of the local government's budget, who have been temporarily suspended from the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. the corresponding part of the income tax and corporate tax, with reasons for the suspension. I think it's clear that if this were to be published, or if you would adopt this amendment, that we would be much clearer to what's going on here, when, as long as and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9442	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9443	Article 15 provides for deadlines and a way of paying off part of the funds of the republican public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We suggested that it be deleted, because it's already regulated by other regulations, so this is the same group of amendments as all those we're talking about this afternoon. The government said the amendment could not be accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment, imagine, would significantly reduce budget revenues, leading to an increase in the fiscal deficit, i.e. the threat of budget stability and the financing of the authority of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment would soon lead to a coup. Mr. Vujovicu, this is an insult. This is an insult to common sense, but of course we have no intention of fighting, like you, because we know what our job is. You're talking about public enterprises, some means and some potential losses when our amendment is adopted. Are you talking to Mr Vujovic about these millions of losses to the public enterprises of the Republic? Are you talking about "Serbiagas", "The Railways", about RTB Bor, are you talking about "The Resavica"? Do you have an answer to the question – what will happen to 5,000 employees in Resavica? Do you have an answer to the question – did you provide for them in the budget by accident, after five years you owe them salaries, or a dinar for five years 5,000 people in Resavica did not get it. You didn't see that coming with this budget. So our observations in this section refer to the pure form and unnecessary over-noding of this budget. The point you did not do is that God's command and the essence is not what the citizens of Serbia are going to feel any improvement. You can do this any way you want, until you deliver us a report on the final budget bill for the previous year, and only then will we see how you have it and how you have the resources of a budget filled with the pockets of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9444	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9445	Dear People's MPs, I simply have to respond to the presentation of my colleague, Radeta, regarding Resavica. First of all, I say absolutely responsibly, all the employees of Resavica receive money every month. There is no debt for any unpaid earnings to employees in Resavica. Since this government, debt to employees has been zero. So all salaries are received on time and all salaries are received on the basis of subsidies that we define from their budget. Four billion 470 million dinars a year is a subsidy that goes directly to employees. There are two problems, when it comes to Resavica. One problem is some unpaid old shift work that occurred in the period 2005-2013, meaning not from the domain of this government. The second is that they were not paid PIO commitments for the whole year 2011 and one month in 2012. So this government has not left the dinar in debt when it comes to "Resavica". All obligations are resolved and now we plan and enter the system to consolidate that company. I must say, this year 300 million people have been paid for unpaid shift work, I repeat, since 2005, on the one hand. On the other hand, in this year's budget, we have allocated another 600 million dinars to the social programme process and to the start of the closure of certain mines that are completely non-economic. On the other hand, we put in this budget a guarantee of investment for the Soko mine and an investment programme for increasing production in the Soko mine, which is one of the most profitable and with the largest coal supplies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9446	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9447	Mr Antic sought a replica because "Resavica" was mentioned outside the context of this member. I'm asking to respond to your amendment to Article 15 and just explain. The point of view here is that, in accordance with the other company laws, including public enterprises by 30 June, they must demonstrate their financial performance in the previous year and have the obligation to pay 100%, so it is calculated, by the dynamics set by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. So, this is usually agreed and this depends on how much liquidity there is the funds of a particular public enterprise. Some have free resources, some have funds and demand dynamics that answer them. Well, then, the next position defines that in that context at least 50% should be realised by November 30th, and the rest, of course, again according to the agreement in paragraph 1. This is extremely important because you will notice in the budget for this year, there is an item – non-tax revenue, which is a very significant item and is considered a risk item if we do not have the elements to confirm it. So we're planning tax revenue elements based on projected macroeconomic dynamics, and we're just designing non-tax revenue elements based on these sizes. That's why it's important size. It's the size that contributed 50 billion to the realization last year. So that's almost half the better financial result that came between the rest and here, but also from the collection of digital licenses and other non-tax revenues. Finally, the last member allows the Government, in accordance with the normally considered multi-annual restructuring plans or plans for the development of public enterprises, to authorise them to reinvest part of the resulting profits, whether to cover losses from previous periods, whether to invest in investments or to increase liquidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9448	Thank you. The Faith of Radet, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9449	First of all, to Minister Vujovic, you yourself began to reply with the sentence "According to the other laws". That's what we're talking about, all of this is regulated by some other law, and that's why we said you didn't need a member of 15. As for Minister Antic's response, I think the employees of Resavica will be pinched with happiness to see if those are the ones that Minister Antic is talking about. Mr. Minister Antić and the other ministers, when we told you not to accept the Brussels agreements, then the answer was, that you should not sign them on the basis of everything your predecessors did in the governments, about Kosovo and Metohija, you were then in charge that you, as a serious authority, must be the continuity of some previous government, because this is how serious states do. Well, then -- why didn't you accept continuity and repay the debt to the workers of Resavica? Why didn't you accept the continuity in paying the workers' contributions to Resavica? And, of course, it's not true, Mr. Antic, I don't know if you've been there recently to those miners in the spears, do you even know what kind of panic there is? Do you know how many people are afraid of what you're threatening to close them down, quits, some kind of social programs that are absolutely unacceptable? So I cited the example of “Resavice ” as an example. I could also talk about "Bore" and "The Railways" and about every public enterprise and about any company where the state is co-owner of part of the capital. You gentlemen speak well, it's nice to listen to you, but don't do anything. That's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9450	The word has Minister Aleksandar Antic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9451	So I absolutely can't accept that this government is doing nothing. This government has taken key steps to consolidate public enterprises. I repeat, the focus was "EPS", "Srbigas", "The Railways". A major shift has been made. When it comes to Resavica, just please don't defend the miners from me and you tell me how it is in the mine. I've been living with these people for three years and solving the most difficult problems. All those who would like to earn political points on their torture, I invite them to descend into that pit to see what it's like down there and then know it's not a game thing, Mrs. Radeta. Collect political points in some cheaper address than mining pain. I repeat, this government, I thank you for your support for all colleagues, ministers and Vujovic, and my colleague, Knezevic, as well as the Prime Minister, but I repeat to the entire government, has shown a special feeling towards the people of Resavica. I repeat, we've increased their budget, we've given them a guarantee and we've prepared them a lot of good things. Unfortunately, there is no demagogy, where there is no coal, that mine has to be closed, that pit has to be closed. We don't want those people on the street, we're going to repack them someplace else where there's... If in the mine at the Khuka Vrška Cave, in Zaječar Municipality, there is no more and there is in "Lubnica", which is the same in Zajecar, well, we'll repack these people, we won't leave those people on the street, believe me, we take care of them, more than those who just bang in the chest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9452	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9453	Minister Antic's response was rude and he had to act as chairman. The minister cannot be treated this way and thus speak to the MPs. You're a lot of blasphemy, gentlemen of the Ministers. You're imagining a lot. As Minister Vujovic said earlier -- most of me was elected here. You've been chosen by most of you, but gentlemen, you're ministers and you take care of it. Mr. Antiću, no one, at least we Serbian radicals, is collecting cheap points and we never did that. You know who and how he collects cheap points. You're the one taking the picture daily, holding the conferences daily, opening up the facilities to employ 20 people, and at the conference you say you've hired 200 or 2,000. Mr. Antic, here's just one question to answer, because I see you know very well everything that's going on in Resavica, of course you won't say everything, but obviously you do. Answer only for the sake of the public – who and at what price “Resavica” sells coal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9454	Right to the replica of Minister Aleksandar Antic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Minister. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9455	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why? At last today, it is seen that the dignity of the congregation is compromised. First on the case of Minister Vujovic, and now on the case of Minister Antic. The sensitivity of the MPs cannot be more sensitive in any case than the sensitivity of the ministers who are here. I said yesterday that ministers couldn't be wax figures, that we were watching them here on fire and that we were criticizing inappropriately and inappropriately in order to disqualify or disqualify their work. If that's the goal, then this assembly isn't going in the right direction, then they're not good messages to the citizens, then we're sending very bad messages. On the other hand, no one can challenge the minister's right to react. Minister Antic, in fact, answered the question he was asked in a factual and factual manner, which is why such an approach by the minister, which is being determined on the issue of the MP, is being looked downright. We must, as MPs, finally understand how we will establish dialogue with ministers. This dialogue cannot be disqualification, demeaning on either side. We must finally establish a dictionary that is suitable not only for the Assembly, but for a dictionary that should paint us as the real representatives of the citizens that we really should represent. I ask you, in that sense, that the MPs really continue to work in the future and have a proper dialogue with the ministers, not in the way that it was just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9456	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Aleksandar Antic. Wait, Mr. Minister. First, Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Spa. Jovanovic: I am advertising Mr Arsic just now 27. Whether or not you have been relieved of your concentration or you tend to do so, but as chairman, you must respect the right of the MP to advertise the Rules of Procedure and I warn you that you have violated this member because you have not responded from the post of chair to such qualifications by Minister Antic, not to talk about the incident behaviour of Minister Vujovic. We are not ministers here, we are already elected MPs, and they are lower in rank, because we represent the highest legislative authority, they are obliged to listen to our criticisms, our observations and our arguments. Mr. Anticu, you can't tell, and that's where you should have interrupted him, Mr. Arsic, my colleague Radetti, that she can't protect herself. And what can't? Five thousand times better to protect both workers and miners and pensioners and farmers than you. When, after NATO's criminal aggression in 1999, we inherited such a situation in Serbia's economy, thanks to the very government in which the Serbian Radical Party took part, along with you, you probably forgot it, since you are now great Europeans, we have raised all the factories that have been torn down by today by your friends, whom you are flocking to hug. Therefore, yours was a specific question by a colleague - who and at what advantageous prices, which of Resavica's coal merchants sell? And as for the workers, as far as their equipment is concerned, as far as taking care of them, when the citizens show us trust, we'll be much better at running... [[off microphone]] My colleague Jovanovic, you have already entered the line, not the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I agree with you, but partly. Ministers should listen to the MPs and answer their questions, and if the MP is not satisfied to have the right to re-discuss, ask questions or deny the minister, rather than belittle. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9458	I thank you, Chairman. You reacted, but you reacted late. My predecessor has already done something that is absolutely inadmissible, which has injured Article 106... (Bosko Obradović, from the post: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? )......................................................................................................... Which injures Article 106 regarding Article 27... (Bosko Obradović, from the post: Which member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9459	Excuse me. Mr. Obradovic, said article 106. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: No. He said, I heard him. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I did not hear. How do you hear it when you're screaming at maltenes? Ask for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9460	It's just a momentary picture of the National Assembly, unfortunately inadmissible, unfortunately, one that shouldn't be in front of the citizens, but I'm glad the citizens can recognize who's making that picture. I've advertised a very clear article in 106, and I ask you to respond immediately to injuries or abuses of business rights in the future. You've allowed the People's Parliament to complete a complete replica. She called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and she's replicating the minister, which is absolutely inadmissible. I ask you to sanction such abuses of your business powers immediately, not at the very end. I, of course, will not usurp the Minister's right to answer all questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9461	Believe me, Mr. Jovanovic, if I hadn't interrupted my colleague Natasha, it was a long way from her ending her entire replica, I know her a little more than you do. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9462	Dear People's MPs, of course, with absolute respect for this high house, from which I have also entered the ministerial bench, and understanding, of course, the roles of Parliament and MPs, and an apology if my discussion may have had one dose of tension, please understand that it is primarily due to the enormous energy that we are giving just the consolidation of the Public Company of Resavica. Then when, from the discussion of the MP, who has so much experience and which I am looking at from the point of view of taking serious and responsible information, I hear that the workers of Resavica have not received the salary for five years, let it be something that I cannot accept and react to on the one hand, a little worse. On the other hand, the Government and the Ministry, I repeat, are doing a serious project to consolidate this public enterprise, indeed, in the first place, and above all to take care of the fate of those people, miners working in these difficult conditions and in municipalities and parts of Serbia that are unfortunately undeveloped, and taking into account the overall and economic and social problems that the whole project is having. When it comes to coal production in Resavica, it is unfortunately not big, it will be somewhere below 600,000 tonnes in 2016. The largest part of that coal, about 80%, is coal that goes for the needs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, then energy from Kragujevac, a small part of it, up to 100,000 tonnes is coal sold at auctions. Mrs. Radeta, I'm not a commercialist at the public firm Resavica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9463	No personal address, Minister, and two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9464	You have a list of all buyers with quantities on the public company website, so I invite you to get information there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9465	There's no one left in the replica first. We're moving on with our work. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9466	Thank you. Article 15 originally provides for public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic, to pay up to 50% of profits by November. With the amendment, we propose to tighten it to 75% by September. The intensity of this amendment is to get the money away from the party managers and their policies, to get the money out of the budget as soon as possible and to the highest percentage, because we trust the finance ministry more, so we suggest that the money be centralized there as quickly as possible. For example, let's say why it's necessary to do this is at "Nikola Tesla" Airport. The profit of the airport in 2015 was $20m, and in 2014 30m, which is a total of 50m profits, of which the state should withdraw dividends, make money go into the budget and benefit all Serbian citizens. However, the profit would have been significantly higher if, for example, the state had failed to write off the airport's claim from Etihad in October 2014. – September 2015 22 million dollars, and for the period January – September 2014 17.6 million. So the total profit of the airport is 50 million, and the write-off that was made to Etyhad, therefore, the exemption from the Etyhad commitment is 39.6, which is about the same size. For such a reduction in airport profits, so much less could have been paid into the budget, as the write-off of the claim was made on the proposal "Etihad", that "Etihad" debts to the airport are beaten with the obligation of the state, according to the contract, under Article 72, which provides for it. That's what the public needs to know. So, instead of serving equal service to all airlines, the airport was forced by politicians to write off the claim that is his and ours, therefore, the property of the citizens, to record so much costs. Citizens need to know, the write-off of claims is the cost of the current period, so much the profit is reduced. That, therefore, is the reduced profits of the airport and budget revenues. We believe that such a political agreement is legitimate to be done by politicians and citizens should know that. They should also know that under such agreements, less money is paid into the budget, not that it is represented as a business for the citizens of Serbia for millenniums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9467	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9468	With your logic and explanation, I can agree, but all this is entirely consistent with the last half of the sentence of the first attitude. Read – according to the dynamics defined by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. So all you've said is an integral part of that dialogue and this deadline is just the deadline. So we also look at our dynamics of expected monthly incomes, both tax, non-taxable, and the possibilities of certain public enterprises, liquidity conditions. Some of them have profits that can't get away so easily because it's placed in some longer-term placements, or there's some claims that have to be made. So, I totally agree with the logic you said, but I think it's an integral part of the policy contained in this part of the article, by the dynamics of the ministry. We may be able to do this next, but be careful, this applies to 2016, and in other places it doesn't specify that year. So, we're making this clear this year and we're already gro... So now we end in 2016, and already in March we'll know about where they are, so we'll wait until there's a review of those reports by June, and then we'll figure out who's going to make the profits, or where they're not, or someone's going to keep it. Therefore, this is now entirely consistent with what is said in Article 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9469	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9470	Thank you. The essence of this amendment, which provides that at least 50% of the profits made by public undertakings are to be paid to the budget, is to practically impose an obligation on the Management Board, as a managing authority, to decide what is at least 50% of the funds. It could be 50, it could be 70, and it could be 80%. But, on the other hand, in order for public enterprises to have anything to pay in the Republic's register, they first need to be reformed. In five years of your rule, the only thing you haven't been able to do is solve the biggest problem you've been talking about for five years -- reforming public enterprises that are the source of the greatest losses. Half of the planned deficit goes to the loss of public enterprises on the basis of the guarantees issued from the previous period and the business losses they make. Therefore, it is totally illusory at this point to talk about this profit, because we do not have it, except in the case of Telecom, perhaps Post and a few of some companies, we do not know how much money it has paid because we have not seen the report in the budget, which could be used as indicated in this article, for investments, but by the approval of the Government, which can give them consent to it or not give them. In order for you to be able to talk about it at all, it is necessary first to create conditions for companies to be profitable, to clean them from various party personnel, because at this point they continue to serve to foster political members from ruling parties, above all from the SNS. As long as that is the case, we cannot talk about professional institutions working to achieve results for the Republic of Serbia and citizens living in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9471	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9472	Thank you. Another one in a series of pointless amendments. We heard a colleague, Aleksic, saying that Article 15 of attitude 1 sets out, in addition to public enterprises, other forms of organisation, which was founded by the Republic of Serbia, as well as forms of organisation in which the Republic of Serbia is owned. Since these forms, other than the Management Boards, are represented by other management bodies, for example, supervisory committees, an amendment cannot be adopted which lists the Management Board as the sole management entity. We here listen to the amendments being submitted to improve the laws and that, normally, it's for the benefit of the citizens. To be honest, I doubt that the amendment promoter was unaware of what I said, therefore, that the amendment is completely pointless, given that other forms of governance exist in public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia. So, we're campaigning, i.e. Our opposition deals with a campaign that simply states – reject everything, or be against everything that comes from the government. But Serbian citizens understood the intentions of fellow opposition MPs, and I call on fellow MPs not to support this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9473	National MP Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9474	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, is asked to remove "other forms of organisation" in Article 15(1). This amendment should not be accepted because Article 15 clearly states: "public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia". They can be stock companies, they can be limited-responsibility companies that will do well and make a profit. The adoption of this amendment would reduce budget revenues, potentially jeopardising budget stability. That is why this amendment should not be accepted and I call on fellow Members of Parliament not to declare themselves in the voting day for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9475	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9476	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, this is one of the similar amendments that we have submitted. I think what it says in this article, which is that at least 50% of the profits have to be paid in the budget, doesn't mean much. It doesn't mean much for two reasons. First, you can't predict what that percentage is. It can be 100%, it can be 80%, and 70%, and I think it'd be better if that percentage was determined. On the other hand, we have a problem that companies where the state owns essentially don't make as much profit as they should. I usually think that wherever the state owns it, it's stealing in these companies and that it's a serious problem that we have, that they're much more efficient and better companies where there's no state property, and I think we can see that in the case of VIP and Telenor in relation to Telekom, and I think that the government should deal with it, see how we change it and how we put it into practice that these companies run people who have knowledge and experience, and not that they're party personnel. As long as there are party personnel in companies where the state owns or co-owners, these companies will be stolen and the state has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9477	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9478	Dear fellow MPs, continuing to practice, to express myself in Serbian, to make as transparent and clear as possible what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and what happens with the use of budget and people's couples, we have proposed another amendment, that all "public enterprises and other entities founded by the Republic of Serbia are obliged to publish on their website all surpluses of expenditure revenue and return it to the Republic budget, no later than the end of the month for the previous month". So our goal is very clear – to determine what is really going on in public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, to determine how much Mira Petrovic is sitting in our public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9479	Warning, Mr. Bosko.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9480	What did I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9481	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9482	I'm sorry, just to explain to me what I did, so I know I'm not wrong anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9483	No need to explain, I listened to your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9484	And you have the right to give me a warning whenever you want and how will you do it? Is that the point?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9485	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9486	You have to explain to me why you gave me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9487	Proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9488	Do you, the chairman, understand that you cannot share warnings as you wish, but you must explain why you are doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9489	I'm doing it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9490	Did I break the Rules of Procedure? What did I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9491	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9492	I'm not allowed to mention any names? Are there any names forbidden to mention?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9493	Proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9494	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to explain to the citizens of Serbia why I was warned. For what? So you have the right to warn me, to punish me, to punish the MPs of the opposition without even explaining why you are doing it. Explain that to the citizens of Serbia. Here, the citizens of Serbia are watching you. Explain what I said wrong, who I insulted, what I hurt, what's the problem, where I broke the Rules of Procedure. So you cannot warn as you please. You can no longer punish the MPs of the opposition any way you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9495	Two minutes, Mr. Beard. Time's up. Now let me explain. All these debates you're having, you're deliberately calling out the MPs, you're giving some facts, just to provoke debate and reasons for replication here in parliament. You're dealing with your amendment. Your amendment reads: "public enterprises and other entities whose founder is the Republic of Serbia undertake to publish on their internet presentation of all expenditure surpluses and return them to the Republic's budget, no later than the end of the month for the previous month. “ You didn’t do it. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: You did not let me finish. You have no right to do that. You have no right to do that. To mention someone's name, you're giving a warning. () What does counterpart Mira Petrovic have to do with it now? There's nothing. Believe me, there's nothing. We're moving on with our work. Is anyone else answering this amendment? The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9496	Mr. Arsic, are you familiar with the content of article 109? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? That article states in which cases warnings shall be made to the MP. We have all sat in this room, and none of the conditions that should be met in order for you to give notice to the MP in the case of the previous speaker is fulfilled. As far as I can tell, there's no provision in him that the chairman can, if the speaker says something he doesn't like for any reason, give a warning. Please, either withdraw the warning or otherwise correct what you've done, because what you've done is absolutely contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Please explain to me on the basis of which provisions of article 109 did you give notice to the MP, Bosca Obradovic? He neither approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly president nor spoke before he asked and received his word, nor did you warn him not to speak about the issue on the agenda, so he continued, nor interrupted the speaker in the presentation, nor threw, directly addressed, used swearing, offensive expressions. I mean, what did you do before, Mr. Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9497	My colleague Jerkov, you have not read the most important part – which addresses the other People's Messenger directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9498	He said his name and name...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9499	He said the name and last name of counterpart Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9500	Do you know what direct address is?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9501	Do you want to make a statement in the Parliament's voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9502	Of course I do, with the impression that you don't understand what direct address is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9503	He'll come out. You have no right to a replica, I reacted on time. Please, we're moving on. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9504	Thank you. With my amendment, I suggested that public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which the Republic of Serbia is obliged to publish, at the monthly level, on the internet presentation of all excess revenues over expenditure and payments to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, every month, and by the fifth of the month at the latest, and for the previous month, public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, will announce exactly all expenditure income surpluses and payments to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is argued that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which I quote, cannot define the obligation of public enterprises and other forms of organisation, which is the founder of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the obligation to publish and make surplus revenues above expenditure and to pay into the budget of the Republic of Serbia at the monthly level. This argument is not good because the proponent accepts, in previous reasons, the possibility of reporting on income and expenditure, and closes here as an opportunity without reason for such an attitude. Especially because the Budget Law can be considered a lex specialis in relation to the implementation of budgetary expenditures and revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9505	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. Here, the word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9506	Article 16 of the bill is in some way, we received a message that special, individual collective agreements in the part relating to payments of Christmas, annual and other types of prizes and bonuses will not apply. So the question arises, and why did the union and employer negotiate and create a collective contract when it was a contract between the two parties, when someone shows up and says, "Puj dots don't apply to what you have signed." And here we have a clear set of rules in line with European standards on collective bargaining, settlement, and peaceful dispute resolution, etc. Here's an example, someone remembered and said – forbidden, no more, no more special collective agreements in this section apply when it comes to direct and indirect users of funds, public funds. Why? The government of the Republic of Serbia said and voted most. There is no question here whether it is possible, because in this building, it is possible if 26 handles are raised to the elbows at the time of the vote. How do you say this is pointless what we're looking for?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9507	The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šukic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9508	Thank you. Member of the 16th Proposer of this Law resorts to another exception. To be precise in this article, we have two exceptions. We have the first exception that, in 2017, not all of these allocations will be paid by, from the level of the republican budget, the budgets of local self-government, and the second exception, therefore, that does not apply, this exception does not apply to jubilee awards. So, like a member of the 10th that we talked about for a little while, these separations will come up for payment. The law allows employers and employees, i.e. representatives of employees, to agree on certain separations. Well, for God's sake, there's a Social Economic Council at the state level. There are social economic councils at the level of local self-government. Local self-government, employers, employees participate, agree. So this is one way to suspend these deals. This is, as I would say, a multi-year-old liquid, and on the other hand, it encourages employers to avoid the obligations they have made either in direct negotiations with employees in the conclusion whether it is a branch or a specific or individual collective contract. In this way, arrangements are suspended that have been reached with employees. As for the exception of this exception, therefore, the jubilee prize, why does the government do so? Because we had a few years ago the case that the jubilee awards were also excluded for employees in education, and then under the pressure of unions and protests we were forced into local self-government that in one year, which I was talking about during today's debate, we were forced to settle the two-year obligation in one year because it was not possible to avoid that obligation. So you can't do what's prescribed by law, which is prescribed or agreed by special, individual, collective contracts to suspend you in such a way. So, the state, or local self-government, when it comes to these, these levels of budget, will be obliged when this is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9509	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanov. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9510	This is another member who speaks of insubordination municipalities that do not respect the law and the punishment of the finance ministry, but not of punishment that will follow, but of punishment that can follow, according to the law. When the minister of the past explained this to us he rightly said that municipalities should know that unless they respect the law of the ministry responsible for the affairs of finance, they find out that the municipality does not respect the law, that they will follow such and such consequences. And you would be absolutely right about Mr. Vujovic just because the law doesn't say it. The law does not say that it will follow the consequences and that the ministries responsible for financial affairs will punish such municipalities. The law states that the Ministry of Finance Affairs can punish not such municipalities but not in any case do so. So I ask you again, when will you punish those municipalities and when will you not? How are you going to make a decision on what? Do you think it would be appropriate in other laws when we talk about criminal provisions that if someone breaks the law, the punishment can be imposed, and it doesn't have to be someone's arbitrary decision. So I ask you to inform us of the criteria on which you will make decisions when you punish a municipality for non-compliance with the law, and you will not punish a municipality or, as we suspect, your decision will be based solely on who is the authority of that municipality, which would exceed your authority as minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9511	Thank you. Minister, did you report for this amendment or is it in the system? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9512	Thank you for the good questions. These are great questions for all of us. So what do we do with the rights that the law guarantees under conditions when we don't have enough resources, and by our own decision we decide that we don't have enough resources. Notice this is defined in this law because it refers to a specific fiscal year. We knew that it would apply to three years for which we are planning a fiscal consolidation programme. This is the measure that hurts. In many other situations, it is defined resourcefully. It's said everywhere that all these things from collective agreements, all these things that we define here, all the rewards, bonuses and other things, are usually written or should be written in the frames of available funds. It's a restriction on the level of individual public enterprises. Everyone actually operates on the means available. Since we believe that this introduces the complementary element of inequality, disagreements, differences in perceptions and others, then we went to the formulas that this type of bonus in some way freeze and delay throughout the fiscal year 2017. It's the necessary consequence of our determination to get out of this situation. I hope we have very little left, but most of the world works that way. It's another thing when a collective contract is signed and it guarantees some other resources. We define this for the public sector, not the private sector. Since we ourselves are imposing a restriction, we would be hypocritical to have parliament voting restrictions on both income and expenditure and deficits, and on the other hand to allow the rights to be met according to individual decisions. So this is completely consistent. Does it hurt? I'm sure it hurts. Do I see the end of this? I see this neighborhood relatively recently. Thank you very much. Two implicit questions. One question is - on whose proposal? So, we're certainly relying on a motion from the Resolute Ministry here, we can't do it without them by any chance. Secondly, we usually also rely on a proposal for a situation at the bar, in cities, etc., depending on the situation with them, etc. So that's the point. We're looking at real conditions. Therefore, there is no reason for the minister not to make that decision, if there is such a proposal, if there are reasons for another solution, then it will certainly be seen reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9514	Thank you. I have the impression that you, Mr. Vujovic, did not understand what I was talking about. I'm talking about the position of the third member, where it says that unless the local self-government units provide in the budget and pay off the jubilee rewards, etc. on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs, it may suspend the transfer of funds. My question to you is – why does it not write to suspend the transfer of funds? On what basis will you decide, Mr Vujovic, when will you stop and when will you not? Are there any predetermined criteria when you stop and when you won't? How are you going to make that decision? Why is this not done as your mandatory measure, but as your arbitrary decision? Exactly what you're saying, that we shouldn't have a crisis situation, it seems to me that you've given yourself this right and that we don't have clear criteria based on which you'll eventually make that decision, and sometimes you won't, and you know how much trouble educational workers have, and even with that payment of jubilee rewards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9515	Replica, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9516	Just a quick answer. The way I read this can mean next. The minister has the responsibility to make a decision on a proposal from the restoring ministry and to set a temporary suspension measure. We don't have a permanent measure, it just temporarily suspends these transfers during the fiscal year. Our ability to punish it, under the assumption, is very limited. It's maltenes like some kind of reprimand. But that's the situation with us. We can't do any more than that. Someone here suggested that it be published on the Internet. I don't have a problem with that, but the situation is that, because of the independence of local self-government, because of independence, we can't permanently lift their transfers even if they don't meet those obligations. Maybe these people I see around here who know cities and municipalities know how it works. So, all we can do is, on a proposal from the Resorving Ministry, measure that and now within the Rino-system, activate that measure without a problem after 45 days, but in December, we have to do all this to... I don't mind standing the sea, but in our conditions de facto means sea.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9517	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic and MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9518	Thank you. Your Honors Minister, and I believe that Article 16 has completely derailed other laws and you continue to adopt contradictory laws, where one law excludes the other. You here are practically contrary to the laws that provide for individual and collective agreements prohibiting indirect and direct users of budgets and local self-government to pay compensation for new year's, Christmas or other types of bonuses, and on the other hand, you also provide in the same article a penalty by abolishing transfer funds for those local self-governments that do not pay jubilee rewards to primary and secondary education employees. First, it's completely pointless for municipalities and cities to pay jubilee prizes because they don't pay their profits. The profits are paid by the Ministry of Finance, and you're telling us that municipalities from their budgets, of which you've already taken money, should finance jubilee awards. If you've already taken the money with the municipalities, at least assume on your obligation to pay the jubilee prizes. Then, if someone doesn't pay, you say further – they will be punished by abolishing the transfer. In this way you place everything in the same basket and those cities and municipalities that had blocked school accounts, blocking public institutions, and then you non-transparently allocated funds from the current liquidity budget, such as Kragujevac 300 million, Nis 200 million, Leskovac 160 million, Novi Sad 120 million, by chance or not, are all cities managed by SNS personnel, and those like Triestenik, for example, who never had a single school and an institution blocked, where all the toilets were made, where nothing is owed to any school, you place them in the same basket as those you already give money from the budget. Therefore, this member is in fact jeopardising the work and normal functioning of local self-government and other direct and indirect users of the budget and devising the existence of collective agreements and it needs to be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9519	The word has Zoran Zivkovic, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9520	With the support of the arguments given by my colleague who spoke before me, I must again point to one paradox, which is that the amendment in the same text of colleagues gets a response in seven rows, and I get a response in 16 rows. I'd love to see a methodology that leads to that. So it's either some very serious methodology or someone has no idea what it says. But to get into the essence, in the explanation given to fellow Aleksic, says in one part of the text – at the request of representative unions in primary and secondary schools, it is envisaged that, at the proposal of the Minister of Education Affairs, the minister in charge of finance affairs can suspend, etc. Since when do unions have the right to demand something from the government, or in this case the parliament that is to pass this law? What's the wording? Why aren't those formulations in the explanation that was given to me? That's completely pointless. Unions can appeal, they can fight for their rights. I support that fight, but that you reject an amendment that deprives education and finance ministers of their free will and appraisal of some funds to local self-government, and you justify it to the unions, that's pointless. There's a budget inspection, there's a DRI, and their job is to deal with how budgets are spent and whether all obligations are met. Finally, another sentence, if you will allow me, that shocking decision leads to the transfer of 65m from the pension budget to Belgrade five days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9521	Thank you very much. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9522	I think it's very important that we understand what we were thinking, what was the intention of the people who wrote this article, that is, the attitude of this third member, which is a particular subject of consideration and what came and that we have this complete clarity about what it says here. So, it says here this: in the billing of wages, among other things, the jubilee prizes are also accounted for. The first two members are talking about these things happening at the annual frequency... There are limits. If someone whose 20 years of service falls in 2017, due to this short-term limitation, he will not get another one in the next nine years. That's why we think long-term things shouldn't be subject to short-term restrictions, because it's a very small number of people who get that and because they're usually budgeted. Therefore, here we say – if the local self-government that transfers it to schools does not act on what has been transferred, then the Ministry of Finance, on request, on a proposal from the restoring ministry, has the right to suspend transfers in that amount. In other words, to provide funds so that he can directly... That's what it says here. Look what it says, here, read it. It writes – on a proposal from the Ministry of Education to suspend the transfer of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. the corresponding part of the income tax in the amount of unpaid jubilee awards employed in primary and secondary schools. So we're counting their jubilee prizes and we're saying, if you don't pay it off, we're gonna stop it. I explained the intensity of this member. The member's intensity is to exclude this, since the first restriction applies to annual, Christmas, etc. Rewards, and this applies to ten-year rewards, you understand? We wanted to exempt them from those short-term restrictions we're going through right now. It was our intention and it says here. And therefore, we want to stay on that agenda. If you don't have another solution... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: There is a better solution. Then suggest on the Committee. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9523	You or Alexic? I can't give them both a line. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Manny, since I am older.) Well, the younger ones can't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9524	There is a better solution that is essential, generically completely logical, since already the state, the ministry pays salaries to educators. Where's the logic of these awards being paid by local self-government? It doesn't make any sense. So, change the law. This is what the law says, so it can change, it's not an argument. Change the law and it is perfectly logical that these awards are paid by the ministry, that is, from the budget. That's how it was until 2007. I don't know who changed that. He didn't have any good intentions. It's generally completely pointless for local self-government to pay for it, because it can happen, let's say, that some teacher worked in Belgrade for nine years, and then for some reason he moved to Svilajnac and now someone in Svilinc needs to give him a 10-year job internship award. It's completely pointless. He's not a local teacher or a local teacher, he's a teacher, a civil servant at the Ministry of Education. Therefore, first accept this amendment and thus show us good will, and very quickly give us a bill on amending the law and we will vote absolutely for it, and that is the solution where there is no need for you to be an arbitration officer, so see if anything is wrong, is something wrong? I think we agree and agree on that, and I expect you to say that my proposal is good. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9525	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to allow his participation in the work in the National Assembly. You have been ordered by the RIK decision on the allocation of the National MP's mandate. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, and I am confirming the mandate of Parliamentarian Goran Pekarsko, elected from the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Goran Pekarski. Congratulations and I'd like to approach the oath. Dear People's MP, in accordance with Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Congratulations on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wish you successful work together. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You can't both. He's replicated once, not both. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Verica Radeta. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9526	We have proposed to delete Article 17 which speaks of fees for the work of presidents and members of committees and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector. The draft budget law says their fees will not increase in 2017. As for the previous few members, where we have proposed to delete, we also think that there was no need in the draft budget law because this has already been regulated by other laws. I guess the ban on making a profit in the public sector also applies to all of the ones you've listed here. Here you are also saying that direct and indirect beneficiaries of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget can form commissions and other permanent or temporary bodies in accordance with a special law. So again, you're saying that there's a special law or another regulation and it's still unclear to us why you're serving it here. Otherwise, there are 11,470 direct and indirect users of the budget in Serbia and each of them has its own general acts, on which it operates and operates. You do not accept the amendment because you say - Article 17. The draft law shall be entrusted to the competent authorities and users of public funds to examine the needs of existence and the amount of compensation to be paid. This is just not true. This doesn't stand in the law. What you wrote in your explanation is why you do not accept the amendment. Maybe you were tired, maybe there were a lot of amendments, so you failed to send out which member the amendment refers to. Your argument does not refer to the member we have submitted the amendment. This says that you've only done a job like that so you can have the draft budget prepared that week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9527	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9528	I have in front of me, I hope, the same text of the draft budget bill for 2017. Your amendment refers to Article 17. The first member you have already read - fees for the work of the president, members of the commission and other permanent and temporary bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2017. Another member, he says, is in charge of the competent authorities and public funds to review the need for the existence of an amount of compensation under Article 1 to reduce expenditure on this basis, and to that end initiate amendments to laws, other regulations, general and other acts, which are governed by the payment of these fees. It says here, I don't know, is there any discrepancy between the variant of the law that you have and what we have? That's what it says in our book, and that's why the argument is called for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9529	Thank you. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 17th amendment. You want a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9530	Thank you, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Dear Minister, you asked where to save money, so we wouldn't take away from the salaries and pensions of the citizens, as the DS suggested, and here's a concrete example. If you really want to save money, not to fund party listeners, the DS has suggested that this amendment abolish the prizes for the work of the president and members of the commission and other working bodies, because we have, for example, the Ministry of Justice, where an x-person is employed, this same person, the X-person, during working time, holds a meeting of the commission for half an hour and gets serious financial resources for that commission. Public sector employee, Justice Department employee. You have appointed the same ministry to be a member or president of the relevant commission, or an appropriate working body, and it, in its working time, maintains that commission and receives additional funds. It is self-satisfaction by party listeners, who cannot be satisfied otherwise, and therefore DS proposes this amendment. In the subject, as good as this amendment is, it says that you, also from the SNS in the Municipality of Pećinci, spent 14 million dinars in the work of the Labour Body Commission last year alone. Ludi, the municipality of Pecinci is a small municipality in Vojvodina and in that small municipality you spent 14 million dinars for commission work. For this reason, the DS proposes specifically this amendment to abolish the payment of commission members and working bodies to persons already in employment, i.e. already working in the public sector. If you want to contain the partocrat, if you want to advocate, and decentralisation and departementation of the system, then that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9531	Thank you, thank you. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9532	Thank you. So, Mr. Minister, I'm referring to a part of the discussion of the previous speaker, the situation of abuse, when it comes to commissions and various bodies that are being founded, temporary ones, are really big. I support control in this area. However, in Articles 2 and 3, for which I have suggested that they be deleted, I don't think you will, if that's your intention. Therefore, it is also alternative, more agreed, suchly tasked with budget users, competent authorities to review etc. If they're going to reconsider, there's no punishment, like punishment for local self-government, if they don't settle their obligations, there's no deadline. So you won't be able to control the competent authorities and users of public funds in the phase of reviewing the necessity of payment, in general commissions and temporary working bodies, especially when it comes to heights. When you get some research, you'll get a report that it's the right thing to do and it'll end. So you don't have any protection in this article that you can act. So, my proposal is, I don't think it's an amendment, but you can think about the future, and maybe there will be some changes to this draft budget, later in the financial year, that the minister is in charge that within six months, three months, how long it will take to adopt a rule that will regulate, which jobs, how commissions form, who form them, for which jobs, which are required by members and, of course, when it comes to the amount of fees. This is a contribution to better control budget spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9533	Thank you. Member of the 17mandman was jointly submitted by MPs of the DS group, meaning by the presence of Aleksandra Jerkov, Veroljub Stevanovic. You? Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9534	Thank you, President. As we have had the opportunity to hear, from colleagues who have already spoken about this article, it is about fees for the work of the president and members of committees and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector. There is this item 2 to be entrusted to the competent authorities, the public funds users, to examine the need for existence and the amount of compensation provided for in Article 1, in order to reduce expenditure on this basis, and to initiate amendments to the laws and regulations, general and other acts governing the payment of these payments. Given that this same member, with this same attitude, was also in the previous 2016 budget, I am interested in whether you have any information on how many of these public funds users actually abolished commissions' work fees, how many have been initiated by amendments to the law, regulations and how many savings have been made or are simply a provision that stands here to create a picture of how you intend to, one day, to abolish fees for working in different commissions. I think everyone knows that these commissions have as much as you want and that the fees in them are more than treasonous. Since it seems to me to be a principled provision that is not even a place in the law, because there is no record of what happens if someone fails to fulfil that task. I am interested, do you know how many public funds users have dealt with the same debt given in the 2016 budget and how many have actually been abolished. Do you have any information or anything here obviously needs to change if you're so committed to really saving the funds that way, I don't think you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9535	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9536	Already two MPs speak of the positions of 2 and 3 members of 17, having more character, appeal and repeated from the previous year. We can totally agree on that. I'd like them to stay, and I'd like to make an effort to ask all the users of the funds, especially large public enterprises, to give us a report on that. Justice has already done an analysis, and counterpart Nela Kuburovic can tell us what they've done so far. I can tell you one thing, which is that 100% of the law is being implemented that for any such place there must be agreement that there is no conflict of interest and that there is agreement of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So that's the part we're doing. This part, whether they have reduced, tailored or abolished those fees, we still don't have that part, because there are obviously conflicting interests of people who think it's a waste of time and resources. It is a practice in a large number of countries in the world, where public sector officials are often compensated for their efforts by participating in different such committees. It's not easy to find a solution, but the minimum we can do is try to see how it's realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9537	Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9538	Thank you. Just to be clear, since the Department of Justice was mentioned earlier, as someone who has commissions where employees participate. I must draw attention to the fact that there are no such committees in the Justice Department where employees participate in their work, but only when it comes to additional exams, such as a judicial exam, a public test or an examination for the perpetrators, where judges or teachers are involved, and they receive compensation. These fees do not go out of the budget, since candidates themselves are already paying fees for passing exams. What is important is that the Ministry of Justice reduced those fees, since earlier there was a practice for respondents to receive a fee according to the number of candidates participating in the exam, so by 2012, there was the possibility that one examiner in the public record exam would also receive a fee of up to a million dinars per month. It was abolished and now these fees are in some way very symbolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9539	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9540	Thank you. We have proposed this amendment to Article 17 to sort of curb the flood of these commissions and working bodies. During the discussion in principle, Dusan Pavlovic spoke about it, so he cited examples from various local self-governments – the Commission for determining the conditions on the beach and the like. We've received an answer from the government that the Budget Law is not a place where it is limited, so we'll see which law it is, and we'll propose amendments and additions to that law. Why does this matter? So, on 11 July 2016, the DRI published a report on the revision of the purpose of the formation of these various commissions and other permanent bodies in the public sector and the findings of the state auditor is that hundreds of millions of taxpayers spend on commissions established without clear criteria and control of their work. To the greatest extent, the work of these commissions overlaps with the regular work for which members of these bodies usually receive salaries, so there is no need for them to be specifically established. Leaders have the usual discretionary right to determine the fees for working in these bodies, and it is often the case that more commissions for the same jobs are set up. All of these are DRI findings. It is clear from the above that the formation of commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies is practically misused in order to enable privileged personnel to have an additional source of earnings in a situation where, among other things, the Government and this Budget Act do not provide for funds to increase employment on the basis of the labour impact achieved. In fact, it creates a system for employees to be consciously brought into the position of accomplices in dubious actions by keeping their profits at an unreasonablely low level and then selectively privileged in this way being provided through pointless commissions to generate additional income, which is actually created by party listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9541	The 17th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 17th Amendment was filed by Alexander Chabrai. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9542	The Honorable Chairman, I would first of all ask that if you allow time to look at the stenogram while you were holding the presidency, because there was really no reason to give the notice, because I was only talking about concrete things and the amendment. The same case is also now that our amendment provides that compensation for the work of members of management bodies in public enterprises is to be made mandatory on the official internet presentation of entities that make payments by the end of the month at the latest. In its explanation it clearly states, this way the public will be familiar with the costs of public enterprises. What does that mean exactly? This means that we in our national administration and administration have a number of employees at the highest state functions who simultaneously make various payments by memberships in working boards, commissions and a number of other state-level paralegals which are also making additional incomes. Let's say, for example, if I were to point out maybe Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, whose salary is 550,000 dinars, now imagine that next to the seat of the governor of the NBS, she's still making more of a membership on some board, in some commission, I still don't know which state authority she's paying for her work or as I was saying here in the case of V.D. Mr. Mira Petrovic, director of the Post, who makes additional receipts through a post office at the National MP in the Serbian Parliament? It is very important that we know who and how much he receives in this country on different grounds because then Jorgenka Tabaković does not have a salary of only 550,000 dinars, but perhaps more because he may be on some boards of directors. Also, Mrs Petrovic does not have only 200,000 or 300,000 as the director of "Post" but also as a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9543	Thank you. I'll take a look at the notes anyway. The 17th Amendment was submitted by LJupka Mihajlovska. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9544	Thank you. My amendment proposes that compensation for the work of the president and the members of the commission and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector be announced at the monthly level at the internet presentation of bodies that pay the fees in question every month by the fifth of the current month at the latest, and for the previous month all bodies paying the fees in question for the work of the president and the members of the commission and other permanent and temporary working bodies in their composition. The proposal clarifies that the obligation to publish fees for the work of the president and members of the commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be defined. It is further stated that the Budget Law is the prescribed way and deadlines for submitting financial reports for all budget users. The submission of financial reports is not and cannot be the same as notifying the public. The reporting obligation is essentially the same as the notification obligation. The promoter accepts that reporting can be defined and cannot be notified, which is not logical at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9545	Thank you. Miljan Damnjanovic and Milorad Mircic submitted together to the 18th amendment. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9546	We've proposed to delete this member because he doesn't belong in the Budget Law either. Article 19 speaks of other users of public funds using business space and movables managed by direct or indirect beneficiaries of budgets, i.e. the budgets of local authorities and paying the costs incurred by the current investment maintenance, i.e. the lease in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Government, i.e. the local government’s executive body. This was already prescribed somewhere, and there was no need to stand in this law. You do not accept the amendment because you say that there is no reason to see the reasons for the necessity of adoption, it is very clear and very precise written, given, you say, that when the government prescribes criteria on which other users who use business space or movable things managed by direct or indirect budget users will pay the costs incurred, the costs of ongoing investment maintenance, i.e. the lease will take into account the type of costs etc. It's completely unclear what the rent costs are here. I guess the tenants are paying the rent. I guess investment maintenance if the tenants pay, then contracts are concluded, and then those costs on behalf of the leases are broken down for a period of time, i.e. the lease is reduced for a period of time. You wrote this rather vaguely so that you simply can't understand what you really wanted to say in this explanation. There's nothing less vague about what's written in article 19 itself. You're talking about the local authorities and the government again. Is there a difference here whose business premises, who owns the business space, how they are assigned, are we talking about various abuses when it comes to the assignment of business space and the lease of business space and the abuse of investment maintenance, fictitious, real, etc.? There's a lot of problems about this matter, and it's not just this one member that can regulate themselves like that just to be mentioned. That's why we said we couldn't do it like this, we don't need this member here, but, of course, in other laws, in other acts, this is regulated. We hope in an acceptable way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9547	Believers, you're way out of line. Thank you. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. I'm sorry. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9548	Article 19 is directly related, even in our interpretation, to Article 18. Article 18 defines how a beneficiary of a budget may and often does so to rent some rooms owned by another user. So there's a building, there's a floor that belongs to someone and someone else or the ministry or service goes into that space. We say – well, the lease won't pay, but Article 19 says it has to pay the costs incurred, the costs of ongoing investment maintenance, or the lease on the basis of the criteria set by the Government. So if it doesn't exist and they're direct users then they won't pay the rent. But these direct costs have to be paid, because otherwise, the ministry or the user will have expenses that you wouldn't have had if that space hadn't given to someone else. It's the only purpose of this, to say in the budget, that we maintain that discipline. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9549	What kind of replica is this to you? Not at all. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: what you promised me this morning.) You said you'd be looking for a stenogram. Yes, it does. It does. It does. It does. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No name? It says, it writes. Read it out to your colleagues. The 19th amendment was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: you mentioned me by name. It is, as the honourable MP said. If that's not nice, let me tell you an honourable MP, I don't know what it is. You know how stingy I am in those compliments, Your Honor, when someone is not correct. I really said what the honourable MP said. The 19th amendment was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Ana Stevanović submitted to the 19th amendment. The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9550	Thank you. In the amendment, I stated that other public funds users, who use business space and movable things managed by direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the budget of local authorities, pay the costs incurred, the costs of current and investment maintenance, according to the criteria prescribed by the Government, and publish them at the monthly level at the internet presentation of the body paying the costs in question and guided by the criteria in question. The reasoning states that it cannot define the government's and the local authorities' obligations to publish on the website criteria for paying the costs incurred due to the use of business space by other users, which are not direct or indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The government says it allegedly cannot define obligations, and on the other hand, obligations are prescribed to adopt the criteria prescribed by the government. In other words, they can write out commitments for the government, but they can't do that for other budget users. As with the previous explanation of the amendment, I conclude that this is not logical at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9551	Thank you. The 19th Amendment was filed by Alexander Chabrai. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Tomislav LJubenović and Milorad Mirčić, together Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. First word has Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9552	Thank you, President. The member speaks of the Serbian government being able to write off debts to certain economic operators or convert them into capital. Is it possible that in the second year of salary cuts and pensions, in which the public debt has reached 74% of GDP, in which excise collection is again announced, where there is no money for salaries of higher education employees, in which the enlighteners ask you for 15 000 dinars via television one-time assistance, you decide that the government can continue to take over the debts of certain businesses, and yet in reason you are telling us that it is for some purpose of achieving stability and improving the general state of affairs in Serbia? Here, explain to us, obviously, that none of the MPs who have submitted the same amendment asking you to delete this generous offer that you make to certain economic operators, it is not clear to anyone how you can have the money to take on the debts of certain economic operators at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that you have no money to pay back or raise wages, or pay back what it was, or for one-time assistance, or for the Youth Fund, or for nothing other than what we have proposed in these two days of debate. I cannot accept, Mr. Vujovic, that there is no money for young talent, and that you have to take on the debts of failed public enterprises and other business entities, also failed, obviously, but I don't know what you would take on their debts, unless, again, it's some kind of private deal that you need to inform us about right away, because it's obviously all you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9553	The word has Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9554	Thank you. In addition to the reasons set out in the explanation, this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group submitted because we are in Article 20. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 recognized something that we do not like, something that the SRS has warned many times so far, which is the intention of disowning in a hidden way the state is seeking its resources on the basis of loans paid on the basis of guarantees issued to economic operators, and it is known that in most cases it is public enterprises, because for their loans, which they did not have, the state was providing guarantees. Article 20 allows the Government to waive its assets owed to it on this basis, by turning those claims into capital or simply write off their claims. Of course, there is a much smaller problem with turning into capital, but this article also provides for the possibility of write-offs, which means spending funds from budgets into public enterprises. The Serbian Radical Party opposes the government's behaviour with the state register and believes it is extremely non-domestic behaviour. On the one hand, we also have a clear impact on citizens through the reduction of wages and pensions, while on the other hand we have the opportunity to write off loans or funds paid by the state as a guarantee, and when public enterprises, which took loans, were not able to pay off the dues of these loans. It is important to point out that this draft budget law for 2017 also provides for a guarantee of 24.9 billion dinars from the Republic of Serbia, Article 3. The bill, and that's precisely for loans from public enterprises to Serbia's Elektroprivredija, Serbiagas...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9555	Thank you. Minister, I'll give my word first to all the promoters, then you. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9556	Thank you. Article 20 is, if you trust the Minister of Finance, the reason why this year's deficit will be as much as next year will be 1.7% again, because we listened to the minister, he explained here in principle that we have a primary surplus, but then when other things are added, and these are these other things. So, the write-off of public enterprises' debts, i.e. taking a commitment from the state first, and then the write-off or possible execution of those obligations, which the government then assumed, are the reason for the deficit. What the government is doing, I can understand as a policy, but I think this is one way for the state to assume the obligation and responsibility of those who made the commitment. If under this member of the budget, obligations will be regulated, let's say, "Smederevo Irons", let's see who is responsible for 145m euros in debt only in 2015, or over 250m since 2012. If this member of the law is going to be Petrochemy, let's see why the debt in 2015 is three times higher, or loss, from 17 to 51m euros, and the prices of the imput were lower. Who's responsible for that? It's not in the law and there's no government's intention, because there were people the government had set up. I wonder if the government put them there to solve and improve the performance of these companies, or to draw money from them to private accounts of individuals from the top of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9557	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9558	Thank you very much. We've heard from my predecessors what the idea is. The idea is that the state, that the government can decide on write-offs, and then write the same unusual thing for the law. He writes: to decide on write-off, then “hair line” and “or.” It's not in the law. I don't know who your legal editor was, but that's not a good thing. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, it is said that this allows for the completion of the privatisation process, at least in terms of my amendment, which is a little difficult to understand, but I'm afraid it creates opportunities for many bad things. I'm going to tell you one example of what can happen when according to contractual obligations, according to the obligations of the law, the government can behave resolutely. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about you in general. We have in Paracina a Serbian glass factory Paracin, which was privatized and reprivatised a few, five, six, seven years ago, bought by some company from Bulgaria, a Rubin, and a voice. In the past 16 months, they owe "Srbigas" 30m euros, writes here, and to EPS 60,000 euros. The owner of the company that privatized it is called Cvetan Vasilev, who is being chased by the Bulgarian state, who is on an international warrant, which is in our possession, I can tell you on which street, and which country our country does not deliver. The gas debts remain, electricity debts remain, we keep a criminal under the State's patronage, and that all allows the laws that are on the trail of this member whose erasure we seek. I think we all agree it's inadmissible. I'm asking you to take this seriously. Privatisation had its controversies, it has no doubt, but this way will certainly not be over. I will also ask a formal question – why does the state of Serbia keep a criminal under protection?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9559	Thank you, MP. We're just way out of time. The minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9560	Let's be specific first. I once again looked closely, I remember when we wrote, a team from the Ministry of Finance, this member. We didn't mean the claims, we didn't mean the old debts. Debts are taken over, not by the government, but by the Public Debt Act. Therefore, this member is not in debt. Secondly, here is the word, first and foremost – the government decides. So there's a document here with some analysis and the government explicitly decides and accepts responsibility. So what's most important in this whole process, regardless, is that this is solved from case to case, by explicit government conclusion, and therefore it's true who decides, on what proposal, the consequences are both fiscal and everything else. That means the government decides. But, you know, be careful. Secondly, this applies only to loans, which are again the result of government decisions. So right now, let me give you an example, that we're not taking things that you're going to interpret politically. RTS has an extended loan and now it's a question of whether this loan, whether they will find a way back or it will be, let's say, if something like privatisation is going on, and this is meant to be written, will it, and now this "and/or" just means – can be partly written off, and partly converted into capital that can be managed further in the process of restructuring, bankruptcy, privatisation or anything else. What does that mean? This means that the state, based on previous decisions on loan, which are specific decisions, on guarantees that were special decisions on the acceptance of guarantees and thus the activation of these guarantees, that afterwards and there in the Privatisation Act, which we prepared three years ago, reads: "in order and as part of seeking a permanent sustainable solution to offer this". So this is not given blankly, this is not given in advance, but as an integral part or pre-prepared restructuring or privatisation programme or some other strategic solution to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9561	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9562	No problem, I'll just finish another half sentence. So in this context, this is proposed and solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9563	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. No, there's no replica, everything was in phenomenal tone. The 20th amendment was submitted by Goran Ciric. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Bozidar Delic, Milorad Mircic and Vladimir Djuric. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 21st Amendment was filed by Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9564	Thank you. Here, I'll read article 21. In 2017, transactions with financial derivatives may be concluded, in accordance with a standardised framework contract on financial derivatives which is common in business practice, i.e. in a manner common in business practice, in order to protect against change of foreign exchange rate and/or the risk of change of interest rates relating to loans and government securities of value completed, or issued in accordance with this law and/or earlier applicable laws on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, since this member leaves a variety of possibilities for the conclusion of transactions for financial derivatives, the amendment that we have submitted to this member is added: "The jobs completed in accordance with the provisions of the position of the first member are published at the monthly level at the internet presentation of the body that concludes the cases in question. Every month no later than the 20th of the current month, and for the previous month, all authorities and the Ministry of Finance will publish all the jobs that have been completed in accordance with the provisions of the first position of this member. “ This will enable you to see exactly what jobs these are, as well as that all that is concluded by this article is completely transparent, available to everyone, I hope and clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9565	The 21st Amendment was submitted by Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9566	Thank you. I have proposed by the amendment that the tasks completed in accordance with the provisions of the position of the first member must be published every month on the web presentation of the body which concludes the cases. Every month no later than the tenth in the current month, and for the previous month, all authorities and the Ministry of Finance publish all the jobs that have been completed in accordance with the provisions of the position of the first member. “ It explains that all obligations and claims based on transactions with financial derivatives will be shown in financial reports. On the basis of the above, I conclude that the proposing does not distinguish the basic concepts of reporting and notifying. Reports are mandatory and nothing is disputed, but I am talking about public and citizens who can access these data at any moment via an Internet presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9567	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9568	I've been reported 21, but you haven't seen me. Let's move on to this 22. I don't know why accounting regulations would be present in the Budget Law. You have now prescribed here – there is no depreciation in 2017. How can this member be in this law? Dilemma. How can it be, for example, Article 21, which speaks of trading financial derivatives – forvordes, futures, options? So these members are needed to disabling the provisions of a number of other regulations. There, that's the whole operation. The 2017 Budget Act will be a small constitution, and that's why they put everything and everything into this, so that they can also write off, burzarski. You have a public enterprise with a debt of a billion and 600m euros, its capital is not even 800m euros, the terrace. It'll all come into the story of selling banks. And you cried at Young Dinkic and those who did these things. What are you doing? You keep going at Dinkic's footsteps. And this 15 seconds, hurry to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9569	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by Jovo Ostojic and Milorad Mircic. The word is Jovo Ostojić here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9570	Members of Parliament, President, pursuant to Article 161(1) and (3) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 20/12, are submitted to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, the next amendment. Amendment 27. The proposal for a law is ‘expunged’. Explanation, proposed resolution of amendments to Article 23. It's a bill of law. The explanation of the proposed solution "amendment is deleted" Article 23, as everything regulated by the said article has already been contained in other laws and the Budget Act. So, in fact, this Article 23 is only renewed, it brings nothing new, but it has it in other laws, especially in the Budget Law. It must not be changed by material law. The budget law is also a technical means of showing, in numerical terms, everything that represents rights, obligations and responsibilities. If this article is already shown in the Budget Law in some way, and it is, we believe that this Article 23 should be deleted. The objective to achieve is to adopt the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9571	Thank you, MP. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ana Stevanović. Here you go. The word is Anna Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9572	Thank you, President. I have submitted an amendment relating to expenditures and expenditures, carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 1, must be published on a monthly basis at the Internet presentation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Every month, no later than the 10th of the month, and for the previous month, the government of the Republic of Serbia will announce all expenditures and expenditures carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 1. It is explained that the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia cannot define the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to publish on its internet presentation, i.e. publication of expenditure and expenditure of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Law on Payment Services, the terms and conditions of payment services, payment service providers, the area relating to confidentiality and the protection of payment service data are governed. So, the terms, the ways, the carriers of protection, the area are listed, but there's no transparency that I'm talking about. Does that mean the Budget Law doesn't oblige the government? The second point of view of the amendment does not confirm that the second regulation, in fact, provides for an obligation proposed by the amendment, but repeats what is proposed as the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9573	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9574	When we started proceedings before the Constitutional Court and asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and quite successful before the Constitutional Court that a large number of provisions of that law, that the Constitutional Court also declared that they were not in accordance with the Constitution, so practically in 2012, they are no longer part of that law. We had in mind that next to so-called. the original competences belonging to the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, can also entrust certain tasks under its jurisdiction to the AP. We were careful, and when we saw what the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 looked like and when we saw that article 7 of that law was written, and when we saw what you had all classified under the appropriate positions, economic classifications within the 8th article, then we think that the worse thing than the lack of a good law is this particular article that you practically interpret what you wrote in the previous members of the law. And this member of yours is completely unnecessary in this form to be in the draft law. Completely unnecessary, because all numerical numbers already exist in both Article 7 and Article 8 under appropriate positions. I agree, it's cloudy because you've made a mess of what's original and what's been passed on to jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9575	The 24th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: This amendment refers to the funds that are part of the National Investment Plan programme and we felt, we Serbian radicals that there should be no member, because special laws regulate ways of distribution of funds. Here, by numerical and contemplative terms, it's arranged for certain projects and their realization. Mr. Minister, the SRS is specifically against the continuation of the policy of Mladjan Dinkic, both you as a man and someone who has been an expert in other countries outside Serbia, you know very well that this policy, such state interventions, in a way that direct policy interferes with certain projects, as Dinkic and Verica Kalanovic imagined, can only harm the state. Instead, you were supposed to throw away something that existed back in Joseph Broz's day. You remember those loans for the rebirth of the '70s, the '80s that later led to a huge borrowing that the communist regime then brought us into, so we ended up with a few hundred billion dollars in foreign debt. You were supposed to focus as a government, as someone who represented himself, I mean SNS, as an opponent of the previous regime's policy on the development of industrial parks. You have the Law on Free Customs Areas, and you could have, instead of these subsidies that you give to foreign companies tens of thousands for each new job, to attract those companies and foreign capital, mostly Russian and Chinese, without such a condition that you develop a Serbian economy. Then, by filling the budget, the funds would be realised... I will continue, since it is a similar amendment to Article 26. Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9577	From year to year, there is a rather confusing written member in the budget to ensure the financing of the project, launched projects of the National Investment Plan until their completion. This budget is for 2017. The National Investment Plan started somewhere in 2006 and in 2007 projects began to be implemented. I just can't believe that ten years later there are projects that aren't finished. I again ask the question, or I can unfortunately believe that in the country of Serbia all this is happening, even so, and I ask the question of who is responsible for the fact that these things are not finished after ten years. And when they'll finally end. We're about to delete this member because he's not giving answers to these two questions. He does not give answers with what dynamics, when the projects from the National Investment Plan will end, who will be responsible for them. Here from the point of view, some funds are being transferred somewhere, competent ministries, administrations appear, and then the Ministry of Economy, and then the Department of Co-operation with churches and religious communities, and all of this is completely non-transparent and serves to cover the responsibility of those working on the completion of these projects. As long as the draft budget doesn't make it clear what amounts it is, which projects are still in place, when these projects end, we'll be able to delete one of these members. Of course, by erasing a member like this, those projects couldn't be completed. The question is, do they even have to finish? We can't discuss it when we have a budget written like this with this member of the budget that doesn't give us answers to key questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9578	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9579	Article 25 of the original text provides for the possibility of rerouting the resources of the National Investment Plan of the Office for Co-operation with churches and religious communities. The funds identified by the National Investment Plan in the budget are 422 million dinars on the 1505 programme, called Regional Development, Project 4001 - Support for local and regional infrastructure development. What does that have to do with churches, I ask? So the projects envisaged by the budget for the implementation of the Agency for Co-operation with churches and religious communities have nothing to do with the development of local and regional infrastructures. These projects are designed to support the work of monks and priests and rebuild church property. This is how the budget is declared and described, not local and regional infrastructures, so it makes no sense to convert the money allocated to the infrastructure into churches. We believe that citizens need infrastructure, not church facilities. So this amendment actually proposes to be through the text of Article 25. It explicitly makes it impossible for the Government to reroute the resources of the National Investment Plan, i.e. realizes the Church Co-operation Board. We think that something fundamental in this society is wrong with the distribution of money, and that is best seen when comparing the fleet in front of the Patriarchy and the state, for example, the municipal infrastructure in local communities or, say, the state of health institutions in local communities. Citizens can see it very easily. Finally, the government, in its explanation, rejected the amendment, saying it was funds intended for earlier commitments, probably after already launched projects. Then I have to ask - does this mean that we already have the means to develop the infrastructure to develop the church property. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9580	I can give you my word on the amendment. Can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Then by amendment.) You can discuss it by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9581	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll be very brief. I would never react, really, but if we're going to explain the amendment in such a way that it offends the church and our religious feelings, it's really a scandal. You had to react a little while ago. The man insulted our entire clergy, and he's sorry the money's going to build a church somewhere. I'm sorry, I'm very happy to invest in the temple of St. Sava, for example. And because we're going to have a magnificent object like that and because everyone's going to come visit it. I think it's something that's in the interest of this country. And this is how to insult the church and insult our clergy in the first place, it's really embarrassing and scandalous, and I'd ask you to react in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9582	Thank you. I can't... Wait, I'll give you my word. Just take it easy, I'll answer that, 'cause I've been called too. So, I don't want to react every time, all MPs' views should be heard. If MP Vladimir Djuric thus discusses it, it should be heard in public. It's not good for me to censor and interrupt. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9583	Thank you. Of course, I don't mind the clergy. I've been baptized, I'm a believer, I've been to more christening glory than on my own birthdays, I can say that freely. No one insulted the clergy. I mentioned a train park outside the Patriarchy. I don't mind having priests drive cars whatever they want, but I just think that citizens are being prevented from equipping health homes at the level of local communities and local infrastructures. By amendment to Article 8, we also proposed that certain funds intended for the Office for Co-operation with the Churches be realised, I explain why I do not insult the priests, so we proposed that part of the funds be realised in the equipment of health homes at the level of local self-government, and that we did not touch administrative funds intended for the Office for Co-operation with churches and social security contributions. We just suggested that the church also understand that we are in a difficult economic situation, to refrain from our projects for a while, until we have the homes of health and other health institutions at the level of local communities. I am sure that respected priests understand how difficult the situation is for citizens and not to see a problem in such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9584	Thank you. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9585	Thank you. It refers to the final position of this member where both churches and religious communities appear. We have pointed out several times publicly that we believe that the church should not appear as an investor, especially when it comes to objects that are not intended for religious use, since it is known that the church is building facilities that have commercial purposes. These are different tourist facilities, etc. The question is, what kind of objects that haven't ended for 11 years, why don't they end, is there any chance that they can be finished? That is why we suggest that this position of this member be deleted, if not the whole member, because you should really see whether these objects, which 11 years cannot be completed, should be completed at all. Obviously there are some bit more serious problems than the fact that, year after year, year after year, the same member appears constantly in every budget that we adopt or still need to change something, because something a little bit more serious isn't right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9586	Thank you. All I have to say is that I promised Ambassador Mark Djurisic if I mentioned his last name that I would give the replica. I mentioned his last name. He said he wouldn't replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9587	Thank you, President. No, of course not, the discussion is over and I don't want to use that time, but I just wanted to make sure I was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9588	It's fair to admit if I made a mistake. Yeah, I made a mistake. I'm sorry. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The 26th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and jointly by Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9589	Mrs. Gojkovic, let me continue this story about the NIP. So, Dinkic and DS, and you continue on that path, gentlemen of the Progressives, used projects from the NIP to take pictures in campaigns, open schools, kindergartens, roads, and that was a huge source of corruption. To this day we don't have a report, someone here mentioned how those funds were used, how much they were taken for themselves and how they were assigned. We have the case, Mrs. Gojkovic, since you are the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, the Arandelovic "Old Building", and you know, and I believe some MPs in the hall, that this is an object of national importance and these funds from the NIP that were defined for the "Old Building" in Arangelovac were used only for a little patching of the roof. Now privatisation has been annulled, it is failing, as many have started projects that served as a political promotion. We must, and that will be done by us Serbian radicals, our candidate for president, who I believe is the future president of Serbia, and if we have parliamentary emergency elections everywhere and in every place to tell Serbian citizens that it is not the job of politicians to deal with the economy in this way. Be able to bring foreign investors who will not take money from Serbia's budget, but by example to the countries of the Eurasian Union and China, which I mentioned. Make industrial parks, activate free zones. We passed the law back in 2007. You hire people and real and big world companies, if you're capable, for jobs that will be properly paid. Open such factories here in Serbia. Although Jeremiah and the likes of him, who goes and gets paid, who knows where the stones of money in the world I end up here, but you do so, and not as the steps of the predecessors, Dinkic, Tadic, Jeremic and others, to destroy the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9590	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9591	Article 26 continues to deal with how the National Investment Plan will continue to be spent. In this article, we had an intervention to submit once a year to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the National Investment Plan projects. So what I was saying about the previous amendment and what's our problem with these members is that MPs don't know what the projects are, how much more time it takes for them to end, who are the responsible people who don't finish these jobs, here's 11 years as they start. They weren't I don't know what kind of projects they couldn't finish in two, three, four years. They were mostly small projects in a lot of places. Someone's gonna say so someone can take a picture for the election. It was an idea for the money to be distributed capillaryly throughout Serbia, so that Serbian citizens could quickly see some results. Obviously, in some projects, it didn't happen. Was there an abuse? Sure. With so much budget, there must have been some abuse. I don't see any problem talking about it and seeing who's responsible for it. The worst thing that's happening right now is that they're always the ex-boyfriends accusing themselves of being thieves, that they did this or that, and there's no evidence of such claims. It's all going down in the political arena, accusing each other of one thing or another, and no one has any evidence of such things. So please accept this amendment. I don't see what's controversial. You're talking about some sort of regulation that the Assembly is reporting under. It's not being reported under that regulation, let me tell you right now. I've never seen that report. I don't know where he gets lost or if he really exists. I don't see what the problem is to submit once a year a report to the Assembly on the implementation of the National Investment Plan programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9592	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the 27th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Momcilo Mandic and Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9593	This whole part is made up. Unlike the previous part of the budget where there are a lot of numbers, there aren't many numbers here but there's a lot of words, confusing sentences that you can't figure out what the intention is. What's the point? This Article 28 speaks of the use of funds to implement project investment maintenance and immovable property management. Instead of providing us with this plan together with the budget, the government tells us – over the next year, as long as the budget goes, the state will invest in this, this and this, this and this, this much funding, something will end longer or shorter, and the government will allow this to decide on its own for an indefinite period of time in which funds will be spent, related to investment maintenance, to be determined on a proposal from the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. We don't think this is how it's supposed to be done. If we want to have a transparent budget, that both MPs and citizens know how all citizens of the Republic of Serbia spend their funds, then it is normal for all these items to be clearly shown in the budget. That together with the budget, as we will adopt the plans of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Pension Fund, I don't know either, the Ways of Serbia and other major users, the budgetary resources, be this plan for the use and implementation of projects and that we know what it is and then that, when the end of the year comes, we see what's done, what's not finished, who's been responsible for some of the jobs that have been completed, to praise that person, and one that's not to be replaced. It is a responsible behaviour towards the money of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9594	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9595	Thank you. I would like to propose a special act on the Internet presentation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and the Internet presentation of the subjects of the initiative to publish the funds for the implementation of investment maintenance and immovable management projects, as well as a proposal for a Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and the initiative of other direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources. In an explanation of my rejected amendment, the government states that a special act governing the schedule and use of funds for the implementation of the investment maintenance and real estate management project is being published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", which, according to the proposal, meets the condition of transparency in spending budgets. I also inquired about the circulation of "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", which is 4,400 copies. So this little circulation needs to ensure transparency. Does the promoter really think that this number of copies is enough for all interested public and all citizens to have insight into the spending of funds? The publication in the "Official Messenger" has been overcome and completely insufficient and cannot possibly meet the condition of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9596	Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9597	The one who wrote this article's proposal on 28th is guaranteed by Vukic, in confidence, whispered that there will be parliamentary elections, because this member is indeed preparing to open any repairs and repairs, toilets, courtyards, facades, etc. Because it will be on the initiative of the officials in whose division this is envisaged and the Director of the Republic Property Directorate. So the soul gave for the election campaign, but of course we have no idea what it is. In particular, in any part of Serbia, no buildings, no investment, nothing, it's all a state secret or a secret of one man, and then in the campaign we'll be amazed at what's been done or what's being prepared for work. In the light of the rejection of the amendments, I am finding something interesting here, which in Article 28 is not, that part of this refers to investments defined by the Foreign Ministry, as well as other direct budget users depending on the established state of the facilities concerned, etc. I find this interesting to me, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I wonder and ask the government's representatives -- does this refer to objects owned by the Republic of Serbia in the white world? What about the facilities where we owned? How were they sold, in what way, how much money did Serbia get, which role, under quotes, was "fair" Vuk Jeremic in the past in all of this? So, please Minister, if they have answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9598	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9599	This Article 28 is linked to Article 27, but I cannot possibly understand the reason for not accepting amendments that are the same for these members, because Article 28 does not mention either the foreign minister or the investment maintenance of objects abroad. I can understand that the Ministry of Finance, which I suppose, prepared these answers, had little time, so maybe it made a mistake. Because it can't be done this way, it has nothing to do with what's written in the reasons for not accepting the amendments, not with the content of the amendments, not with the content of the members. But I can understand the mistake, because the Ministry had little time, as we had even less time. I know we made some mistakes. I believe it's the Ministry of Finance's fault, but it would be nice to say that. The problem with these members is lack of transparency. The fact that, together with the budget, this investment maintenance programme is not adopted, that we see exactly how much funding and for what purposes it will be spent, and not now, obviously in the campaign that follows us, it will open up construction sites, for painting, for changing windows, I don't know what else I believe, as Mrs Radeta, a colleague, said, that there should be answers to questions in the past, how funds have been spent. I believe that's why Vuk Jeremic was so expressly called to the police, that if tomorrow he went and checked in and I don't know there, he shared everything he knows, so if the prosecutor already asks him -- what was it about rebuilding the building abroad, I believe he'll give an answer. But it's a good thing the state is so fast now, I see, reacting, so I expect the prime minister to be invited to say very quickly what complete idiots that then staged the collapse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9600	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Ljiljana Mihajilovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9601	Several months ago, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia found that, I believe, two members, from two laws concerning judges and courts, were not in line with the Constitution and the law. Or the Constitution. This essentially concerns a much less significant issue, operationally very important for the functioning of the judiciary, but behold, the Constitutional Court has decided. If the Constitutional Court took a look at this Article of the 29th bill, it would likely be made clear and said – by law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, these issues concerning organisation and financial, if possible, financial operations of the Supreme Council of the judiciary cannot be resolved. He might not say that, though, given that new judges are about to be picked. It is likely that the old ones will be re-elected, who said that the Brussels Agreement is a political pamphlet, not a legal act, because it does not produce a legal fact and does not oblige anyone to respect it, so that is all possible. So, in Omnibus, we have everything and everything, so after this, you don't need these other regulations at all, because from the 9th to 40th, there are sublegal standards, norms from some laws, and imaginations on how to play some law, and everything is just with financial stability and a very difficult situation in which Serbia is. I suggest you adopt these amendments and bring down the Law on the RS budget, to what the neighbours would say - the budget. Just the budget. More digits than text.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9602	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9603	Thank you very much. The idea of the amendment is to change the start of Article 29, which says – the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is responsible for giving orders to transfer funds, etc., and that it says that the High Council of the judiciary is responsible for this, not the President of the High Council. And this is my attempt to disburse the wearers of the highest functions of the obligation they don't need. Easier without samar, easier without obligations, which are otherwise discriminatory and give one great level of occupancy. In response to the amendment, the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 6(2). The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary prescribed that the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary represent the Council, manages its work and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. Is this an argument for my proposal? This, how defined is the position of President of the High Council, is an argument to my proposal? That the High Council, by budget, gets the authority to share funds, and then the president of the council, under his jurisdiction under the Law on the High Council of the judiciary to determine whether he will do so, will make some standard when he can't, when he can't, he can transfer it to the secretary, he can empower a fifth person. The amendment, which I have made, I repeat, as well as in the case of ministers, relieves individuals of Caesarist privileges, and thus also the risk of them making mistakes, or worse, to do something intentionally wrong, and to put it in the system for the institutions to be in charge of something, and the one who currently runs that institution, under the law defining the work of the institution, assumes its part of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9604	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9605	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that all orders be given by the President of the High Council of the Court of Justice for the transfer of funds made on the basis of the collection of court fees must be announced on a monthly basis, not later than 10 a month for the previous month, on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the judiciary. It is explained that the Law on the Budgetary System, the Budgetary Accounting Regulation and the Regulation on how to prepare, draw up and submit financial reports of beneficiaries of budgetary resources, beneficiaries of mandatory social security organisations and budget funds, the prescribed manner and deadlines for submitting financial reports for all budget users, including the High Judicial Council. Thus, the Proposer considers that there is no basis for this law to prescribe for only one body different deadlines and reporting methods. Furthermore, I quote, the judicial authorities are involved in the budget implementation system, so that their business, as well as the business of direct budget users, is very visible in the system. I ask the Proposer, what methodology is it possible to establish the term “very visible”? Let me explain, first of all, it is said that an obligation cannot be established for one organ, and I am establishing the same obligation for all. If you stick to that attitude that you cannot establish a commitment, why in the second sentence of the amendment's reasoning, the Proposer now explains where the prescribed obligation is, which the government previously said cannot establish. So it remains completely unclear whether the Proposer can establish it, cannot establish it or does not exist at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9606	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9607	Full transparency and transparency are key to fighting corruption. They're the key to introducing order, they're the key to seeing how the taxpayers' money is being spent, how effectively does the state administration work in all possible areas, how well and domestically behave? Full transparency should apply to all state authorities, that everyone publishes, every month for the previous month, and how much money was spent, and to whom exactly the money went, means the list of legal and natural persons who got the money. Not employees, but contract workers. All contracts must be published. It's the only and best way to prevent corruption, which eats away at the budget, eating away at public finances. So this amendment, as well as many of the other amendments that we have submitted today, is looking for this complete transparency, and each of them has been refused by the government. There is no reason why not all state authorities make every month, transparently, for the previous month, announce that every dinar from the budget has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9608	Thank you, colleague Radulovic. There's no more of your parliamentary group time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9609	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I will be very brief on this. I already don't know which way the amendment is where one political party, by all accounts, is what we can conclude here, like it's got a deed and it's like they invented the Internet. From the very entry into parliament, the only thing that matters to them is the Internet, the Internet, the Internet. Indeed, if something hadn't been published on the Internet, it wouldn't exist. And we can understand, because they seem to be the only ones on the Internet that can be in some majority, on the Internet can give Serbian citizens a better life, better conditions, but I'm afraid that, and fortunately, Serbia's citizens, everything on that internet will just stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9610	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You're not right, colleague Radulovic. He didn't mention the name or the MP's club, nothing. Please don't. (Saša Radulovic, from town: The party is mentioned. It's not at any time. No, no. It has been said -- one parliamentary group, not a party, is not even the name of the parliamentary group. You know how many MPs we have. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: To me it is clear who it refers to. I don't get it. Here, I don't get it. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9611	I am personally a great supporter of transparency and reporting of all data, but in accordance with all the laws that apply to us. Therefore, we cannot disclose data on individual transactions, we cannot disclose data that has not passed a proper consistency check, audits and government decisions, if it is information that the government is competent to decide on, we cannot ask for things. Now I'm going to quote examples from my experience where some independent authorities are asking for the information that someone has received on official duty, and there's no right to hold and report. So it's an eclectic example of a violation of the data principle. He's got no right. A militiaman has the right to legitimateize you, but he has no right to share your personal information further. What I received as a request from the Ministry of Finance was that the Ministry of Finance provided an insight into the documents it received to assess, under official duty, state aid issues, issues of some measures, issues of some contracts, etc. Thus, we must avoid such examples. So, I repeat, with full responsibility, yes, I am a supporter of full transparency, full reporting. We're doing everything in our jurisdiction to get the final accounts done. I expect that we will very soon complete the final account for 2015, and I expect that in all the elements of this budget that we are now adopting, we will do so in the next year. I also accept the implicit suggestions of a number of MPs here, that this part of Article 9 through the end, is the result, I think, of unsettled introduction of certain legal solutions and their precision in order to provide all the necessary sides for the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9612	You're bringing the end of Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9613	It is entirely in the place of suggestion that this is resolved by the laws that these areas naturally belong to and when we have it settled then next year, hopefully, we will be able to say – in Article 9, the following laws regulate the implementation of the budget and only to specify the names of these laws and that we do not have to repeat all this stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9614	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You don't have any right to say anything, Mr. Radulovic. (Saša Radulovic, from place: Do not let me read attitude 104) Come on, read me item 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9615	The position of the 104th tells you - if the MP, and also the speaker, in his presentation at the National Assembly session, is offensive to the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, you have the right to replication. It doesn't mean you can decide how to think about it. If this is true, and it is true, both in the case of the first address of SNS MPs and in the case of the minister, allow one normal discussion and respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9616	Mr. Radulovic, the point is that the minister has made some facts, he has not misread you, and in some ways even expressed his agreement with your amendment. Now I don't understand - what are you misread? (Saša Radulovic, from the site: Why are you so anxious to prevent two minutes of conversation? ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9617	It's a similar reason as my previous amendment, with the State Council of Prosecutors being involved. I'm asking that the amendment, instead of the President of the State's Attorney General, be responsible for the transfer of funds and all that other stuff. Again in my explanation, I have the answer that by law, Article 6 paragraph 2. The State Council of Prosecutors Act is prescribed that the President of the State Council represents the state council and manages its work and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. That's exactly what I'm suggesting, Mr. Secretary with the associates. That is exactly what I propose, under this law, that this position should be changed, that the State Council should have that responsibility, and in accordance with the State Council Act, responsibility within its jurisdiction will be assumed either by the President or by someone else. So, once again, I'm trying to protect against error, intentional or unintentional, resulting from knowledge or ignorance or too much knowledge. He can study sometimes, make mistakes that are inadmissible. The other day, we had an example of a top executive saying we hadn't fought in 17 years and it's a record. That high-ranking executive has no idea. We haven't fought in 45 years. So tell Wolf Alexander 17 years without wars is not a record.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9618	I don't see what that has to do with your amendment. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9619	Thank you. Let me get this straight. The Budget Law does not determine the jurisdiction of the VSS, nor of the State Council of Prosecutors, because it is already prescribed by the Law on the VSS and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors, where they are just prescribing why these authorities are competent when it comes to the allocation of funds from the budget. And the law on court fees is just mentioned here, which is part of the court's fees that is distributed to the salaries of court employees and prosecutors, and the budget law in this part only prescribes the procedure in which these funds are redistributed and who is responsible. So the Budget Law does not establish the jurisdiction of these bodies already established by other laws. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9620	You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: How? The Minister thought of me. Maybe she was thinking about you, but she didn't say anything wrong about you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic jointly submitted the 31st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very specific amendment, I propose an increase in local self-government of financial resources. You, as the worst government in Serbia's history, have taken five billion dinars from local governments this year alone. The Serbian Progressive Party, in five years' time, has seized 50 billion dinars of corrupt government by local self-government. And that's where you get that fake surplus you're talking about, while the citizens on the other side are starving. I am sorry that your MPs who come from the bar, like Mr. Markovic, say in the halls that this is a scandal about local self-government, and here they have to raise their hands or ring when you press that bell. That shouldn't be the role of MPs. What you have brought local self-governments, even those in which you rule, says that in the King you are the best investment, you are opening a traffic light, while on the other hand on the Vozdovec, you, as an advanced, are opening a walking crossing. So what are we going to do now, can open? Will it be a successful project by Alexander Vukic and... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: So why did you turn off my microphone, please? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9622	Mr. Milojitsu... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: You have no electricity. ) Mr. Milojic, I just wanted to tell you, to remind you that in your amendment you asked to increase the amount for your municipality of Smederjevska Palanka and to subtract the amount from the city of Novi Sad. Now, explain in the remaining 35 seconds why you're asking to shrink the New Sad, that's what the Novosadians would like to hear, what the Democratic Party wants, and why to increase... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Just give me your word.) I'll give you my word. Here you go, 35 seconds more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9623	Because, Mr. Arsic, that's why Novi Sad is ahead of the investment. I couldn't wait for you to ask me that, that's the subject. The new Sad is opening up a bike store. The mayor of Novi Sad, even more embarrassing, with the presence of Serbia's Army General Minister Djordjevic, opens the gate. Well, is every morning when he comes out of the bedroom and it's opening up a new investment? It is a disgrace to the citizens of Serbia. Shame! (Igor Becic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9624	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9625	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. I don't understand that the man who destroyed his local self-government, who translated his business into a football club, which is like the Democratic Party that for all these years destroyed everything it could have destroyed, is named Mayor of Novi Sad, who opened up jobs, which opened thousands of jobs in Novi Sad, which carried out investments in Novi Sad. How can you not be ashamed? I ask you, Chairman, to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, not to allow people in this way to muddle people who work in the interests of their citizens and to raise the quality of their citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9626	Tell me, Mr. Becic, was it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 107? (Igor Becic, from the place: Yes, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I do not ask the Assembly to plead, because these lies that the predecessor had told... No, there's no need for real. So you're not looking. I'm taking a five-minute break, because I think the atmosphere came up because we haven't rested, we'll continue, and I'm done thinking about Milojic, so let's see what I can do. Five minutes break, we haven't had a break, I think it's time. [[After a break.]] Now let's go to the replicas. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9628	Thank you, Madam President. It's a shame we have some things to explain, even though they're perfectly clear to a reasonable man. It's a shame we have to do this just because some people keep trying to get a little attention for themselves. But that may be the least of the problems, seeing all of these people watching and seeing and understanding. Maybe it's a bigger problem when it's done both rawly and primitively, and it literally draws attention here. It's a much bigger problem and it's a principle note. He's learning old wisdom, ladies and gentlemen - noise is neither song nor proof. We've already talked, some ways are absolutely not how you become a good MP. It's a shame there are people who keep refusing to draw a certain conclusion in that direction. It is mentioned by the SNS, and it resents us and our local representatives, in many places, as the results are in terms of building some infrastructure, which is what results are in terms of establishing a certain signalling and we have listened to it today. Which is all, every such result, is marked. It is truly strange that someone contests the right to see any effort, to challenge the right of some people, even symbolicly, by putting them through the presence of competent people from the local community to be rewarded, by saying, yes, the community is what you managed to build, raise, install important, and thank you for that. It's really strange that something like that comes precisely from those who have referred to their communities in the most arrogant, ugliest way possible, left them in debt to their throat, the only thing left to them today is that they honor us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9629	Thank you, MP. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9630	Thank you, Chairman. It is clear here that the previous speaker had nothing to do with the draft budget, that he did not talk about the amendments, that he was not talking about the draft budget, but that he was talking about some false things, in a way completely inappropriate for the House of the People's Assembly, that he was insulting here both the ministers and us as MPs. I know he has nothing to say about the draft budget, because he doesn't care about the budget, when he can only abuse the budget. He's not interested in saving fiscal consolidation because he can't do it, he's only used to haughtiness and thieving. He is not interested in responsible financial policy, for it is an example of an irresponsible policy that he showed in his municipality, for example. He doesn't care how to stop the trend in public debt, because he only knows how to make a debt and to owe his municipality. He left three billion debts, three billion. One more thing, I don't know why she's mentioning Novi Sad. The new Sad has become the capital of European culture these days, while in their time it was the capital of European corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9631	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9632	A beautiful event that took place in Novi Sad, which is one municipality and one city cares about its army, is shown here in one ugly way, and instead of being proud and an example of how others should treat their army, has shown that some others don't feel that way about their army, that they think uglyly and that everything that is given and that is essentially donated is one ugly way and they say that it shouldn't be done. Irony is even greater in the fact that it is done by someone who has allowed one in their municipality to fail, the price of water to be expensive, that perhaps in the name of it there may be no water in the municipality buying and sharing beer instead of that water, and that it is still unintentional. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9633	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Radoslav Milojic, from town: For the price of water only, the cheapest is water. Don't. Okay, the cheapest, the expensive, it doesn't matter. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9634	These amendments and this one of mine, I'm not going to accuse those colleagues who have submitted similar amendments, but they may look like local patriotic amendments. Let's just go for Palanca, a little Nis, a little Kragujevac, a little bit for I don't know which other and that, of course, isn't the point. The goal is, at least on my part, I'm sure colleagues have that ambition, too, to point to the complete inequality of municipalities and cities in relation to the money they've been allocated on this basis. It's said there are some criteria, I haven't seen what they're like. But by what criteria, say, Leskovac can get almost 30% more non-intentional transfers from Nis? By what? It's smaller, it's poor in both Nis and Leskovec, I don't know what the reason is. Or how New Pazar can get, with all due respect to the inhabitants of New Pazar, political institutions, that's not the subject, but it's a city that's a hundred and a few thousand people smaller than Nis, and it only gets 70 million less? The vulture is half as small as Nis, he gets 300 million more. It would be good for the minister to give us an explanation of the criteria that led to the fact that we have these unexpected figures that are like the extraction of the lottery, so what turns out to be. Either there's some personal animosity or some personal sympathy for some city, whether it's because of the tattoo, whether it's because of the first love, if I don't know why, the election results, but generally there's no system here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Thank you, Minister, for the answer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9635	Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9636	In the explanation given or given, Mr. Minister, by rejecting my amendment, among other things, you said that by deploying these funds of non-purpose transfer, you respected the criteria set out in the Law on the financing of local self-government. I say it's not exactly like that. Let there be some who have little understanding of these criteria, who have read little of it, who are interested and who understand and what is the equation as a criterion and what is compensation and what is solidarity and what is the functional part and what is the general part. So if they understand that, they have to say that something is wrong. If that's all right, how do you say, very well-intentioned I'm saying this, of course, how do I explain the case of Triestelic and Kragujevac? The Trieste is five times smaller per population and per area, there are some developments, Kragujevac has fallen a lot, so they are somewhere, and there are 40 million more resources in this part. The king, an incomparably smaller town than Kragujevac, has almost twice as much resources. Knic, an undeveloped municipality next door, only 50% smaller and almost ten times smaller than Kragujevac. At the same time, the town of Novi Sad, and I will try to explain why, without, of course, nothing against Novi Sad, the most developed city in Serbia, the big city, which has twice the population of Kragujevac and about 50-60 thousand more than Nis, Novi Sad has assets of 918 million, Nis 663 million, Kragujevac 426 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9637	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9638	Here, just a sentence. I asked for the New Sad to be stripped of 100 million, for the Kragujevac to get 80 million...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9639	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slavisa Ristic, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Slavisa Ristic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. First of all, the People's Parliament of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9640	In Article 34. The bill provides for an amount of 100m euros on a proposal from the finance ministry, and in order to produce possible or eliminate the consequences of emergency circumstances that could endanger life, people's health, etc., to cause damage. When this is on the agenda and on the subject, we again lack a report on the spending on those floods that took place in Serbia three years ago. It's not the way it was presented in the media today, we have unfinished facilities in Krupanj, we have houses that haven't been fixed, even though they were really damaged in the floods. We just can't get to this. You're all talking about transparency, but we can't get to really say it once -- here's the people this way, this cost this much, we got this much money, this much credit, this one gave us, that one gave us, that one loaned us. So, we don't have anything concrete on which we could conclude that you and this projected asset, don't let God need you, don't let God need those funds, but we need to know that those that are also spent, don't God forbid we should and we didn't have them. Then, of course, the question arises in this context, who is bothered by the help of the Russian Federation, their Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and today this is being carried out through the media and among individual politicians, etc. So we're missing more information and data to say we trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9641	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9642	I thank the chairman, in article 34, you foresee the possibility of further borrowing in case of emergency situations. This is inadmissible, and we suggest that this member be deleted, precisely because of the level of public debt that you have made for the previous four years or five, of your rule. You did nothing else, in fact you did not actually do anything, but you did in debt, you took credits, and you took parallel funds for the citizens of Serbia. So, in five years, or four years of your government, for 10 billion euros, you've owed Serbian citizens, that's the finance ministry's data. In doing so, you raised GDP for only 100 million euros. So, all governments, from 2001 to 2012, averaged two and a half billion euros to raise the level of GDP, and only 100 million to public debt. You have done something impossible and raised public debt by 74% and are now predicting in this article the possibility of further borrowing, which is inadmissible, even if it was an emergency situation. The budget had so many positions where it could have been predicted, you even raised the current budget reserve. Therefore, we believe that this member should be deleted and not allowed further duty, because we have talked about the fact that you have not provided for funds, nor in the Ministry of Interior for the prevention of possible consequences due to emergency situations. In parallel with that, we have a situation that people who are employed in the emergency sector, work with sticks and ropes, strike us the military, here are the strikes and the police, announced a strike, in health care, in education a catastrophic situation, we took away the pensioners, we took everyone away and we continue to predict borrowings. So it is inadmissible to raise public debt, and that is why we suggest that this member be deleted, because enough citizens of Serbia owe, you owe them enough with more than 24 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9643	Thank you. First of all, according to the amendment, Minister Dusan Vujovic's representative has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9644	I understand your concern, but this is not an assignment, this is the right to be in charge of a case I would never want to happen. So this is in case of natural disasters and this is practically, and this is called insurance, not debt. We'll replace this as soon as the instruments show up. One of them offers the World Bank, where funds that can be activated in the event of natural disasters are employed at a minimum price. So, in case you don't give God an earthquake, big floods and so on. Remember how it was in 2014, many people and in all countries where it happened are expected to follow, taught by this experience, to define some programs that explain this. What someone says, this will be clear to everyone, when a situation like this happens then surely the ministry in the field with parliament will run this, come by the Public Debt Act and verify it later in parliament. The point is that this is insurance from catastrophic consequences to prevent and warn. The World Bank has instruments, they have another instrument called disaster insurance, and it has a similarity just because it goes up to 150 million, they estimate that it would be adequate for us at some minimum interrelational rate to keep those funds engaged and available for accidents, or natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9645	Thank you. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Branak Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 35. The amendments in the same text were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasi and Dubravko Bojic and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenada Konstantinovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9646	The government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed provision regulates that if income cuts are made on the basis of contributions to compulsory social security, administrative committees can adjust their expenditures to a reduced form of income, except for social security expenditure and thus ensure regular payments of certain social security rights. Well, I guess in all our regulations that regulate mandatory insurance there are provisions that define the situation when income shortages occur. There is something that is also a legal provision based on one constitutional norm where the state is guaranteed to all organisations of mandatory social security. Well, in the Budget Law, you've defined those transfers to a certain amount. Well, you're certainly within the framework and reserves to be able to possibly use those funds. Well, at the very least, if it's urgent and possible to get someone out of debt on the subject. But, no, here's the message next. It's not about the other laws, it's about the Budgetary System Act. Everything we do, we'll do under that law. Of course, we are followed by the next period, which is the intensive adoption of translated Croatian laws that need to prove that we are on a good path to the EU. That's the speed. Nothing's changed. Whoever has 126 can install whatever they want in any regulation, and what would you say, predecessor Djorda Milicevic, Radovan Bozovic, when I have 70 votes and I will declare the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9647	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9648	Thank you. I suggest erasing this article in 35 because it is actually devising the budget, because it says, in fact, that if fewer revenues are made from compulsory social security organisations in the current year, their boards will cut social benefits. This means that we are about to plan the budget and can now be achieved in the planned amount less or more. What is a serious problem is the way and criteria of granting social assistance and whether it recognizes all those groups of socially endangered people in the Republic of Serbia and you today have countless cases and you can see it in the media where different foundations, the media organizes to help families who have no problem with housing, or who are in any other way at risk, with five, six, seven or eight more children or any other kind of social threat. It's not systemically solved in the budget. This is not systemically resolved by the laws, and that is why these rights are difficult to achieve today. On the other hand, you have a situation where certain social work centres abuse this right. Well, you have a situation that in the town of Krusevec, which has 130 thousand inhabitants, something less actually, and Triestenik is 43,000 inhabitants. In Triestenik you have only 700 users of social assistance and in Kruševec you have 7. 500. So ten times more because it's being abused in pre-election campaigns and what through various donations, through the social services centre, people are forced to support a particular political option. It's a reality from the field. Therefore, it must not even be allowed to randomly allocate funds and to assume that it can come to the point that certain socially endangered categories cannot exercise their rights, because there will be more and more because you leave them without a job because they are receiving...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9649	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9650	It is normal that this amendment should not be accepted because the truth is absolutely the opposite of all this which the distinguished colleague has stated here. The Ministry and this Government are sufficiently concerned about the most sensitive categories of the population and indeed it has really become degutant to listen to more of these comments that are completely inappropriate, and what is most important and completely unfounded in the facts and in what this budget and also the practice of the work of the Republic Government show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9651	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9652	Just a few facts. On several occasions, counterpart Vulin said that funds of funds are filled with dynamics, which are colourful of plans, that the funds we transfer are reduced as a result of better performance, and the rights are defined by what we define by the annual plan and the PIO Fund and all other funds. And it says here that if the situation happens and we expect in case of something we can't predict, that these funds don't come true and that what they lack exceeds what's planned in the budget. We say – you have to tighten the costs, but in the last part of the sentence – except for expenditure on social security. We rule out, it's protected, but we say -- you can't keep spending money on other things, if you've started some investments or any other expenses, you have to, if you get into an emergency situation, you have to cut it off. It's the normal behavior of every fund. That's all we're making out here, but it's not social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9653	Thank you. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9654	The essence of this amendment is to try once again to rule out the government, i.e. to include employees specifically through this amendment in local self-government, which we have tried through several amendments to change policy towards employees in state bodies both at the level of the Republic and in local self-government and autonomous province, that after two years of being the highest number of employees, it means that those who have a higher salary of 25,000 dinars reduced by 10%, we include them, our amendment, specifically this amendment, to pay them back to that amount two years ago. We listened here, although that is not true, and from the Prime Minister that now they are more or less all employees through the increase last year and the increase that is scheduled for January next year and pay the same, which is a lie. No one's paid the same. So, the nearest maybe that pay came from an employee in education. They'll get 99% of the salary they got before the cut. But if we look at the real cost of rising prices and what's been going on in two years, then everyone's at a loss. We didn't get an answer as to why government employees are so irrelevant and how we're going to fight for the more efficient work of state authorities, for less corruption and other things. In the end, a few words per article, the amendment. The government of our amendment, unfortunately, was supposed to refuse, because what I was saying was about Article 36, and we were wrong here and we put in Article 35. I was saying all this because I can't speak to Article 36, but that's what the government had to say. If we were quick to react, we were wrong, I can admit it, then the government had to say – you were wrong, not to compromise with us in an explanation for the rejection of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9655	Time. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I have another minute and a half.) You wanted to talk after the amendment? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: According to the previous one. I didn't realize you wanted to follow the amendment. I'd give you my word anyway. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9656	Mr. Minister, this amendment refers to the allocation of funds to local self-government units for payouts and also, and you said it would be differently regulated in the future, this payment is contained in other accompanying laws. That's why we asked for article 36 to be deleted. But what I want to point out is that by today, no payment class law has been passed, or a paid class established from, say, one to three for the level of local self-government and for the state administration. I just have to tell you for the period when the SRS was in power in the municipality of Zemun, we made that decision in 1997, and now, to bring it closer to you, as if someone had the lowest salary of 50,000, 100,000 and 150,000. It's the only way to establish the level of profit, so that people can be decent enough to live off their work. But we have another problem, the enormous debt of many units of local self-government, the inability for many public enterprises to function, so, as in Kragujevac, the company for the construction of the town of Kragujevac, unfortunately, after so many years of existence to be shut down, because it can no longer bear the burden of debt inherited and accumulated, but not only there, but also in many other cities where such, in the right sense, with the best experts that one city and unit of local self-government have, people will be out of work, and they should be the bearers of development and do everything in order for this city to have new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9657	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9658	So, within Article 6, you give the possibility that local self-governments can plan to increase employees' salaries in social protection institutions, pre-school institutions and cultural institutions. Since this is not mandatory, but depends on whether a municipality has the means to raise its profits or not, I suggest that these amounts increase for employees of social security institutions to 10% and preschool institutions by 10%. So, those municipalities and those cities that are domestically acting, which have the conditions to raise profits for their employees in local self-government, I think they should be given the opportunity to do so and achieve at least the satisfaction of these officials who are doing these very important jobs, not to mention how important work is both in pre-school institutions and social protection institutions. Of course, that should be followed by an increase in earnings in other sectors, but it's not about this member. That is why we believe that this amendment should be accepted, because a very large number of municipalities and cities exist that will not be able to accompany this increase and that is one serious problem in the system of this proposed member of the law. What has been a trend in all the previous years of your reign in the last four years is finally now being given the opportunity to move from the dead spot. I don't want to talk about it right now that it is aimed at a pre-election campaign for elections announced for April 9th or presidential and parliamentary, but I will remind you that when some others gave the opportunity to increase, then you, representatives of today's government, said it was a pre-election increase in pensions, wages, etc. So, our workers, if they didn't have credit cards and credit cards, couldn't put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9659	Thank you. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Natasa Vukovic and Vesna Marjanovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9660	So one of the series of amendments that I'm trying to unburden the bearers of some function of responsibility for something they shouldn't be responsible for. Namely, here it is sought, again it is a matter of depriving funds through the transfer, giving the minister the opportunity to abolish transfers for those municipalities that either did not plan or do not pay employees' salaries for financial affairs, we can... So again, the idea is that the minister, with his decision, without criteria, would make a decision to deprive some of the funds of municipalities and cities of these local self-governments. My question - why is it the minister's job? He says, that's efficiency, that's going to put it in order, we have DRI, we have a tax inspection, I guess we have more, we have the financial police, we have the MUP, we have unions in local self-government that can make a fuss about it. Why would a minister do that? It's the same section that made them transfer amounts for local self-government. I asked the minister a moment ago, I asked him again - by what criteria and by what system was it made? Finally, since this is my last amendment, I think that after this debate, and I think that the minister agreed most of the time that there are a lot of mistakes in this budget, that he could have been made better, that there was time to make better, that there was time to get into parliamentary procedure early and that we had more quality amendments than we had now. December 15th is a deadline for adoption, as far as I know, it's still far from that today. So it's been seven, eight days more to finish this business as appropriate to the serious parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9661	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9662	Article 37 speaks of direct beneficiaries of the budget being obliged to submit a monthly report to the finance ministry on the implementation of projects and programmes financed from foreign borrowing. What we have asked is to add Article 3 to this article, that the Government shall report at least once a year to the National Assembly on the implementation of the accounts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. I completely cannot understand the reasons for not accepting that it is not accepted because the finance ministry will include transactions defined by this article in regular monthly reports. It's okay that you're going to cover those reports, too, but we want the Assembly to get those reports. We don't get them. No, you claim to have it in parliament. I couldn't find them. If there were any in the e-parliament, you could have written it in the e-parliament, you didn't follow it in class. It's not an obvious case. We have a problem with controlling budget spending, with a constant delay in sending the final bill each year, with the fact that the final account of the Republic of Serbia has never been discussed in parliament and has not been adopted by parliament. The Minister told us during this debate – here, we have prepared the final account for the year 2015 will be by the end of the year. The problem is that the Budgetary System Act states that the deadline is June 15th. So, the law. It's not a good law. Change it. The next debate is the Law's debate on the budget system. The government could have intervened there. He says, the deadline for the delivery of the final bill, I don't know either, December 31st, so we don't break the law, that even if we set the order, but obviously there's no intention of introducing order, of obeying all the laws, of honest access to transparency in work and of helping the Assembly achieve its control role under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9663	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9664	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, for the sake of truth, should be told that the Committee on Budget and Finance and Public Consumption in the previous meeting has formed a subcommittee dealing with the reports of the DRI by institutions, but what has been insisted will continue to be done in this conference, that is that every final account, meaning a report relating to the implementation of the budget, will first be carried out on the review by the DRI, and then in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and with the DRI on such reports, will be discussed by the Committee. It is our duty that we all play a supervisory role together, one that Parliament has. Simply, when the standards spoken of by Mr Vujovic together with the DRI and uniquely came to the committee in the National Assembly, then all MPs will eventually be able to attend such sessions, or public hearings. I think it'll be in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9665	Thank you. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9666	Dear Chairman, I must present myself before you and before all my fellow Members of Parliament, as well as the complete public of Serbia to admit that this is my favorite amendment. The reason is that we here propose that, after each three-month budget spending, the Ministry of Finance organises an open television debate on the first RTS programme on the subject – budget spending for the previous period, with the obligation to invite all representatives of parliamentary groups from the current National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the television debate. This is an amendment that is a symbol of democracy in Serbia. I'm sure the ruling majority's representatives will support it for reasons they have nothing to hide. After every three months of spending people's money, the finance minister led by his team, my distinguished countrymen, Mrs. Cojobasic and Mr. Mijlovic, will come to RTS, we will all come from all the parliamentary groups in this assembly and debate together as people's money is spent. If the Ministry of Finance and the government have nothing to hide, they have no reason not to support this amendment. Of course, the government responded that the Ministry of Finance is not involved in the organisation of emissions to RTS, but the Ministry of Finance is engaged in paying out of the budget of RTS activities. So, RTS, when we're already coming from the budget, could at least four times a year organise a debate on how to spend people's money from the budget. I suppose that would be an essential thing if citizens finally got at the Public Media Service the possibility of facing authorities and opposition on this key issue that is of interest to every citizen of Serbia – how does the government spend our money? So, Mr. Vujovic, if I were you, I would stand up and say, "All honour to the opposition, the right amendment, with the greatest pleasure of all, I will come to tell the people that I spend every penny in the budget."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9667	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. The word has been given by MP Aleksandra Tomic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9668	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, should not make a theatre performance out of the implementation of the budget and the report. So, the Serbian Parliament has its so-called so-called the control or supervisory role. All this is happening on the board or through public listening at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where the RTS journalists are present, but not just those TVs and that radio, but all the media, so that they don't get into a situation like we actually favour state media. And finally, at such sessions, questions should be asked extremely open to everyone, including how funds are spent by citizens of Serbia to finance RTS, and it is quite acceptable, and normal and acceptable, to ask all budget users, but that is why it is the place where this very home is talked about. No, it's simple to switch the role of the National Assembly to some TV shows. What you got in response to this amendment is completely, in fact, why you don't have to accept a solution like this. But we agree that something like that should be a practice here in the congregation in the future. Thank you. ( Bosko Obradović, from the city: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9669	You have no basis for replication, my colleague agreed to what you said, as far as I understand. She wasn't in a negative context talking about your exposure. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: So we will vote in favour of the amendment. ) According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9670	Thank you. This is a very interesting amendment, I have to admit, according to that principle of vain fathers and goats of the cross. You know, it's that system where someone wants to degrade an institution like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where only ministers, otherwise, come to match the people they chose. You want someone to organize a circus on TV to see how money is spent. By that logic, then, only the representatives of the ministry should come and present to the citizens on TV how money is spent, rather than having television debates and making a mess of it. So, this is so stupid, I have no words, and it's a great honor for the government to say no to this. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I think there are conditions for replication. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9671	No, believe me. He didn't mention you. (Bosko Obradovic, from town: Impossible. Imagine me telling you to have a stupid session. ) Mr Djukanovic expressed his position on the content of the amendments, but spoke first of all about the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9672	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I must say that, according to all the studies, and especially from the research of CRTE, therefore, an organisation that deals with Parliament's analysis and Parliament's openness, but also with some other international organisations and institutions, our Parliament belongs to the most open parliaments in the region of Southeast Europe, and that the work of this Parliament is very open, especially in terms of the control of the work of the Executive Authority and the work of the Finance Committee, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Let me just point out that a year and a half ago with the West Minstef Foundation, we entered a project to form a budget office, which also deals with the control of public finances and implementation and implementation of the budget. Everything we do in parliament is open, every citizen can be interested, come in, talk, talk to board members, people who work on the board as administration, people who are employed in the budget office and inform themselves about every aspect of budget spending. As someone who is president and subcommittee on control and review of the DRI report, I also call on colleagues who are not members of the board and who are interested in working and co-operation with the DRI, in order to better and better control the work of state institutions and budget users, to join us to work together on one of the most important jobs in our country, which is to reach one level that the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are spent in a meaningful, and of course legally regulated way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9673	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. According to the amendment, MP Marko Djurisic has the word. Mr. Djurishic, you have a minute and 16 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9674	Thank you. I think it is important that we discuss this amendment and how Serbian citizens get acquainted with spending their money, but also with different views on whether it is good or not, whether it can be better and more similar. I think this debate, those who have had the patience to follow this discussion over the past four, five days, when it was not too fierce and when we were dealing with the budget, could show citizens that there are different policies and different visions in which the money of Serbian citizens should be spent. I think this proposal would only contribute to that. These stories of something being formed, I don't know, I don't know, the board, the commission, that it's going to be, there's nothing. That's not gonna happen. (Alexandra Tomic, from the place: It is formed. It's been forming for five years, and it's never formed. Then the elections will come, Parliament will disband, and we will wait six months for a new parliament to be formed, and then in a year we will again when the last moment comes we will have a debate on the 2018 budget, and unfortunately, I am almost sure that we will lead in the same way as this year, because that is how we have been leading the last five years. So there's no discussion about programs, there's no discussion about what the results of spending money are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9675	Thank you. According to the amendment, there is a National MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9676	The Honorable chairman, because of the truth, should say that a subcommittee has been formed and the president is Mr Marinkovic, who reported and explained in fact what the subcommittee is doing, when it comes to DRI, reports from all institutions. So, members of all parties are members of that subcommittee and they simply prepare material for committee sessions, to discuss the report together with the auditor. Among these reports, we will have a report from the finance ministry, and practically, a report on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, when these sessions come on the agenda, of course everyone will be informed, all parties, all parliamentary clubs and practically everything will be as public as it has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9677	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9678	The amendment was meant to emulate the draft budget law with the Constitution, which says the laws enter into force on the eighth day following the publication in the Official Messenger. Once again, a law that says the next day after publication, and if I cannot understand the reason, as I cannot understand the reasons and from the government's explanation for not accepting this amendment. In fact, here's this last member of the law, as far as we're assuming tomorrow, we're going to adopt this law in the Assembly, it's going to be December 10th, so even before the Budgetary System Act says December 15th is the last deadline for adoption of the law. So, as the financial year begins on 1 January 2017, I don't see what it has to do with the extent of this law. So we insist that every law respects the Constitution and that this law, since there are no such reasons for urgency, meant there were reasons for urgency in the process of adoption, but in the process of entry into force, I really don't see the reasons for urgency, because we're going to adopt this law within the deadline, and it will have plenty of time for all budgetary users to prepare and start the budget year in accordance with the law and budget calendar. The problem is that the government obviously writes these transitional and final provisions by inert4 and says on every law – it comes into force immediately, and that is the problem. This reckless and irresponsible attitude towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia and users, in this case, budgets, which should have enough time to prepare. And they will. Yes, they were adopted in the previous session, and in some previous budgets within a short period that did not allow entry into force for eight days, but now we have that possibility and I really don't see why the government insists that this deadline be reduced again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9679	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. After we've completed the review of the amendments I conclude the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda five. You have received amendments to the bill by MPs Saša Radulović, Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta, Marko Đurišić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stanković, Dusan Pavlovic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Šulkić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Aleksić, Dr Sanda Rasković Ivić, Goran Ješić, Vesna Marjanović, Zoran Krasić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic, as well as the amendment of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9680	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment to the Budgetary System Act, which requires full transparency to be introduced. It means that for all direct and indirect users of the budget for all companies owned by a direct or indirect state, the obligation is prescribed for each month to publish exactly how much money they spent, that for every dinar they spent on exactly which legal and physical person the money was given, for which service, to publish all contracts by which the state spends every dinar and not only for the republican public enterprises, for the republican ministries, for the republican institutions, but also for the province and for all state authorities in municipalities, cities throughout Serbia. We do not see any reason why this amendment would not be accepted if the government were truly honest with regard to full transparency and transparent management of public finances, spending taxpayers' money. Of course, the amendment provides that if certain data are secret, and they can only be secret if they are prescribed by the Constitution or by some law, then they are not published, so that there is no objection from the Government that it would be to publish some secret information, because the amendment foresees it, or whatever is covered by the law and the Constitution, where the data are secrets, or not published, would not be published. This is a crucial step to make for the fight against corruption. If the government does not adopt this, or most do not adopt the Movement "Enough Has Been" will win the elections and this will be one of the first things we will introduce. For every penny in the state, you have to know how to spend it, you have to publish the contract by which that money is spent, and we need to know exactly how much money goes to which user of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9681	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic has the word. Mr. Risticevic, the time remains for your representative club for 34 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is to be refused for illiteracy, elemental illiteracy. There is no Law on the Budget System, there is no atom of the province, as a colleague wrote, there is no province, there is a province. I think in the absence of time my colleague will explain this illiteracy, my colleague Orlic best. This is to be denied due to the fundamental illiteracy of my colleague Rodney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9683	Right on the replica, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9684	I thank the MP who gave me the replica with a few insults, so let me underline these things that I said. So one problem with all of this was a very short time, so the services that put this together made a few mistakes. Nevertheless, the key thing is to seek full transparency. So for every penny to know how it's spent, I don't see any possible explanation to say that the state shouldn't behave like this, that it doesn't need to be clearly and transparently publishing to its citizens how it spends that money. For all the things that are classified data, which could cause harm to the state or someone, there must be legal solutions that declare such data secret. So this is a very important thing. The state should make a commitment. It would also be good to introduce penalties for all those who do not respect this law, that all those who operate the state authorities and do not publish every month for the previous month exactly how much money has been spent and not publish all the contracts themselves when they are signed. The fact that DRI's checking the budget, that they're giving some of their reports doesn't replace what we're looking for. Full transparency is required. It is required to publish an accurate list of assets, especially from the Property Directorate, so that we know exactly what property the Republic of Serbia has, so that we can then follow on the basis of how this property is used, to whom it is leased, and then not have, say, attempts to pass through the Housing Act the possibility for party staff to buy apartments from the state of buds for 20 years in non-interest dinars. He should come by on Monday. We'll see if we can pull this disgraceful member back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9685	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9686	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if my colleague had been running less around in the O.R., if he had waved less business and menus and banners, he would certainly have understood to use the right to replicate and remove his elemental illiteracy. He could at least say, I'm sorry, I ran 15 companies, I got a million and a half euros a month at the same time, I got 49 million, I got nothing. Imagine if the state were run by the one who with 49 million didn't do anything. If he didn't do anything for himself, what would he do for me, what would he do for the citizens? Who hasn't done anything for himself can't do anything for others. I expected him to remove this elemental illiteracy and say – give the people correct it, because I never heard of the Bill on the Budget System. I'm not exactly an economic gromat. Maybe the one in America, so these American tax fugitives know that, there's some budget system. Maybe there's an autonomial area out there. I have never heard of such an atom of the province, nor have I heard of the Law on the Budgetary System. I ask all fellow Members of Parliament to take a good look at this amendment and to continue to control what this former bankruptcy manager is doing, the man who would have pushed Serbia's state into bankruptcy, all the workers left out of work as he left those in the sugar shop, in the new highway, "Delta Legal". He didn't calm his trustees, he only calmed himself, his closest friends, and his best man and best man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9687	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9688	I thank the MP once again for giving me two more minutes to talk about these essentials in the budget. Of course, I'm proud to have protected the interests of all those creditors in the bankruptcys that were written. I defended their property from the thieves who, through party ties, wanted to rob that property and who used the corrupt state agencies to get to them. However, as far as bankruptcy itself is concerned, I will be happy to conduct the SNS bankruptcy in the next election. So trustees, citizens who gave the vote and got what they got could get at least part of the satisfaction of their claim. As for this law and what we are proposing, we propose full transparency and every attempt to insult, turning away from the subject practically says that the ruling majority does not want to talk about it, and why does it not want full transparency? Why does he sign secret contracts? Why don't you know where all the money is spent, so we have to say from employees that we get information that the EMS is building on a resort bath? Of course the whole story is... Thank you, colleague. It's called "the need", that we don't have that information, especially when contracts are signed, when a tender is called. What is this explanation that money is spent on such things and on the other hand is taken from pensioners? So in Serbia, the biggest problem is the party's parasitic system and the solution to this problem, that is, preventing the partocracy from robbing citizens, living as a parasite on everyone's back is what's actually going to save Serbia. One of the key drugs for this is total transparency. For every penny to know how it was spent, who spent it, and by what contract it was spent, and then we will actually defend ourselves against the corruption that ate all of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9689	The right to replication, to mention the party, first has a National MP, Aleksandra Tomic, the SNS's authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9690	I, on the basis of an authorised representative, will use the replica by my colleague Orlic. Just to point out, when we talk in general about transparency and the issue of bankruptcy of the Serbian Progressive Party, so experts on bankruptcy should know that the legal persons are the political party and that they are authorised persons, by law, presidents of these parties. The account of the Serbian Progressive Party contains all the money financed from the Republika Srpska budget and has not made so much cost to go bankrupt. That will never happen, as long as Mr. Alexander Vukic is the party's president. We know about the country where the money is, and for the companies run by the one who's talking about bankruptcy now and how he successfully represented it – don't defend us anymore, please. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9691	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9692	As you know and as has already been said several times in this debate on the 2017 budget, and now, here, and in the debate on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, we must adhere to the format of the proposed amendments and what the law requires. So here I fully support the requirement for transparency to be one of the principles to be governed by the Budgetary System Act, that the reporting be appropriate to the demands of both Parliament and the Government to monitor the implementation and implementation of the budget and that the reporting be consistent with all the laws. Unfortunately, this proposal does not satisfy any of the technical and legal requirements for the amendment. First, transparency is defined as one of the terms and as point 61a, but he, apart from me, seems incomplete and incorrect definitions of terms, defines users in a rather literary way, not using the terminology that is common in the law of defining the users of the budget. Secondly, he defines in the same place, except for the terms, trying to define the terms, defining what these are obligations, which is the dynamics of reporting, what that reporting involves, means, it exceeds, at one point defines everything, from the beginning of the end. It is, even if I agree 100% with everything you want to suggest, it is impossible to give under term definition and therefore cannot be accepted. Secondly, existing laws have already defined how budget implementation reports are being made. The fact that you've had any objections to whether or not we're keeping what we're supposed to do under these obligations, that's another question. But we can't in law write something that contradicts other obligations. Third, what you are proposing requires some information that is not necessarily in line with other laws on the availability of information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9693	Thank you. Mr. Radulovich, you're in the system. You have the opportunity to report by amendment. The time remaining for your MP's group is a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9694	Thank you. I am pleased that the minister agrees that more transparency is needed, and I fully allow a much better and more precise definition to be possible, so I would ask the Minister and the Government to make that definition and yes. We will support such a single proposal, if the government delivers it, in which it will define precisely, as the Government believes, that it is in accordance with all the regulations. But don't avoid this topic, because I think it's extremely important. It means everything has to be published. I don't know the secret spending of public funds. It has to be public. Practically, all data would have to be public, this already tells us the Law on the availability of information of public importance and should make it so that it is proactive. I'm sure this kind of transparency would help the finance minister, both you and the future finance minister, take better care of how budget money is spent and not allow for more partial and political parties that have practically eaten the entire society, to spend money... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9695	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9696	Position 2 deals with taxes, and the government proposes some changes to the way in which taxis are determined. The words, according to us fully justified, are replaced by the words "units of local self-government". However, we have proposed to extend this, so that taxes can also be introduced by the state authorities and authorities of the AP or the local self-government unit body in accordance with the law. I cannot understand the reason for not accepting this amendment, because, first of all, it calls for the rejection of another amendment and says that the idea to provide the government's proposal for greater predictability of costs, citizens and businesses. We think that it is precisely the intention to introduce the Law on the Budgetary System the possibility that both the state authorities and the authorities of the Autonomous Province are those who introduce taxes, in accordance with the law, as possible, to find here and that our amendment is also going towards ensuring greater predictability of the costs of citizens and businesses. Otherwise, this predictability has deteriorated in these four, almost five years, related to these hidden costs, as far as citizens are concerned. So this government has announced in one of its promises a reduction of all taxis, cutting, etc., the ultimate result is that these taxis, with 320 and something, are now 380. It's obvious that this is now re-announced that the state will be accounted for, but it's obvious that because of the new elections this promise will be forgotten and next year we'll have the same number of taxis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9697	Mr. Djurishich, time. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9698	In Article 17. The law on the budgetary system has been regulated that taxes can only be imposed on the basis of a law that determines the amount of tax, but also the possibility of giving this right under the law to a specific entity. And it was really too wide a formulation. You tried these amendments to the law to sort it out a little bit, so instead you said it was the authorities of the local authorities. We think that instead it should be said that it is the users of public funds. Of course, your argument says that you cannot accept the amendment because these solutions, which you and we both say are not good, have led to the fact that taxes were prescribed by various users without being based on the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. It's, of course, bad, but our amendment can't help but keep it that way. Now, as wide as this is for a "determined entity", the "local government body" is now too tight. There are simple users of public funds, there is a need to issue certain assurances under the General Administrative Procedure Act, etc., for certain legal entities which are not local authorities, but are not also provided for by the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We simply think that you should accept this amendment of ours because there would be less confusion tomorrow in determining the height of taxis and the authorities that can prescribe these fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9699	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's Parliament, Maja Vidinovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, and in principle, in a few sentences, I referred to this. By believing that these five days we are committed to this and that you are tired, I ask you only to listen with a little attention to what I consider extremely important. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to delete, and you are extending the period within which young people are banned, young scientists, young doctors, young teachers, young teachers. I find that both unjust and unjust. That's not fair. The message this budget gives young people is that there is no hope for them and there is no chance for them. Those young hardworking people who have studied and worked hard with the hope that the state recognizes that there is room for them, who have not decided to leave this country and to flee because the state tells them there is no hope for them, there is hope only for the contracts of work and only for party employment. I ask you to consider this amendment, we will absolutely not give up on this. What I find completely amazing is the explanation that you gave me on my amendment to lift the employment ban and that it is inadmissible to constantly extend that deadline. You said, I quote - that it is not accepted for the reason that the measure of the temporary employment ban has yielded exceptional results in reducing the volume of salary expenditure and contributed to the fiscal deficit. First of all, no temporary measure of banning employment for young people is because you extend from year to year, and secondly, that has produced exceptional results in reducing the volume of expenditures I find inadmissible the government's explanation and the clearest message. Please remember that fiscal consolidation must not become some kind of ideology that is stronger than life. If this law is adopted in this scope, I will propose amendments to the law at the first next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9701	Minister Dusan Vujovic is represented by the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9702	I think we need to interpret everything in the context in which it was brought and with the intention that it was brought. You know very well that, before this government proposes this budget in its second term, the decision was made in December 2013 on the ban on employment. Then, in order to mitigate these consequences of what you're talking about, a decision has been made that the commission may, on justifiable grounds, request an exemption from that rule, means that it can include the rights to hire both young doctors and young scientists and a whole series of other exceptions to the rules. Whether she works well or not, it's a matter of specific analysis and evaluation. The original plan proposed that the transition to a new system be prepared by 1 January 2017 and that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government begin, based on basic functional analyses, to propose by all sectors, i.e. all parts of the public sector, targeted values, maximum employment, planning and natural outflow and needs, and all of this you spoke of. Unfortunately, they haven't yet developed their capacity to do so and, therefore, we're extending this. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government should have the authority, by law, to plan and say – we will have so many doctors, agreed with RFZO, agreed with you, agreed with the budget, that we have this as a development plan, to hire where we should and where we have people, and we do not hire where we should not, including all other political, social ones. Why didn't we develop it? We'll invite colleague Ana Brnabić to tell us exactly what's going on. We have done functional analyses in some ministries and some sectors. Be careful, it's objectively late. Because it's objectively late, they'll give an innovative state of maximum staff somewhere in March, and only at the end of next year will they have, I tell you what the situation is, I tell you honestly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9703	Thank you, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9704	So we only extend this because this way, through the commission, we regulate it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9705	I will give you the opportunity to respond, as I will also enable my colleague Vidinović to continue for another two minutes, as a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, for understanding the importance of this issue. I understand your justification and do not enter your intentions. To be honest, they're not even relevant. There are relevant consequences and it is relevant, as we have said, that the price of your efforts to reduce deficits and reduce fiscal consolidation, as we said a few days ago, is paid by citizens. No excuse for people who sign up today, for young doctors who are today enrolling German courses and going to work elsewhere, no excuse is that the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the State Administration has done something that they should have done. On the contrary. What you've just said is another minus I didn't even get to argue. I'm asking you one more time to think hard, to try. So in this budget, not only did you extend the employment ban, but we see no new programmes for young people, new measures to help young people work, or regulate this. On the other hand, what I have to say, the commission, some commission in Belgrade that analyzes whether in a small place, there is a doctor missing, the consequence that there is no doctor paying for it by citizens. Not only that doctor who's waiting for his job, he's taking a course and he's ready to leave this country, but the fact that young people don't get hired, the price of it is paid by citizens, because the extent of their rights that they have is reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9707	Replication rights, a representative of Prime Minister Dusan Vujovic's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9708	In order to know exactly what we're talking about, I need to read you a second position, you quote the first attitude – public funds users cannot start a working relationship with new people to fill out job openings by 31 December 2016, so now we're changing to 2017. And we say - exclusively from the position of the 34th member, working relationship with new persons can be based on the consent of the government's body, on a proposal from the competent ministry, or another competent authority, with the previously obtained opinion of the ministry. So this is a formulation that allows everything you've said to be done. No one has the divine power to know exactly where people are missing, where we have doctors who aren't employed. Therefore, there are plans, Minister Loncar was already talking about it. So that's what we're working on, the system we're trying to do, but it takes a lot more time, a lot more knowledge and information to do it the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9709	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9710	Dear Minister, I would also suggest that position 1 be deleted where we predict the extension of this employment ban in 2017, which was introduced at the end of 2013 and the fourth year in a row, we have the same problem. So, on the one hand, you have units of local self-government, if we talk about them, as part of the public sector, which according to the Max Number Act have far less than they are prescribed and cannot exercise the right of the commission to receive any workers. I'll give you my example. I was mayor for four years. We have fewer workers away than prescribed. In four years, we only got one single consent for employment. Not to mention Paracino and other places. On the other hand, you have those who behave in a non-domestic manner and get the consent of these government commissions, which is actually aimed only at hiring party and party SNS personnel, both in municipalities and in public enterprises, EPS, ESM, "Srbigas" etc. As to how much this commission has given consent, so no one can determine it, that's what God knows. Bojan Cvejic, a journalist "Today", received a court dispute against the government of the Republic of Serbia over the lack of data on how many people are employed in the public sector after a decision to ban employment. So no one knows. The government pays the fines because it does not comply with the provisions of the law adopted by it. Also, in this amendment, I propose to increase positions where pensioners are expected to increase from 1.5% to 5%, employees at the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence to 10%, employees in secondary and primary education 10% and social, health care institutions to 10%, as well as preschool institutions at 10%. That's what I'm suggesting because citizens live today thanks to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9711	Time, Mr. Alexic. Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9712	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment was submitted to the draft budget. What we heard during the debate on budget reasoning only strengthened me in my intention to stay on the amendment. So, as for attitude 2, where pensions are also projected from 1.5% to 5%, for all the structures employed at 10%, so for education and for scientific and research activities, culture, health care, pre-school institutions and all the ministries that represent so-called. The Ministry of Power. As regards attitude 1, where the ban on employment is extended until the end of 2017, i.e. restriction or under certain conditions, I suggest that this position be deleted because it is rarely respected, on the one hand. On the other hand, this ban, because it is not respected, prevents the qualitative improvement of the personnel structure, therefore, it is an excuse, as the colleague said, when to receive young doctors or other experts, but because when to receive party personnel, it is not respected. So there are examples of that. The Great Plan has increased the number of employees by dozens, we have two assistants, one baker's worker for the development of entrepreneurship, and for informing our former fellow SRS MP, pensioner, director of home health, is not from PUPS, a pensioner, and the justification is when to receive young doctors in the home of health that there is a restriction, i.e. a ban on employment, but when a pensioner needs to be director of home health for 200,000 dinars, then it is not the opposite of the law. So I suggest that this attitude be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9713	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9714	Thank you very much. To return to the essence of this article, as has already been known from a press release, we have found a difficult budget space for this limited pension increase of 1.5% and salary increases in the way described in the law. Budget space, i.e. The restriction here is the key word. Not a good will, not a good wish, not that we want to help all public sector employees, not that we want to help Serbia, but that we want to help Serbia. Obviously, your proposal, if I read it right here, is a proposal that suggests replacing existing percentages with some other percentages. If possible, my question to you – why do you put 7.5 on five instead of 18? Why are you putting five on ten instead of 17 or 16 or 25? So, in other words, if there's no budgetary and resource constraints, why are you holding back good wishes? I'm trying all the time to say that it's not a question of what we want, but the question is, what within what we have, resourcefully in the fiscal space all together, can we distribute and stay in those gauges? We also said publicly, I said that about the budget presentation, that is, the budget law for next year, and also about this proposal, that we have two parameters. It is one thing for public sector wages, GDP, to be reduced and minimally reduced from 8.5% to 8.4% and for GDP pensions to decrease to medium, wages to 8%, no more than 8%, and pensions to no more than 11%. These are the restrictions we've been given. The only way out is to grow the gross domestic product faster and thus increase the gum. Therefore, I understand your good wishes, but you try to understand that we have a real restriction that we have to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9715	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Schulkic, the basis of your report? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9716	I understand, Minister, what are the budgetary frameworks. But you said it yourself several times during the debate in these two, three days and that somewhere in the explanation, and we can hear it every day on television, that this budget is actually a redistribution. So he has his frames and I have no objection to that. You've provided so many frames, probably so much, but I have an objection to redistribution. So this is the result of redistribution, because now there are some agreements and estimates, so this should be an increase of 1.5%, 3%, 6%, etc., as you suggested. Why 10%? Because for several years now, this temporary suspension of so-called suspension has been going on, and we don't know how long that suspension can last. You speak for yourself in explaining or defending this budget, you say optimistic that these projections are good and that they will soon lead to us not being forced to continue. Then the question arises – why don't we tell people? This is how long it has to last until 2018, by 2020. Why can't you say that, if you can figure it out now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9717	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9718	Thank you. This is an interesting member of the law that exists and could be seen as some historical reading, because you see through it a change of various policies over the years, and then the government starts its bill by changing this article in a sentence, exclusively from the positions 27, 31, and then your policy for next year, which is not in line with the fiscal rules that this member is talking about, is being implemented. And if the government really wanted to put order in place then she couldn't pass a bill that contained extraordinaryly, but, say, ministers, you should have said that, let's say, if the external debt crossed these famous masterly 60% that the government was going to do something, not to cost 45 as much as it is in the law right now. So, I don't think this brings order into the system. But what is our essence, let me move on to the essence of our amendment. I repeat, I cannot understand why employees of state authorities, autonomous province authorities and local self-government have been excluded for the second year from budget exceptions. Why are we demeaning their work? We are constantly calling on ourselves – we need a more efficient state administration, and then we bring in the budget that there is no law to reward those who do good work, who move to higher status and the like. So that's bad. Now, I Minister, you probably in your daily work, your closest associates who are here with you today, are well rewarded for their work, the NIS Assembly, the Management Board of the Commercial Bank, and what about thousands of others. These thousand and a half sides, say, you didn't do the three of you. Tens of sure, hundreds of people worked on this. They have no compensation or recognition for their work and you forget them again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9719	Thank you. Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vesna Marjanović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9720	We have submitted the amendment because we consider it totally unnecessary to intervene on this article, which is 27j. Because everything that's been built up already exists in some way. But usually that's how it works when you take bad translations of some foreign documents. However, since it is public investment priorities, I think for the next six months, the government can do something that would be historicly epochal, without money, would produce a huge result. Here's what I suggest. Since the National Museum has major problems, move the National Museum to the building, this building of the Federal Assembly and that it has two titles. The interim National Museum and the permanent museum of the failed states of Yugoslavia. This is where the Kingdom of Yugoslavia collapsed, right here in this building. Well, the SFRY, it's gone. Well, the S.R.J., it's gone. Well, Serbia and Montenegro, they failed. And, just because Tadic was in that old building very close to being a pay phone to the MP, only two meters, he transferred here. If we go back there, here, to the National Museum, we don't need a reconstruction. It's a better place to work there. That's where happier laws are passed. There's no state that's failed. That's why you don't need a medium-term priority plan. You can do it right now, for the general people's pleasure. In 2000, there were 80 employees serving the National Assembly. Every MP had his own office, his own chair, and you see here, we can't even make out in these halls. How many do you have now, one 600 employees? It's all costing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9721	Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9722	Yes, this is an intervention on Article 31. Here, I have to really say, I don't allow the government to attack the government. You, in this conference, are attacking the previous government council. You think there's nothing wrong with that law passed by the previous government. And you're changing now, even if it's supposed to contain, say, a budget calendar, what the budget should contain. Well, that's all been ideal for us since 2009. This law was passed in 2009 and has been changed ten times, this is his 11th time as we change it. Please, and we're getting worse and worse after those changes of yours. What is proposed here, that by March 15th, each beneficiary of the funds is also submitted an annual report on the impact of the programme for the previous year. That's what the original says is efficiency, but since you're going to Europe, I would recommend you put another term here, it's a report on the proactive outcome of the program. That'd be much better, you'd understand that in Selicevic you know how nice. The user of public funds himself writes a report on himself and his opinion that he was successful in the previous year. Please, where else is it? Where else is that? What more do you want to complicate with these regulations? Go down to the local self-government units, go to Rakovica, see if you understand the final bill and the budget they're writing there. Well, no one can understand that. They write it with their feet, not with their hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9723	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9724	I'm glad that your tone is now heading in an illustrative direction and that what we had before is no longer available. That's very nice to meet you. Secondly, I'd just like to better understand your objections to Article 31. In this article we retain everything that was before, only in the second step of the budgetary process, what you said about Parliament, etc. I accept that as a pretty good mental structure and we can all think about it. But here we only add the following, in the second step of March 15th, we add only -- as well as the annual report on the impact of the programme for the previous year. Well, we spent three days here, four days, everyone's looking for a report. We're putting it here now and you're saying you don't get it. I don't understand. That's exactly what we're looking for. The second thing we ask for in addition is that by September 1st, we have a report on the impact of the program for the first six months of the current year. So that's what you're looking for. Third, we're looking for a report that contains the effect of the program for the first six months of the current year. We're all looking for what you're looking for for local government. So, at the level of local authorities, we're looking for the same relationship both to the limitations and to the programmes and to the objectives. The most important thing we're looking for here, we're asking that in April, when we determine the so-called priority areas of funding, we're constantly struggling here where little funds to distribute. We're asking that all the projects be delivered to us at the preparation level so that we can assess where to invest money, in the road, in the rails, in the electricity, in the power lines, in the pipelines, etc. It seems to me very logical and all the normal countries in the world are doing it. So what we're proposing here is one deepening of the existing, firstly, to stick to the calendar and secondly, deepening the key steps on that calendar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9725	Thank you. I'll give you two more minutes to respond, as I'll give Mr. Krasic the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9726	I'm glad you finally understood me. I commended you for not trusting the local government. I praise you. If you knew what was going on out there, you'd be sitting down even more, believe me. I don't trust the State Auditing Institution either, I don't trust the Fiscal Council, but don't bother with my opinion of them. Look, I'm just distracting you, if you expect a local self-government to write its own self-report about what she was doing, that, if you'll excuse the expression, can go on the tail. I'm glad you accepted that there's a big problem with non-intentional spending on local self-government. I'm good that you've raised it to the state level, it's not just a party level now, a party problem. I know it's a party problem. You see, these are accusing you of employment. I'm not accusing you, I'm encouraging you. The more you hire yours, the more you burden your finances, the sooner you fail. Why? Well, there's no capacity to pay off. Then yours will be taken out, your eyes will be taken out. That's what I want to do. I want to make my way to a great change as soon as possible. I want to fight you, take your eyes out. Now I say, you in the bar, the Treasury doesn't trust you, they think you're criminals, that you're stealing. I support you there, Mr. Vujovicu. I'm a master at fighting the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9727	Time. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9728	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the volume of the tone we address cannot overcome the arguments. What we have here today as a draft budget doesn't contribute to any constructive debate based on this amendment at all. With this amendment, the Proposer simply wanted to explain to the Minister the complete situation relating to both the public sector and the general law concerning the ban on employment for 2017, but for the need for the calendar, which we are talking about, to be defined by the Budgetary System Act in advance with dates, so that when we talk about the budget as we speak today, we would have a prepared plan and we would simply consider all these points more easily. That's why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9729	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9730	We agree with the idea of proposing that finally and clearly the law is defined in the budget calendar that programming and reporting of programming activities are explicitly found and we think that's good. What we have proposed to our amendment is that at this very moment, when the direct beneficiaries of the budget in accordance with this law deliver a report on the implementation of the annual programme, it is March 15th, or there, it seems to me, September 1st, half-yearly reports on the implementation of the programme, that these reports are also published on the website, so that all citizens can see how the funds were spent in the previous year, or half-year's report. The Ministry, or the Government, has rejected our proposal, with an explanation that the law now defines the publication of adopted budgets, final accounts and programmes on the websites of direct budget users, i.e. the institutions of the authorities that adopt the budgets. But the problem is, that's not the case, that the budget calendar is not respected. We see no reason why this provision does not stand, that the moment users deliver the report to the ministry on the implementation of the programme, on the implementation of the programme, that report is also on the website. I'll remind you, we haven't gotten the final bill yet, even though it's July 15th. Under this law we're talking about, it's July 15th and we haven't got it yet. Whether it will be in the coming years, I'm sure it will, and I don't see any problem with having that report, as it goes to the ministry, published by this law on the website of the institution that sends it to the ministry. He can't replace that by adopting, and only then publishing the final account.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9731	Time. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Bogdanovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9732	This is a similar amendment to the previous one. It should contribute to greater transparency and citizens' knowledge of how money is spent. Article 8 amends Article 37 of the law and talks about how the financial plans of direct beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia are being adopted and it is being brought here that, within the framework of these proposals of the financial plan, software information should stand and that is good. What we asked for is that these software information is also on the official website of the budget user. So, this report that goes to the ministry to be made public, that it can be met primarily by users, and finally by citizens, because it's about budget users. I mean here at the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund and other institutions, which are now due to cross over and work on this programme funding, that these programmes, as they go to the Ministry to prepare for the approval of these programmes and plans, be published on the website. We don't see any reason not to accept it. So, I repeat, the adoption, that is, the release of budgets and final accounts only when adopted by our Parliament, by local parliaments, and only then to publish it. We don't think that's fast enough and good enough. We don't see any problem with those reports going to the Ministry being made available to citizens. If there's nothing to hide in them, why won't the Ministry accept our amendment and why won't it support greater transparency in the work and spending of state money?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9733	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9734	There's one thing I need to tell you. We here systematically advocate better, more transparent, timely information about everything. I get the impression that here... I read a sentence to which you are giving the amendment, as a contribution to the proposal for a financial plan, direct beneficiaries of the budget provide a report on the impact of the programme for the first six months of the current year. This refers to investment projects that they are preparing and implementing, which we haven't even looked at yet. I don't mind. You convince them to put it on their page. I can't do it without the procedure properly to put it all on the page. It seems to me that this request to make everything transparent is a little too high. It must be an integral part of the process. This way you can make a total mess, every day you throw all your people out into the hallway -- here's all the information about everything I have at home, so look. I don't mind, but we have to have an orderly system before that. We're trying to sort out the system here, so that our projects don't fall out of the sky, that we know what number of projects we're competing for the resources we have, that we decide on that, that we know in time, from identification to project realization, that the Ministry of Finance knows in April which project will appear to compete for the budget. This year we include projects in the budget. So it's very important that we plan it very precisely and we can't go too far. We should have information, but don't commit to anything we won't be able to respect. Secondly, precise information, meaning colleagues from the Treasury confirm, every month we send complete information at the level of the three-digit classification at the Portal for Public Finance Control since December 2015. She says, if you need any technical assistance, the team will come here to take you through that portal and show you. So it's a monthly execution report, and this is all the information you're looking for that we have to test first, add to that Portal, and then we'll see when they're available to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9735	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9736	Thank you. So it wasn't our idea to put a burden on the Ministry now and bury you. We say that the user, that report that points to you, publishes on his website. Are we mature or aren't we company now? We can discuss it. Would it be more clear to the citizens how their money is spent if suddenly a lot of data were released? I can agree that there wouldn't be, at first, but you might teach them. Learn, citizens would have the opportunity to easily get information, not wait for what you are now predicting, release the budget, and then publish the final account to see how these programs were implemented and how much money was spent, more or less, whether by planned dynamics or not. Often here in discussions we've heard these days, there's a budget, there's a congregation subcommittee, there's this portal you're talking about. How many people are really using that? You know, it's like an argument when a direct TV is being downloaded here and then you say, you have these transmissions on the Internet. I'll tell you, two days ago when the transfers were cut off, the transfer of the Assembly was watched by 412 people. So you can see that, 412 people watched, out of seven million citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is it realistic and does this contribute to informing Serbian citizens about what is going on here in parliament and when we are discussing the most important law of the year, the budget and how will citizens spend money? So it's not a wish to burden you, meaning the institutions that are already doing that report send it to you, to publish it on their website. I don't see that there's anything controversial about it, that there's anything secret about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9737	On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mr Jasmina Nikolic and MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9738	It's a change of a member who refers to forced payment. Now I ask you a question – why don't we model this article and say it applies to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? So, if this member were to be applied to natural persons, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do you know when trustees would collect the claim? Never in the world. Now you tell me - why is the state protected in relation to the state as a debtor, the state as someone who needs to fulfil some of its obligations, on individuals? That's one reason. Second reason, I heard you're opening double accounts with public funds users. You're opening accounts where you're going to remove funds for regular work, something like this to leave for a forced payment, because they come at the collection of certain things, which from Strasbourg, which on some other sides, etc. Third, most important, the remark – why did you put EU funds in the same line with the funds for salaries of employees of public funds users? Why? The European Union is stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija. The European Union has given them a telephone number – 383. Then why are you protecting them? It'll be a while to talk. I'd reset all their claims to us. I'd reset it, reset it, because a bank multiplier makes a miracle, makes a so-called. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you add up everything in the world you owe...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9739	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9740	You interrupted me, and I could have kept going. With this member of the amendment, you are asking citizens to signify abuses in the use of EU funds, but not to punish those who commit abuses, but to have the government of the Republic of Serbia prosecuted the EU. So this is the reverse process. There used to be a process -- dear pensioners, I'd very much like to raise your pension, but we're not allowed from the EU, from the IMF, and now the situation is different -- you know, we're in favour of the EU, but we're having problems, and the money is being stolen in a coalition by those in Brussels and those in local self-government, and then you're insinuating them, and everything under the company of budget control, the spending of funds, to make it nice, clean. We get 35% of all the funds that come from Brussels lost in consulting services, charged – you know, I've got an uncle in Brussels, he'll help you, especially around the environment, you know. You'll see. That's why everyone in the government is grabbing to be in European integration, to have their finger a little next to that kamack over there and toss out their eyes. Poor Ruzic couldn't put together six months to be a minister, he was immediately changed by these women. That's how it works. I know you won't accept this, but it's important to me that the public accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9741	Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word of MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9742	We consistently, which is this amendment and shows we are in favour of greater transparency and strengthening the control role of parliament. We asked our amendment that this entire network work report, which should control irregularities in the spending of money coming to Serbia, by the European Commission, be submitted once a year to the relevant assembly committee, means to the Finance and Budget Committee. The government rejected this amendment by referring to Article 56. The Law on the National Assembly, which states that the government submits its report on the work to the National Assembly and then continues to speak of the fact that the competent assembly committees through the three - month ministry reports can control the work of each ministry. The fact is not all ministers work, they don't meet this obligation by law and by the Rules of Procedure. They don't come at least once every three months to file their work report. Secondly, this topic is particularly important, as far as it is particularly within the law, is particularly defined, and we believe that it cannot and should not be the National Assembly to consider how the funds are spent by the European Commission, and they are certainly the largest that come under various programmes in the state of Serbia and are measured hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros per year, to be part of the overall report on the work of a particular ministry, i.e. the government's work. That is why we believe that it is necessary, in particular, as this member specifically defines the organisation of the ministry's work, to deliver a special report to the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament, and I am sorry that the Government has consistently rejected our amendments that raise transparency and strengthen Parliament's control role.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9743	Mr. Vujovic, you wanted a word on this amendment. Excuse me. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9744	If we understand each other well with these numbers, your amendment referred to the amendment of Article 19, which actually refers to a member of Law 68b, right? In this article, what is new, only after operational technical co-operation with the European Anti-Fraud Office and other competent bodies and services of the European Commission is added as well as administrative checks on reported irregularities in the management of EU financial resources. This applies exclusively to EU funds, they only seek that there are bodies and that is a prerequisite to give us uncontrollable in Brussels. So it's completely the other way around. They say make bodies that suit us according to your expertise and according to your rules, and we will then give you the funds that you yourself, based on the programs that you define, spend and report to us. They give us more freedom. It's 32 heads extended to all these areas. The important thing is, to interpret it, we can say what we want, and they tell us you learn how to run it, so we'll give you the resources. It's just being added here, with the so-called. Olaf, extends to the administrative check of the reported irregularities. Nothing else. We are already writing a report here, and therefore, I have no objection to that report being extended to the Assembly's portal, but don't write it as special, just to copy the report, among other things in parliament is no problem. Thank you very much. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9745	No, I don't. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mirčić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Dejan Šulkić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, Dusan Pavlovic and Miroslav Aleksic submitted together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9746	Since the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, the current budget reserve has been set up to 2.5% of the total revenue and receipts from the sale of non-financial assets. It was certainly a problem, but it was accepted as a standard that must be respected, and it worked. I'm just amazed, after so successful in 2016, that you're raising this from 2.5% to 4%. Why am I doing this? And anyway, you have such a nice appraisal of the economic classification, so foggy with the amounts, you have this budget plan that allows you to see it now you don't see it now. You can do anything, I don't know where you need one hard standard to raise 2.5% to 4%. Is it possible that there is such a need for unencumberedness to be filled, allegedly, by some holes, because it is a liquid reserve, and at the same time you have the possibility of short-term borrowing to preserve liquidity, to fill the budget, an unbalanced inflow of funds, and you boast that it is a good inflow of funds. Never a better charge. It's simple, if you take what's causing this, those reasons don't exist. I would understand this if it were a big problem with the budget system. However, you boast that everything is going well. You don't need to raise the percentage of the current budget reserve, you don't need to. If you do this like this, then you narrow down our ability to control you. Besides, you've narrowed it down to us because you don't bring in final accounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9747	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9748	Here we have also suggested that this percentage of 2.5% to 4% return to the original frames as it was 15, 20 years ago. We don't see a single reason why this year's current budget reserve would be by a percentage and a half higher, or nominally by some 16.17 billion than it was in the budget last year, pre-, or all previous years. What is going to happen next special year that the government has a discretionary right to have 15, 16 billion dinars more and that these funds can plan, or to place according to one of their intentions, whoever they want? In your explanation, you said that the exceptional funds of the reserve could be used to fulfil the commitments of the local self-government budget due to the reduced revenue volume of the budget. On the basis of which assumptions we know in advance that the budgets of local self-government in a reduced volume will be filled, when we heard two months ago when the Law on the financing of local self-government changed that it would not endanger local self-government and that there was already a reserve and compensation fund that would replace these fewer revenues. We really don't understand why these funds are increasing, when the intensity of every budget in democratic societies is to be as transparent as possible, that citizens know where their funds are going. Why exactly 4%? Why isn't it 24%, for example? If we go to these resolutions and there's always going to be some special situation where the government needs to intervene. The intensity of every normal society is to keep that reserve as low as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9749	I thank you, MP. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9750	Our amendment goes towards the fact that instead of the government increasing the budget reserve from 2.5% to 4%, it should be further reduced, as it was in previous years. If we go towards greater budget transparency, spending money, we don't see why now the budget reserve, after a few years of shrinking, is the fact and we commend it, now it's increasing again. The only reason I understand this increase is because 2017 is an election year. Of course, you can't exactly show in your budget where you're going to spend these nearly two billion or I don't know how much money you spend on elections. Where all ministers and candidates will go to take pictures, open something, lay stone foundations and tell colorful lies. It is quite certain, since we have heard from the prime minister that we will have parliamentary elections, that the ministers from this reserve will need 64 million for the cost of the parliamentary campaign to be singled out. That's what all the political parties that participate in the election and cross the censorship will get. But the question is how will these elections end up being held, will you arrest all potential candidates before these elections. You're on your way to arrest this one...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9751	Ambassador, that has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9752	Well, it has something to do with what the budget reserve is going to be spent on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9753	It's nothing to do with that. Don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9754	Yes, because the government intends to spend much more money on Serbian citizens in the election campaign. They don't have much of what they've taken from citizens in the last few years, now they need even more from the budget to win the election. And since they're afraid of that choice, they're going to arrest them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9755	Thank you, MP. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9756	You see the proposed changes. So, first of all, go back to the first day when we discussed the basic characteristics and dimensions of this budget we realized that we added 43.5 billion project loans and added with them an entire vector of unused parts of these loans. The increase in the current budget reserve to two billion is relatively small compared to the increase in budget coverage and represents security so that we can react to all the elements in maintaining the liquidity needed. You know very well that local self-governments appear with requirements to cover current liquidity. You know very well that if we can't predict any element, no one can say with certainty now what the cost of the election will be and what the rights of individual parties will be and how much will be the costs, the administrative costs to get the elections out. So last year we covered from the current budget reserve. And this year we have some space to secure it. Don't rush the reserve and report on it. That's two completely different things. The liquidity reserve serves you that you can react, as this 100 million is foreseen as a reserve, and the reporting, as I tell you, should be as soon as possible after the execution and as precisely as possible, more transparently. That's two completely different things. If you mean by that, we've come all the way down to history that we've divided everything into little drawers and then for every thing instead of a little match we've taken the lighter, we've had to do it all across the hall, you know, to move it from one drawer to another. That's when you're not sure then you're still making up for the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9757	Alexandra Tomic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9758	For the sake of truth, Madam Chairman and Honorable Minister Vujovic, since I don't know if you've been following the RIK budget for the past year and this one has been. It was planned for 2017 100 million less than last year when we had parliamentary elections. Therefore, the exposure to making much bigger money for this year's elections simply does not stand. It's a political bribery through this amendment, and when we talk about whether there are arrests or not, everyone has to respond when they have to make a statement to the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9759	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9760	I'm thinking about whether I should compliment you right now or in the replica, so I said let's go right now. It's important that it hasn't been changed in this article. The government continued to remain committed to delivering the draft law on the final budget account to the National Assembly on July 15th. Just to find out that the final bill was not delivered on July 15th, the draft final budget bill for 2015. I expect that July 15, 2017 will be delivered for 2016. To commend you, you have changed the provision that the 1st of November government delivers to the National Assembly what is to be delivered, but this year you did not deliver. There. As for those proactive outcomes, I know that's what those in Brussels are looking for, the ones that give money, which, through the budget, it should go for something to follow, so that the papers are made the way everyone's been doing something. I know that very well. I've known them since 2004, but don't throw it into this law for nothing. When you put something like this in, you immediately increase your appetites in the bar, they say – here is another valve, here we are going to fit in. You seem encouraging to them because they treat this as a normative framework for political influence and cami money. Holy Trinity. Avoid it, and all this comes after the payment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we submitted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9761	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 22. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of this draft law. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9762	I thank the chairman. This is the result of the work of the previous three years of the Women's Parliamentary Network and all the committees that consist of local assemblies that held a conference here at the plenary conference, the last national conference on November 4th when 700 women from Serbia practically attended the conference. A meeting was held on December 1st, along with the OSCE, aimed at making birth-responsible budgeting an integral part of Serbia's budget. Thus, in practice, Article 22 was complemented by the amendment's financial report that budget implementation must include an impact on the improvement of gender equality. This means that all aspects related to gender-responsible budgeting will be an integral part of the budget implementation report. It will know exactly what the impact of women is, how many men are, and that is what the main objectives of gender-responsible policies are, which are also the basic standards of democracy and EU members, but from countries that want to go that way. I will also say that these goals also try countries in a region that are not EU members to introduce into their local budgets and republican budgets. On this occasion, we thank Minister Vujovic for having heard, first of all, both last year and this, that he is going through phases in steps one, two and three, in the depths practically to bring his gender equality down and become an integral part of his birth budgeting in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9763	Thank you very much. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9764	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I have suggested that the correction of this Article 27 be carried out, where one part of it is said that, if the budget user does not spend the funds in accordance with the law, i.e. non-intentional spending, it is possible to issue an order to suspend the transfer of the appropriations, if the budget inspection finds it appropriate. So, I suggest that instead of "can" being put on a "issuing a warrant", because if someone breaks the law and establishes a budget inspection, it is necessary that they carry certain conventions. In this way we will avoid certain free estimates of whether or not someone will be punished, we will avoid any discrimination and they will all be subject to the same conditions and equal criteria. So we have a situation to talk about now and then and about the current budget reserve, which among other things serves to transfer funds to certain cities and municipalities for liquid liquidity unless they have adequate budgeting, and I would rather say unless they behave domestically and rationally. That's how we discriminate against the good ones. Now we keep mentioning, I listen here to Mr. Milojic mentioned as mayor or president of Smederevska Palanka municipality, who left huge debts, and I can remind you that you have a dozen such cases and examples of mayors and presidents of SNS municipalities who are being given funds from the budget. Here, for example, many times mentioned both Kragujevac and Nis and Leskovac and Novi Sad and many others, with hundreds of millions from the republican budget. So we can't have different arches and we have to be equal to everyone if we respect the law. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9765	Failed attempt. The 28th amendment was jointly submitted by Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. He didn't make it. You laugh, you say, mention me like that. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I can only get the word? I'm so hurt. Everything's fine, and I'm also hurt and offended. Don't yell. Does Lapcevic want a word? He doesn't, obviously. Thank you very much. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9766	Thank you. I didn't mean anything by it, I just mentioned it in the context of the other presidents of the municipalities. So, as for Article 30, I propose to delete the category of fiscal analyst, because the first Budget Law should not actually treat the systematization of the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council is an independent state body responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and they have a certain systematisation that should not be affected by us. On the other hand, I don't know what a fiscal analyst is going to do the other way than so far employed in the Fiscal Council and people who are already doing certain jobs. Thus, it is neither a proponent nor an explanation of the necessity of this change of fiscal analyst in this article of the Budgetary System Act. I think if it were an idea to hire a new member of the Fiscal Council, it could be done in a different way. I believe that all the jobs the Fiscal Council needs to do can be done by people who are doing the Fiscal Council today, and it consists of three members who are in charge of practically performing professional and administrative affairs related to the functioning of the budget, to improve the culture of fiscal responsibility in the Republic of Serbia through an independent analysis of fiscal policy. So I am not sure that the Fiscal Council has been consulted for this budget in the previous period as an independent body, such as neither the Citizens' Protector nor the Information Trustee. It is simply in the manner of this government and I do not see that the work of the Fiscal Council will be more appreciated if we insert a category of fiscal analyst and therefore I suggest that this part of this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9767	The 31st Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9768	Article 31 is also related to Article 30, and it concerns systematicisation, so to speak, at the Fiscal Council, where fiscal analysts are actually wiped out and special advisers, because there is a major economist in the Fiscal Council. They're actually faces that need to help the government and show the way it's supposed to go. What's good is that the Fiscal Council has repeatedly warned about those budget weaknesses. First of all, I mean public enterprises. In fact, the Fiscal Council has warned several times and today warned that the most critical point of this budget for 2017 is the problem with public enterprises and that this could increase the deficit foreseen for 2017. In fact, it is necessary to reform public enterprises, it is necessary to address these problems that last for years, so that we can actually recover our real budget, not that fiscal consolidation only comes down to savings from citizens' pockets and on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I believe that whoever is working at the Fiscal Council, whether these are special advisers, major economists, these people do their job and should be respected in their analysis and their views on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9769	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9770	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment is actually about the previous two amendments, and I end up with that, because the last one also applies to that, and here is Mr. Nedimovic, asking me when I'm going to finish. Here, I'm done now. So, as for the Law on the Budgetary System and the Budget Law, the sum of the Sumarum, I can say that when to save, save ordinary citizens, when to spend, spend the government and spend the ministers, when to apply the law, it is applied selectively and validly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9771	So what, you don't need a fiscal analyst's business or something?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9772	No, I was also talking about analysts, so I...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9773	Not yet, I haven't read you on the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9774	I'm giving up that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9775	Thank you very much. Just so I can read it, it doesn't turn out that I skipped. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9776	I have an obligation now at the end to tell the opposition, and I have been waiting to see if anyone else will say anything, all the time deluding the public that there is no transparency about budget execution, and MPs know very well that on Parliament's website, on a portal to monitor public finances, so I read here what there is, access to every MP, and this is that the portal contains data on determined budget projections for the current year by direct budget user, showing the participation of each individual direct user in the overall budget, as well as a presentation of budgets by planned means, according to the functional classification and source of funding. In addition to this data, the portal also contains reports on real-time real-time budget implementation by direct users by appraisals, which will allow cross-analysis of direct-user budget implementation data to be carried out for the needs of MPs. The Public Finance Supervisory Portal is a software tool that has provided a link between the National Assembly and the current system in the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration in a way that will enable MPs to have direct access to information and ensure that funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are monitored in a simple and efficient manner and that public finances are monitored. The National Assembly is placed in a small group of national parliaments that similarly oversee the spending of public finances, the State for the sake of the Republic of Slovenia, the parliament of Brazil, the parliament of Scotland and others. So much for the fact that it doesn't exist, the people can check, there's this on Parliament's website and spending on three-digit appraisals you can watch in real time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9777	Thank you very much. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9778	Dear President, I think you've injured a 106th member who's talking about the speaker being able to only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We just had an amendment on the agenda of colleagues, Alexic, who is being deleted from Article 34. The budget system law, which speaks of the number of special advisers and fiscal analysts. So, not a single word is about the transparency of the budget, the implementation of the budget, the control role of parliament and where Serbia's parliament is in relation to other parliaments in the world. You had to keep this lecture short, which Mr. Djordjevic, the defence minister, did not want to allow MPs of the National Assembly, because it did not comply with the Rules of Procedure, because this is not the topic of the agenda. It could have been the minister when we talked about how and whether Serbia's citizens' funds are being spent enough transparently or not, to report for the discussion and give us this lecture, and that would have been in place. He obviously now got this preparatory text, but it's too late. As you don't ever give us a word because we're late, because we are or we're not in the O.R., so I get two warnings, then you had to interrupt Mr. Djordjevic and ask him to postpone this lecture for another opportunity and I would be willing to listen to him about this and about something else, but there has to be time and place for everyone. That is what this Rules of Procedure is for, and that is why there is a member of 106 who says that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I'm asking you, yes, we've been working for a long time, but we have a new session next week, and you've scheduled us a new session with 22 points of the agenda, so we'll be working long enough, so please hold the Rules of Procedure like this at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9779	Thank you. You're right. There's no replica. [[Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Can I replica?]] How's the replica when the minister read something you've all been discussing? There's no replica, there's nothing to do. So, you're right, there's a website, everything we say isn't transparent, it's transparent and we move on. We move on to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid. The minister wants to apologize. I didn't let him apologize. I'm sorry I didn't interrupt. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Together, Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted to the 1st Amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9780	What Minister Vujovic would say, eh, let's see what this is all about. On the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. In order for the people who might be looking at this to know exactly what this is about, this law was supposed to be called a temporary law, if it's temporary, of taking part of the pension. Although it has been promised that the withdrawal of pensions will last much shorter, this has already been delayed. You also plan for the next year with some 1.5%, you call it an increase, but it's not an increase, because where pensioners have been retired for nearly three years, pensions have to return to the level that was in 2014, and then you have to return everything from 2014 to the payday, or that increase, to make it worth it, and only after that can you talk about increasing pensions. This is some coordination that is misery and misery and, unfortunately, nothing will contribute to our pensioners' budgets, nor will God know the benefits of this. So, nothing has been done by these ministers, gentlemen, nor have you helped me improve standards, but I am also interested in the Constitutional Court that hears who is watered, and in time they have decided not to discuss this law because it is temporary character. But that's what we'll talk about when we're at the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9781	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9782	Please, just a quick question to Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9783	You will ask him under the second amendment. I don't have any more amendments, but really ten seconds. I'm just asking Minister Vujovic to explain to me what birth budgeting is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9784	He'll explain, the amendment has passed, and in the end I'll give him a chance, but not under this law. Please, not under this law, I can't. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9785	Is this on article 21 of the previous law or on this last one?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9786	Last law, Article 1. The bill changes and reads.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9787	So how come you didn't see me sign up? Okay, come on, since you're in a hurry in the EU. You told this member that European pension limits, 15,000, 25,000 and 40,000, are European standards, are in line with a more European growth rate of 1.5%. I return you to something that reflects changes in the social state, in social policy. In social protection, one principle applies, that all social benefits are accompanied by market movements. It used to be a cost-of-life increase, and now it's a consumer basket, inflation, because they're people who can't make money. I only suggested what exists already in the existing laws, but you said – by European, pension of 15,000, pension of 25,000, pensions of 40,000, these are border values. Depending on that amount, a pensioner is punished under EU rules. I, as a major opponent of the EU that is stealing KIM from us, to remind you, am asking to return to something that is normal for Serbia. Here, I beg you, please, for the sake of life in Serbia, accept this amendment, nothing hurts, and it's not hard to be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9788	MPs Sreto Peric and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Here you go. The MPs Milorad Mircic and Jovo Ostojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The People's MP Jovo Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9789	Thank you. Mr President, MPs, since this discussion has been slowly initiated, I will explain that in fact this amendment 3 has an extremely good intention, who wants to understand. Whoever doesn't want to understand, then that intention is bad, that's why it's bad because the one who needs to understand doesn't understand. This is about drastic retirement cuts. So they're not going to retire, they're going down, they're going down. No matter how price increases, that's how pensions go down, and this is where it was wanted to stop the lower pensions. You don't let it stop, you're destroying it even more. Prices are going up, pensions are going down. Well, you're not gonna tell me now that they're growing up, are you? Why didn't you accept this amendment that the SRS submitted, which sees ahead, that doesn't look backwards? It's a party that's party to the future. What you've done here with this amendment, it's not right. You have to admit it's not right. I'm asking you to fix it. You are not correcting it because of those who submit amendments, but you are correcting it because of pensioners, because of those who live on it very miserablely and miserablely. You led here to have a pension of 15,000, of 25,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9790	Thank you. Time. I have to stop you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9791	Please, just let me finish, I've got two seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9792	You don't. It's all right. You're not talking about the amendment. MPs Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid. I have asked this amendment of mine to stop this law that has been in force since the New Year, since 1 January 2017. What was I looking for, and what does that essentially mean? This means that the time it took to reduce pensions and that pensions should be returned to the level from two years ago until 2014, and any increase that may have been adopted and prescribed should refer to this amount that was valid before this increase. Everything else would be a manipulation and would be a bear role for pensioners, a story of an increase of one or 1.5% is nothing but an insult to pensioners, and even that one-time increase of 5,000 dinars that the government has defined for pensioners means nothing to pensioners, at least most pensioners don't mean anything. I'm guessing the government's been thinking about this. Given the fact that from the government, from the ministers, from the prime ministers, from everyone here in the ruling coalition, we've listened to each step, and in this room, how well we're doing, how this government has achieved unremembered results, simply, here, this is an opportunity to show you that we're really on the move, that these results are really what you represent and that you finally get to meet the pensioners and give them back what they truly earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9794	Thank you. Miljan Damjanovic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. They have submitted to the 1st amendment together and there are Marko Djurisic and Miroslav Aleksic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9795	This is very important and the government was extremely dishonest when it proposed this law, because then it had to in its name delete the word "temporary". So, this law is a temporary arrangement of how to pay off pensions. What this amendment, as the government has suggested, makes this law permanent, means that pensions will not be as promised when the law was adopted, 20% and 25%, respectively, and not 5.8% as the prime minister here said. My neighbor Voja asks me – I've been counting all night and every time I count, I see my pension is less than 25%. I can't get to that number of 5.8% that the Prime Minister spoke of. Here's a word from Mr. Vulin two years and two months ago, when we passed the law and the amendment was given to clear the period of time of this law until December 2017, Mr. Vulin says: "This government has at least three years left." A lie – we had an election a year ago. Then he says: “This is the way we wanted to say one thing – we hope that the revenue side of the budget will be improved long before 2017. Why would they limit themselves? We believe in this country and believe in its economy and believe in its people. In any case, we will do so before 2017." Now I ask you, at the end of 2016 – what are you doing? The law on temporary pension cuts becomes a permanent law. The permanent law, and this is the prime minister here, told all Serbian citizens -- I did not reduce pensions 20-25%, but 5.8%, and I will raise them by 1% every year. And those 700 thousand citizens who have been kidnapped by 20 and 25% of their pensions should know that while Alexander Vukic is there, he will never get them back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9796	Thank you. Time. But you don't have time anymore. Your group spent all their time. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by legislators Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9797	Thank you, President. Except for the fact that you obviously have no intention of returning pensioners or pensions to the old ones, nor to return to them what they had during the downsizing period, we are simply concerned by this incredible otter that the prime minister himself, and apparently the government's policy, has toward those pensioners who have bigger pensions. The greatest humiliation from the SNS is that you somehow managed to convince the citizens that the pensions of 40,000 dinars were large, that it was a fortune for those people who had 40,000 dinars of pension. I think it's the most controversial fact, that people with 40,000 dinar pensions really started to apply to people who have some big money and that it's the people that the rest of the pensioners envy. And what the prime minister said on several occasions was that he personally felt that, before reducing that difference, they were unfair, unfair, etc., that his parents had reduced pensions, that they would now not return to the level before the reduction, that his parents would not get an increase, you know, that's his private matter. His private matter is if he thinks his parents have too many pensions. He needs to settle it with his parents, arrange with them to pay those pensions for humanitarian purposes or something else to do, but he has no right to give other pensioners who had more than 40,000 dinars that money he took to them not to pay them back. Again, the biggest injustice and the greatest humiliation for the citizens of Serbia is that you convinced them that the pensions of 40,000 dinars are large and that is the picture and opportunity of your three-year government and this whole pension reduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9798	Thank you. Replica, the word has Vladimir Orlic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9799	You're welcome to sign up for the amendment, Madam President, since this is, I believe, the final debate of the amendment. An explanation of why I don't think the amendment should be accepted would be the same as an explanation for all the other amendments we haven't given an answer to, wanting to show an economic relationship with time, for a very obvious and simple reason – which there's no need or purpose to support amendments that are not even interested in their proposings, that have been held here again in two minutes by some principle debate and talked about everything other than what they have proposed themselves. All this shows not only the relationship to the amendment, but also the relationship to the issue of these pensions and generally anything that is of interest to the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-09-0.u9800	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Does the minister want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, December 10th, 2016, starting at 10.00 p.m., as the Day for Voting on Points of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 158 MPs are present in the hall. Only MP Ivan Kostic has officially informed us that he will not attend the vote. Since the Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2016, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – 11, the abstentions - there are no, there are no five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2016, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – 17 abstentions – there are no, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2016 as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 19 abstentions – there are no, there are no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the draft decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2016 as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – 20 abstentions – there are no, there are not three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving to agenda five. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – 21, the abstentions – no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, no one has voted 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 177 MPs did not vote for – one, against – one, one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four members of the SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four members of the SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Jasmina Nikolic and MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the SDS Parliament Group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic, MP Jasmina Nikolic, MPs Dejan Šukić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, MP Dusan Pavlovic and MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The SDS MP group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. Please don't play when the vote is concluded, so I don't have to change the results. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against them there is none, the abstentioned, who have not voted 172 people's messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: no four MPs voted for – 157 against – 19 abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – 21, the abstentions – there are no, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. I am voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, v – 14. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 Members of the people. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belacic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Mr Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Momcilo Mandic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic and MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Zoran Krasic and Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, together with nine MPs of the Democratic Party and MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To Article 7 and to which a new Article 7a is added after Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 8, against – for – there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Six MPs from the LDP and SDA Sandzak MPs submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 8, against – for – there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – four, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbiaslav Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, v – eight, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – nine, with abstention – two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, v – nine, abstention – two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 9 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 10 against – two abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Nenad Canak submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – eight, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for –10, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Jasmina Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—13, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A letter from LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment, in the same text, Tomislav LJubenović, Zoran Krasic, Vladimir Đurić, together Dejan Šulkić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, together with the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Marco Djurisic: How do you do together? He can't do it together. He writes together, together, so that everyone can speak for two minutes. That's how it's spelled. (Marco Djurisic: He can't do it together.) You take care of the Rules of Procedure. Together when they signed the amendment, but you discuss it with the service, not with me, please. I'd ask you not to bother me, because I'm being attacked by the trustees, and now you're attacking me, so let me do my job. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Marko Djurisic: He writes in the Rules of Procedure.) This is never how it was done. Don't argue with me after ten years of making a synopsis like this. Here, I will appeal to the Citizens' Protector not to be allowed to hold a session, as I have been challenged to have the right to discuss as a representative of the citizens. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (People MP Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. He can't, and the trustee attacked me, and everyone attacked me, and I'm afraid of them. Yeah, I'm afraid of them, because they chose us, not us. It's not easy for me to continue the course of the session. It's not easy for me, that kind of pressure, someone who affects public opinion. It doesn't matter. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the People's Parliament of Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic submitted together to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 11th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 13th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic and together by the Social Democratic Party - the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
