ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2182	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 102 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request an explanation or to ask a question in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2183	I think that we have a rather extraordinary situation in our country and, of course, what I'm going to ask today is how important it is for the work of our fellow MPs and, of course, I'm going to refer it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because I think everything else would be a waste of time. First of all, as regards the most recent in a series of EU blackmails, which, on a single case, is so beautiful and picturesquely seen as the EU is blackmailing us on the issue of having to give up one of the naturally huge parts of our property in Kosovo and Metohija. Indeed, today the question arises that it may actually be a motive for so much kidnapping between Kosovo and Metohija all the time because of the huge assets and the huge wealth that we have in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not sure, and that's actually the point of my question, that such an important topic as Kosovo and Metohija can only remain on the government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why my question for the Prime Minister, and also for the President of the Assembly, is it urgent that we have an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and take a common position on such blackmail from Brussels? It's such an alarming question now. It is the property of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, not only telecommunications property, but also "Trepci", and of course everything else that is not currently mentioned, and what is also in the procedure of kidnapping by so-called. "Spitar" institutions in Pristina, and I really think it is a priority for this topic to come to the Assembly's agenda. In any case, I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to urgently answer the question of how will the state react to these latest blackmails from Brussels? Another issue also concerns the alarming situation in Republika Srpska. So, the growing pressure on Republika Srpska's political leadership, the growing number of threats to Republika Srpska's president, and the same issue concerns the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in the direction of whether and how will we finally stand in direct and open protection of the interests of Republika Srpska and its political leadership that threatens sanctions and which in other ways wishes to isolate? The question about the Republika Srpska is the question about this farce in which we look at the number of votes in Srebrenica, and should we as a state react before some form of electoral theft occurs, some counterfeiting of the electoral will of the citizens of Srebrenica or what is already planned to stop, to say, the takeover of power in Srebrenica by the winners in the elections, of course, the Serb, which is as we have heard so many times disputed about them? And, the third thing that really, I think we all agree on these days is one of its kind of peaks is the migrant crisis. When will we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discuss the dangers posed by the migrant crisis, everything that has been happening lately when we have the Prime Minister himself said he doesn't know what to do with the thousands of migrants that have happened in our country, who have already started robbing, trying to rape, to walk around the country as he wants and do what he wants? I think we come to a very dangerous area and that we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have one session on the subject and put this topic really at the top of our priorities. Simply, you are all witnessing how crucial this is in all European institutions, how much of the topic everyone is discussing at the level of Europe and individual countries and at EU and global level is, of course, the only topic is not the topic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And, in that sense, it is my request for the president of the National Assembly. We, as a parliamentary group, will in any case initiate this topic in different ways, but it is indeed a request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and why not, also to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to have his entire cabinet here with us and to discuss together what we do with the increasingly dangerous consequences of the migrant crisis for the safety of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2184	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2185	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to take this opportunity and this parliamentary opportunity to question the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on the subject of the fact that the tax administration of the Republic of Serbia has not issued tax solutions to the businesses paying the flat-rate tax for two years. When the government was elected, and then there was the prime minister, i.e. the prime minister with the candidates for ministers, I asked the question and the finance minister where the whole thing got stuck, and she got stuck because the finance ministry didn't bring a regulation based on which the tax administration could issue the tax settlements. He said, then, Prime Minister, now Prime Minister, that it would be quick. It's been two months. I think that in some normal life when you say fast, for the adoption of one regulation, two months is more than enough, but in this case it's obvious that two years are not enough to adopt one regulation, to bring tax solutions and to make small businesses, who pay taxes on a flat-rate basis, can normally do business and develop their business. This year has been declared by the government for years of entrepreneurship. Many like both government members and prime minister and MPs of the ruling majority here to talk about how, behold, the state is doing a lot. This is one small thing. So, the tax administration, which, again, we hear is being burdened by the procedures for returning VAT to babies, and we're going to end it, not issuing tax solutions, without these tax solutions, the businessmen can't go to the bank, they can't ask for credit, they can't contact other state authorities. Those who have started their business in the last year, two days, don't pay that tax, that debt is piled up. When a tax solution is issued, they will likely find themselves in an uninvited situation that they can't possibly settle that debt or that they can't settle it at once, they'll have a hard time doing business and all that again, I say, in the year that's been declared a year of entrepreneurship. So I ask the prime minister - when will the government bring that regulation? If the Ministry of Finance is not able, and it is not, I call on him to do so with his cabinet, in order to unplug this one thing that I repeat takes two years and that prevents economic development, economic development of Serbia, which, we agree, is one of our priorities in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2186	Thank you. National MP Nenad Milic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2187	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Republic Public Prosecutor. I put this question where I thought it was his place, which is on the Justice Committee, when the prosecution filed an annual report for 2015. Unfortunately, on that committee, the D.A.'s representatives kept their mouths shut, as if I'd asked them about Savamala, and I didn't. I asked them to clarify their statement of the so-called 2015 coup. So I'll remind you briefly what the Republic Prosecutor said in 2015 about an affair known in public as a coup. The Serbian prosecutor's office said last night that in co-operation with other state bodies it would prevent the country from destabilising, by launching an appropriate criminal procedure. Republika Srpska's public prosecutor, Zagorka Dolovac, said the more public prosecutor's office in Belgrade is checking all the allegations made in public at the expense of the prime minister, as well as the founding and trueness of the criminal application, filed by Aleksandar Kornegic. The prosecutor's office is also demanding to determine who and what purpose this information has brought to the public. The prosecution will, in accordance with its legal powers, protect constitutional order and rule of law, by quick and effective in co-operation with other state authorities, preventing the destabilising of the country by launching an appropriate criminal procedure, which will be notified to the public in good time. Since the destabilising of the country a year ago, from the fact that the public will be quickly and timely informed, that criminal charges will be filed, we have had only the pain of the prosecution, so my question for the prosecutor I hope is simple and I hope that the prosecutor's answer will be a relationship to this Parliament, not a relationship with me or the LDP, i.e. I hope that the prosecutor will answer the very simple question this time. What happened to the coup? What happened to destabilising the constitutional order? Was there destabilising one, or wasn't it, or was the whole story made up? If there was destabilization of the constitutional order, what did the prosecution do, did it file criminal charges against which persons and at what stage are these criminal charges? I think that, we all often testify that the prosecution, consciously, unconsciously, deliberately, or whatever, is involved in some political games. But the political game of destabilising the country is too serious to miss the prosecution, to participate in this in such an unserious way. I think it is in the interest of both this Assembly and all citizens to get an answer and close the issue once more – was there a coup, was there destabilising the country, was it, as it were said here, a serious violation of constitutional order? I think these are too serious questions and I hope the D.A.'s gonna answer all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2188	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there is one thing that is very important for 2016 from the corner of the rule of law, violations of institutions, non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which we are all as MPs and representatives of citizens interested, I sincerely hope that, in terms of settlements in Savamala, on the night between 24th and 25th April, on the night when votes were numbered after parliamentary and local elections, a group of several dozen thugs with phantoms on their heads, baseball bats, kidnapped and intimidated citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with buffers destroyed several objects that were privately owned, more precisely owned by the company "Skra", then "Transport Perons", the restaurant "Savski Express", as well as several housing facilities. The police didn't answer their calls that night. The police transferred the responsibility she had for that case to the municipal police. The state police said they don't go out on the ground in a deal with the police. Then in the end, we have been waiting six months for who actually destroyed Serbia's constitutional order in one part of the territory. If we bear in mind that the More Public Prosecutor's Office has been silent for six months, if we bear in mind that the investigative procedure in the hands of the police is obviously being obstructed and apparently the police are not doing their job properly, if we bear in mind that the public prosecutor's office is no longer taking over the investigative action, we believe that the institutions are in this way collapsing, that the pressure of the executive and the top of the authorities on the prosecution and the police is so great that there is no courage for this case to end, having in mind and the concern of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2190	Ambassador, you need to be in the form of a question. You're going into discussion, not in the form of a question. And I'm asking you to avoid pressure on the authorities with this discussion. That's what you're doing right now. I apologize, not to the authorities, but to the judicial authorities, and you keep doing it. I have to react. You make them do something, and you know we've opened negotiating chapters on capital issues and we can't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2191	The question comes at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2192	Resist the pressure on the judicial authorities with your public discussion, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2193	Let me just, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2194	I'll give you time, but don't use a press conference to pressure the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2195	Since the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has said that the highest city authorities are involved in this case, we are asking on the basis of which information and by whom did the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia say that the top city government is involved in this case, which the international community is also interested, precisely because of the opening of chapters 23 and 24, and even the OSCE felt that it was more than important for this case to end? As a MP, I can't pressure myself, but I can refer to organs that don't do their job. Our role in this House is to oversee institutions that don't do their jobs. If six months pass by from a crime, if we have those who have been kidnapped, those whose property has been destroyed, without institutions responding to such a thing, then as MPs, we have an obligation to ask when the institutions will work and when will the perpetrator and the orderer of this crime be revealed? This event has caused great concern for citizens, a series of street protests, and we believe it is of great importance that the polling committee be formed as soon as possible, that police representatives and the D.A.'s office are called in as soon as possible, in order to reveal the identity of those who committed this crime. Another question – why is there no transmission to RTS from day to day? It is the right of the MPs and citizens of Serbia to watch the session broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2196	Thank you. Who are you giving this question to? (Balša Bozovic, from the city: you. To me? Great. To answer that, the judiciary is not an institution... (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: The prosecution? )......................................................................................................... And the prosecution isn't an institution. You can't call the judiciary an institution. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Institution of the System. No, it's a branch of government. The institution is something else. Ambassador, you'll have a chat with the other MPs later. Mr. Bozovic, when you drink coffee, pay attention to me. I ask MP Balša Bozovic when he finishes drinking coffee to pay attention to me because he asked me something. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I did not ask you. It is. I'm not the director of RTS and I don't want to be that ever in my life... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Must be interested. All right. When you stop throwing away, when you take a little into account that we are conducting a dialogue, the dialogue is not tossing out the MPs' bench, I can refer your question to the director of RTS, but to modify it a little – why were there two days of transmission after 18.00 hours? We are in direct transmission, and you asked, "Why are there no more direct transfers?" A big difference, after 18.00 hours, may I add your question, otherwise there will be an answer – yes, there is, but after 18.00 hours there have been two times that? May I modify your question? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You can. I thank you. I expect you'll get an answer. I can't put pressure on RTS because it's not allowed. I can't put pressure on any media houses, I can just ask a question and read you the answer. I can't pressure myself as a politician or the authorities of the judiciary. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You can put pressure on all the organs. I can't pressure myself. Ambassador Bozovic, you have asked the Prime Minister a question about the conduct or failure of judicial authorities in connection with a specific case. I'm afraid he can't answer that question. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: For what? ) Because he must not be interested in proceedings in this country. You've brought something out here, so it turns out that you know a lot about a case and I'm afraid you've qualified as a witness and I'm asking the MPs not to bring up something they don't know and that's under the procedure of certain organs. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I asked the Prime Minister a question. ) Take your question, read well, and I will certainly forward it to whoever you want me to forward, but pay attention to what you say, because you stand as facts, as something you know and pressure the judicial authorities. Today we are witnessing that something truly outrageous has happened, that the name of the person who has to act on this subject has come out. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Not the name and last name. ) You think it doesn't matter, so maybe because you're not a lawyer or because you don't have enough awareness that it's a very dangerous thing and that it puts public pressure on the person who is investigating. I'm not going to argue any further, but I'm obliged that when we do something that we can't do, I try to influence you not to do it. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I did not say the name and name of that person, but I... One MP suggested that I could put pressure on whoever I wanted. I don't want to put pressure on myself, but I want to draw attention to it and make an effort not to do it, if we honor others, that we don't do it, that we abstain, as there were really inappropriate comments yesterday and false facts about the death of two girls. Don't do that, it doesn't bring political points. (Employees earn time) For what time? Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: For all of us. We're here to work. Is that right? We're working, MP, pitching isn't work and questioning isn't work, it's a reflection of house failure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2197	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is not the pressure on the judiciary, but it is to encourage the judicial authorities to do their job. It refers to the following – what will the competent authorities, prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice, etc., do for the destruction of nine buildings in India, of which six were protected by the state, which was destroyed in 2007, by first selling, renting for 99 years, as unbuilt building land, and then the buildings were destroyed on unbuilt building land? It's a communal, water, public enterprise, construction directorate, Rajović Danica private house and others, working university, Mimose building, Srem furniture factory, ZDOPA building, etc. These facilities have been sold as construction land for millions of dollars. According to the information I received as a National MP, investigative actions were completed in 2013. During 2014, part of the case was split between the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Higher Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica and it is in a drawer somewhere. I believe that the opposition, creative or external, have the right to ask questions about the collapse, but I ask that there be order. First, let's examine what it was in 2007 and 2008? Since the buildings were legally built, and not the barracks became not built building land, then the municipality paid for the destruction of buildings on construction land, for example "Merkator", sold it to the "Trad Junik Center", where the president of the municipality had a certain residential area, a penthouse of 250 m2, where the director of the Construction Directorate also owns some space, they masked some firms, so when it comes to destruction, I ask that the authorities of the judiciary turn to order, to examine it and to examine the perpetrators of penalties according to the law. Also, my question concerns "Energo Green" – what will law enforcement authorities do according to a Serbian-Belgiumn fraud in India called "Energo Green"? What they participated in, not only these politicians from Belgrade, but also those from India, again the president of the municipality is capable and successful, where the Belgians' compensation request is 120m euros or we will now grant a 10m-euro subsidy annually or seek 120m euros in arbitration. They're asking us to remove all of our own domestic cafilariums and be monopolies. Otherwise, because they were led astray by local and republican authorities, they are seeking compensation of 120m euros. My question – what will the state, the prosecution that became selected there in 2009 that became the prosecution of their party, do to make the perpetrators of the sentence and who will pay for the damage, from which pockets will be paid if we are punished for this Belgian-Serbian fraud committed against our country? The last question is what is the state going to do, and I see that this is in progress, to remove from 2011 the consequences of imports by the party of the former regimes, the radioactive fertilizer imported in quantities of over 2.900,000 kilograms, since this radioactivity lasts for thousands of years? What will be done to remove the consequences? The last issue concerns land, is it true that thanks to the new law, and the former regime's party said there was no usurpation, that by May 1st, tens of thousands of hectares were introduced into the system and about two million euros were charged. I'm looking for accurate data on how much of the usurped land we've brought in?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2198	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2199	My question today will be addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic and Transport Minister Zorani Mihajlovic. It's about building what's called the so-called construction. The "great Albanian highway" he via Merdar, Pristina to Drac. Since a few years ago, it has been solemnly announced as a priority project to build a highway connecting Nis, Pristina, Tirana and Durres. In each normal country, procedures for making decisions on the construction of an important traffic corridor are made on the basis of some rules and on the basis of some previously adopted traffic development strategies. In the general master plan for the development of infrastructure transport in the Republic of Serbia by 2027, which the government adopted and which is valid today as traffic priorities are listed various directions, but there is no direction in the master plan, nor is there an E 80 highway that leads from Nis via Merdar to Tirana and Drac. My question to the prime minister is – what were the motives for making up this project overnight and putting it as a priority in the development of our travel infrastructure, past adopted travel infrastructure development strategies and beyond the master plan that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should probably respect the prime minister himself? What were the reasons for that? How is this project going to be implemented, who's going to pay for it, how much is it going to cost us? Has a previous analysis of the justification of the construction of that highway been made, has a technological-economic analysis been made? And what did she show? In each normal country, before making such a strategically important decision, how justified is it to invest certain money in order to implement such a large project? The reasons for making such a decision can be and above all should be developmental, motivated by economic parameters, although sometimes there are political reasons that can help to make decisions to invest money in building a highway. In a normal procedure for justification for the construction of a single highway, it is necessary that a minimum of 10,000 vehicles be placed on that track in order to have economic justification. Of course, it is clear to the layman that there are not so many vehicles in this direction, nor is there a reason to invest so much money to connect Pristina with Tirana and Nis. Especially given that on the official site of the Republic of Albania's Ministry of Building, this project is plotted and this highway is mapped as part of the Greater Albania map where part of that Greater Albania is also the town of Nis. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia what are these motives, which is the country in the world that meets separatist requirements for expanding its territory and building their highway? According to what we heard in the media, the money to build that highway will be taken from foreign funds, i.e. we'll be in additional debt and we'll pay for the construction of that highway. What are the interests of the Republic of Serbia to meet the separatist demands of Greater Albania? Is this someone preparing for the Republic of Serbia to put another part of its territory under occupation, which was launched under the auspices of the EU, which directly promoted Angela Merkel at the Conference in the Western Balkans?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2200	Time, thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2201	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the DJB Parliament Club has some questions to refer to the government of the Republic of Serbia. This time we've chosen two questions that we consider to be of great importance. One question of strategic character. The second question is quite operational events. At present, there is an exceptional dissatisfaction in the associations of businessmen and in general in the business world of Serbia, by the fact that a previous assembly had adopted a law on chambers of commerce, which gave the state chamber de facto privileged status, i.e. an institution of a hornet name called mandatory membership was introduced. When it has mandatory membership, in fact you do not have membership and businesses in Serbia have well recognised that it is in fact the introduction of a new parafiscal and that the coronation of this new parafiscal will happen at the end of the year of entrepreneurship, I guess as a gift to our businessmen, that they can do even better and more successfully by paying for one service they did not ask for. An initiative has been put in place for the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of such a law, thus denying freedom for economic operators in the Republic of Serbia to choose how they will, in what way, when and in what form of association. Several more constitutional initiatives are also expected. We have definitely received a law that essentially misses the interests of the economy and which is even the worst way to deny the basic principle of freedom of choice and puts new costs into and such a difficult situation that exists in the economy that has just begun to recover slightly due to very good developments in the world market, because all economies in the region have entered recovery, some in a much larger degree than Serbia, some in a similar degree. So my question to the Minister of Economy is to consider, to prepare amendments, to prepare proposals in fact, to amend the law that will enter into force on January 1st, making one thing that is deeply wrong, correct. This is what we expect especially given the announced changes in the functioning of the Ministry of Economy. Another issue that is of strategic character and which is very important and that I would refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in general is the question that we have a lot to discuss about our foreign policy definitions, that we have a lot of debate here on which direction Serbia should go, but that we do not have defined our foreign policy direction in one place, or that we do not have an external political strategy that all serious countries have. For example, the United States plans 50 years ahead of what foreign policy will lead to. We know that we are going to the EU, but we have no answer to the question of what if this process goes slower, due to some events that are not under our control. We don't have answers to many other questions. We point out that the relationship with Russia is one of the key relations for Serbia's economy, but we do not have answers to questions as to how this relationship will look in light of our first strategic priority of approaching the EU. And also in foreign policy, we have no definitive answers to how we're going to run regional policy over the next 20-30 years. How do we plan to make peace with our neighbors? It has been pointed out that the key to relations in the Western Balkans is relations between Albania and Serbia. In what way do we think that these relationships are arranged, which are alternatives, because life is an extremely dynamic phenomenon, foreign policy has been extremely complex over the last two years. What do we have answers to scenarios that can answer? We have found some answers in progress, literally a stalker, such as the migrant crisis, but the challenges are being set and we must have a strategy and we must have answers to all possible challenges that can arise before Serbia. These are serious issues, it is a question of our survival, the issue of Serbia's security and the question of what the future will look like in 10 or 20 years. The adoption of a clear foreign policy strategy with a clear analysis of scenarios, resources, how we will respond to challenges that may arise, identifying what our key priorities are, what secondary priorities are and of key importance for Serbia's development, should be a document that will concern not these current majority, but the majority that will occur in the next 10 to 20 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2202	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Vojislav Seselj; and let the messenger of the people, Joseph Broz, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. The Dosmanli regime many years ago, acting on the dictatorship of Western forces, under which it has always been very serviceable, and this new one is quite, but not to this extent, it seems to me, we will now see what happens around Kosovo, the Dosmanli regime has therefore decided to impose sanctions on us friendly states -- Belarus, Syria, Iran and North Korea. We had absolutely no reason to seduce those countries. Belarus is an independent, sovereign state that has its democratic elections, in which the people decide which will be the highest authorities, Belarus is not an aggressor country. Belarus stands for peace in world politics, etc., and most importantly, it has always been solid with Serbia and has helped us when it has been most difficult. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, during the bombing, risked his life and came to visit Belgrade to express solidarity. They may say, "Well, they knew Lukashenko was coming, so they wouldn't shoot." They knew where the Chinese embassy was, so they shot her, the same way they shot the Chinese embassy, they could shoot Lukashenko. He had the courage to come. So, what did he get in return from Serbia? Sanctions. Why sanctions? Because it doesn't belong to the Western forces, because it remains in a strong alliance with Russia. When we soon establish a strong alliance with Russia, when we enter into a military pact with Russia, maybe we'll find something new to please, and it's not far away, it's here somewhere in front of us. That is why I demand that the sanctions of Belarus be lifted as soon as possible. Syria has also since its beginning as an independent state, our friend, a friend of Yugoslavia, and a friend of Serbia. There's never been anything disputed between us. Always good relationships, always good cooperation at the highest level. Syria is not an aggressor country. Why are the sanctions of Syria being seduced? Because the Western operation failed to bring down secular civilised regimes in the Arab world, failed in Syria, they succeeded in Libya, they succeeded in Tunisia. Tunis, thank God, consolidated himself, so he did not go the way he could, which in Egypt the Muslim brothers would take away from the entire Egyptian people that General Sissi was not self-absorbed and realized at one point what his military duty had imposed on him, and then gained the legitimacy of the people for the move, which in the beginning might not be called legitimate. Why don't the Americans take down these feudal regimes in Saudi Arabia, in Qatar, in Jordan? Why don't they knock down the regimes there? These regimes are good for them because they are democratic. In Saudi Arabia, they still cut their hands and heads off, and there's no D of democracy. It is not in Syria the concept of democracy similar to the European one, but Syria is a very civilized, legally decorated state and with the highest degree of religious tolerance in the Arab and Muslim world, as well as in the world at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2204	You're closing, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2205	Here, I'm bringing the end. Iran is also a friendly country. There have been some problems during the civil war in BiH, relations have been improved. Most importantly, neither Belarus nor Syria nor Iran have recognised Kosovo, and we return it to them in this way. North Korea has always been friendly to Yugoslavia and Serbia. What kind of regime it has within its borders is a matter of the North Korean people. Nor did North Korea recognise Kosovo, and I therefore demand that sanctions be lifted for these friendly states as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2206	Thank you. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2207	The Honorable Chairman, I am using the right of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, and I want to ask the Minister of Justice for the next notice. It is the further fate of IMT – motor and tractor industries. You know, this is once a giant company that produced thousands of tractors a year now in bankruptcy. Just to remind you, IMT is at its best exporting its famous 539 tractor and connected machines to 84 countries of the world. During the 1970s, IMT was the only European producer of this type of tractor and therefore won half the world. IMT managed to survive a period of sanctions in the 1990s and survive as a brand on the market. In 1988, 9800 workers were employed in IMT, but in 2005, this number fell to 1754. Even in 2005, IMT produced about 800,000 tractors and about 600,000 tools, exported 107,700 tractors and nearly 12,000 connected machines and tools. About 97% of domestic components were installed in IMT tractors, engines were assembled in the IMR, and it collaborated with 200 to 300 domestic cooperative companies with about 5,000 employees. The shutting down of production in IMT poses a serious threat to a large number of domestic production companies. Since May 2013, the state has taken over IMT management with a 95% stake in ownership and then the restructuring process began. No permanent solution has been found to date, unfortunately. The workers have been unemployed for almost two years. Many who retire have no contributions or associated internships. Some of them lost their pension because of it, although they had a full-time job. There were several failed attempts at privatisation. At the end of 2015, a bankruptcy occurred in IMT and a solution is still being sought. In this regard, my question to the Minister of Industry is whether there is a possibility of taking certain measures to permanently resolve the fate of the IMT, for which there is a market for products, and currently over 10,000 tractors stand for lack of spare parts. Thank you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2208	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2209	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I ask my question to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of the Interior, which refers to the event of September 19th this year, when under strange circumstances local authorities were removed in the Municipality of Nova Varoš. I would like to point out and repeat what the Minister said two days ago, that the municipality of Nova Varosh is an example of good practice and presented information in which it is clear how well it was done in the municipality of Nova Varosh for a very short period of time. We also had the opportunity to hear and fearsome accusations at the expense of previous leadership in the municipality of Nova Varoš by Mr. Obradovic, who we now consider to be some kind of smoke curtain for some quite other things that are happening in the municipality of Nova Varoš. The whole debate yesterday came down to a sentence by Mr. Obradovic -- we have proved that we can bring down the Serbian Progressive Party somewhere. So, while we were proving that one municipality could work well, that one municipality after taking over power in 2012 from the SNS-led DS can bring in 2,500 overnight tourists in three years 45,000, many economic reforms that have produced results, someone at the time proved that they could bring down that power. So much for who he was dealing with and who he was doing what he was doing. Another very serious charge went to the headship of the municipality of Nova Varoš, which is that they sold the hotel "Panorama". It's true they're on the lease, there's a lease agreement. The municipality of Nova Varoš invested certain funds in the hotel "Panorama" and was defined by the lease agreement until 2023. So it could all be checked in the catastro. Mr. Obradovic only needed to shorten the joint press conference with DS, go to the cadastre and see that the burden on the object in question was established. What's very important for the analysis is the quarry in the municipality of Nova Varosh and a very interesting project they wanted leaders to enter now of previous leadership. In order to meet the announced reconstruction of the Belgrade railway – at least for next year, the municipality of Nova Varoš decided to buy a quarry in the municipality, so in their municipality, and to make a huge profit to the municipality at the moment the works on that section of the railway Belgrade – Bar, which was a remarkable move welcomed by the current majority, except for that part of Dveri. What's going on? There is a shift in local leadership, and suddenly the decision to buy that quarry is out of force. We only have two reasons to doubt why it was done like that. One is that in those 20 days, the deadline has expired for that stone, and the other is to prepare some combination for some other people's pockets. Now it's up to the citizens to assess what's out of those two. I want to point out that, behold, that stone resisted thousands of years ago thousands of years before the new era, but after a new team of the Democratic Party and the Dwri won't last longer than two months. What our people would say, there will be no stone left on the stone. So, we have an interesting situation, that the team of new authorities in Nova Varosha, the Democratic Break team and the Dvori are unable to preserve one quarry for more than two months, and they are giving us a lecture on how to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2210	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, Prof. Dr Zarko Obradović, Branko Ružić, Marjana Maras and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. We are continuing a joint Single Search on the motions for decisions from points 2 to 11 of the agenda. I would ask my fellow MPs to wait for representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to enter the O.R., and we will continue to work, which is in about 30 seconds. We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I demand that this material be fully returned to the proposings, because it does not meet some of the general conditions that are common in the civilized world when it comes to selecting leaders within the judiciary system and also within the prosecution's institution. We can argue whether the prosecution belongs to a system of judicial authority or not, it doesn't matter, it's important that our reasons here are consistent. I'll start with a proposal to elect a deputy public prosecutor. The first thing that came into my eyes, there's no average rating of the candidate he scored at college. How can you choose someone as a deputy public prosecutor who doesn't have a high average? What's a high average? That's what you know, and eight goes on. How can someone be a public prosecutor without such an average? It's all right with us. That's why you're dropping all charges in these more complicated processes. Because you can't put them together, you can't lead them and shoot them. Now the lawyers have reported themselves. It's not a communist period when lawyers had to do as they were told. You're bringing the justice system into a situation that lawyers are more capable than prosecutors and judges already at the beginning. I'm not going to mention names so I don't sort of disrespect people, because we have a television broadcast, I'm just going to take some information out of which names are not recognizable to the public. The first candidate on the list for Belgrade's First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office has studied for 29 years. Come on, you convince me as a professor of law school, and the outcast professor, that he can be a good prosecutor. Maybe it's good when you go to coffee with him, to a restaurant, when you're on a break talking about what was in whose process and how who was doing it. He can be a good lawyer somewhere, he can even be a good lawyer, but to be a prosecutor, and this is how he studied for a long time, and as soon as you hide the average grade, I'm counting on it to be 6, 6, 3, 6, 7, sometimes and 6,07, there are cases like that, that he's got all six grades except one week. Would that come out then? You count well, Nemanja, but don't come into my word again. Number two, we have a candidate, a candidate, who didn't finish law school at all, there's no college here, she did law school, but who knows how. There's got to be a law school first. Where's your material? There isn't. You've got to get your material back. Give us an explanation, but in writing. Did the candidate finish law school or not? You have here again, in third place, a candidate who graduated from college at the age of 28, so you've got fifth place in 27, sixth place in the year 28, I don't want to speak names, they're probably honest and honest people, why call them names. It's not their fault, it's you who didn't see that criterion. Law school lasts four years. The Master's Study for five years, the Master's study was six years and I guess the High Court or Prosecutor's Office is required to complete the study within the prescribed deadline. Let's take a year to see through our fingers, but it's been too many years to see through our fingers. E, Ivan Duzlevski, prosecutor's assistant at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I've been waiting for him for 27 years to study, but to see how he's praised. He stayed in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and should be put in jail immediately. An honorable man did not stay there except tied up or as an engaged lawyer. No honorable man ever stayed there on another basis. As a liaison officer for the war crimes prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia at the court and as co-ordinator for regional co-operation of the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia since 2013. So he's the one who supplied the Hague prosecutor's office with both original and forged documents, and the charges there, above all, rest on forged documents and now he's being promoted. On the other hand, when there is a debate on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the War Crimes Court, how the processes are directed there, especially the process of this group for Ovcar. Now the court doesn't know what to do. He's got to let them go. Innocent convict and some culprit. But who organized it? It has never been said that it was organised by the head of the military security service, General Aleksandar Vasiljevic, and that Major Veselin Sljivancanin took the prisoners into the hospital, drove them to Ovcara and handed them over to three retired colonels, who had retired Vasiljevic, dressed them with uniforms to organize the shooting. Bogoljub Kijanović, Slavko Tomic, Bogdan Vujic, another alive. One of them was a partisan and said at the beginning, "we know how to deal with Ustashas" and went and killed 200 people, and then accused Republika Srpska's civilian authorities. No one in such a corrupt court and the D.A.'s office deserves to remain in any position in the judiciary. Let's move on. So we have another student, female, 26 years old, one has studied for 27 years, which is not recommended for a prosecutor's office at all. Now we're moving on to the judges. There's one thing that's startled me here, and I tried to find it in the law collection this morning when it's regulated that the courts for violations become part of the justice system. Is that in any law? Here, you five lawyers from practice, nod your head if there is. Is that somewhere? Is the court for violations a judicial institution? He never was. He was never a court for violations, he was an institution of executive, or administrative authority. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: But now it is. ( b) By what law? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: According to the Law on Court Orders. Where do these misdemeanor courts say? (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Criminal Courts. Where does that say? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: It is in the law. ) (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: They have adopted so far. Well, good heavens. What's the problem here? What those who wrote it have no idea about the system to divide the authorities. In a system of power-sharing, power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial, and then each of these branches of government has its own division of legislative, executive and judicial. For example, the National Assembly is the highest legislative authority, but it also carries out administrative authority in small ones, it is its administration, the General Secretariat, and even in some countries it has its own armed force, the Assembly's watch, we have, but it is not uniform because in the National Assembly it should not appear without severe torture, not the police, nor the court guard. There is, of course, a judge's office in small because he can impose certain penalties, he can also conduct a procedure. The executive power also has a legislative function, it cannot pass laws, but it can pass other general legal acts, a regulation, for example. It's her legislative function. And what is the legislative function of the executive? They're misdemeanor courts. So it's everywhere in the civilized world, and so it was with us, until the flood threw these domiciles to the surface, and until Serbia was washed away, not only in this area of justice when they removed 700, as far as it was, judges because they were not politically willing, in all other ways. This was done by someone who had no idea about constitutional law. Let's get to the specifics. Proposed by the judge. We have here an average of what he had in college, but we have, for example, an average. by 9.06; 8.97; 8.16; 8.35 and then 5-7.35. He can't be a judge. If an assistant in college is asked for at least eight, there can be no lower criteria for a judge. The judge is in social status above the assistant, can't be above the regular professor, but above the assistant always. Then we have some with an average of 9.39; 8.74; 9.06, so we come under 10 to 7.22 he was 25 when he graduated college. Well, 7.80 under number 11, so again we have a high average of 9.35; 8.25; so we have some that have studied longer, for example. 27 years old, but it has an average of 8.77, so I think it can be tolerated, 8.55. Number 17 - 7,06 and number 18 - 6,68. Judge, average college 6,68. And when a serious lawyer shows up in court that he can even lift his head to look him in the eye. He'll be seen in court by his college professor either in a civil suit or in a criminal trial. And you're the one who went to the exam seven, eight times, and now you're judging me. For Belgrade courts, the situation is the best, the further we go inland, the worse it gets. We have a case for the Court of Justice in Lazarevec. Number one-7.55 average. Well, then, under number two-- 8, 10 that's fine. Number three-seven. Number four in line - 8.68, we have a 9.61 under number five and then a moot again, 7.67. For the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin, 6.90 studied until 28 years. Is that little, for a judge too much. I say again, I will not insult those who have studied for a long time, but I cannot be judges. Then we have, under number two, studied until the age of 36, so number three has one that has an average of 7.93, but I see there are a lot of published professional papers in legal life, it can be compensation for a lower average. We're going to the Nish Court now. Under number one - studied until the age of 26, and the average score of 6.08, it's the smallest of just a few weeks ago, 6.08 a week somewhere someone, maybe some drunk professor enrolled, two. It beats who doesn't want a positive grade. Then number two, average 6,81. He studied until he was 29 years old, waving. However, as he has recommendations here, he has participated in significant projects with the support of some spy organisations, USAID, a programme to divide authorities, he says. Did you go to those classes about the division of power? You didn't look. So then improving availability...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2212	Please, Mr. Seselj, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2213	Here's the end. There's not much left. Realisation of USAID again doesn't matter. We have 8.35, then 8.88, then 8.45, 9.06, 8.88, 8.36. Another problem with the New Sad Court of Commerce, the first 7.50 average. Studyed... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2214	I'm sorry, Mr. Seselj, it's been... You can also argue with the Messengers. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Just one minute, take away from the parliamentary group. All right, from the MP's group? Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2215	Number two, she studied until she was 29, and the average was 6.53. Number three, studied until 35, average 7.81. Then under number four, 7.77, under number five - 6.90, under number six - 7.97, by the year 33, she studied. Under number seven, by 26 she studied – 6.97. Then congratulations, I must say the name – Marina Rosic 9.81 average. Except, I have to say it out loud. Then number nine, eight, sixty-four. I used to think I'd say the loud names of everyone with an average above eight. Under the number 10 - 8.58, under the number 11 - 7.84, completed studies at the age of 26, with a total of 26. Under the number 12 – 8,16, okay, number 13, judge of the General Court in Novi Pazar – 6,24 average. Then, the next 7.06. Well, back in New Market 6,52. No, they studied at other different universities, don't mix Mr. Zukorlic, but the problem is who pushes these with a low average for judges and who isn't looking for some who have a high average. In Chačka, number 16 - 6,80. Then 6,68, then 7,48, then 7,00, then 7,68 in Chačka. For the New Market Criminal Court 6,84, 6.25, 7.16. We've got a breach in Wait 8.39. All right. Six point ninety-three 26 years of college. Again in Chačka Violation 6.76 to 26 years of age she studied. There's no independent judiciary with judges who aren't the best lawyers. I know, and the 10.00 average isn't exactly a guarantee of absolute being a good lawyer, but if there's between six and seven averages, then it's safe that he can't be a good prosecutor or a judge, but he can manage himself in a legal system on other jobs. He's a graduate lawyer, I don't argue with him, but he's not a graduate lawman extra class to perform extra functions in society. The judicial function must be an extra function in society. It has to be more important than the minister's. Ministers change in no time. The judge remains permanent, no one can drive him away unless the crime is proved to him and that is not the case. That's it. How far did I go? I'm not much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2216	Exactly five minutes. It shall be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2217	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidents, representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and Prosecutor's Office, today again in accordance with the Constitution and the law, we are choosing new judges who should first be elected to the post and new deputy prosecutors. These discussions in the last two years as far as I've been here, an MP led almost always the same way. I mean, first of all, the choice of judges. It was usually Mr. Tomic in front of the High Council, he told us that the procedure was implemented, when seats for judges were advertised, how many candidates applied for, how respected the whole procedure was, and we generally chose these people without some big debate, people who were then candidates and candidates for judges. However, today I have the need to speak and, I say, to raise my suspicions about this whole process and that is why our MP group SDS - the NPS will not give trust to these people, not because of them, but because of suspicion of the process. Why do we have that suspicion? In February 12th of this year, the Assembly elected judges who should be elected to office for the first time. I don't know how many, I can't remember exactly how many candidates were chosen at the time, but one judge was elected among them for the General Court in Loznica, February 12th. It seems to me about September 16th this year that the judge was ordered by the prosecutor's office in action, I say, BIA was arrested for serious corruption charges. So, a few months after we chose her here. I'd like to hear if now that the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed these candidates, has something changed in the procedure? Have more attention been paid to the decision on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity? It is a dignity that, according to the law, implies moral traits with judges who should also have behaviour in accordance with these qualities, and these qualities are as shown here by honesty, security, justice, dignity, perseverance and exampleliness of malignancy with these qualities helps to safeguard the reputation of the judge etc., etc. I don't know if this is a topic, but we need to open this topic in Parliament. Whether all measures are taken in the fight against corruption in our judiciary in courts or not, and without one such debate here or at the High Council of the judiciary among the judges themselves, we can go on the same way we've worked so far. When you look at it, when we chose that judge for the first time, what it says here is what it says about all the candidates we have to choose today. When she was born, how much she studied with which grade, what she did afterwards, and then that she got as all these candidates assessed to be particularly prominent and that, did she meet all these criteria of skills, expertise and dignity, but time very, very quickly showed that something was wrong. So I expect an answer to whether something has been changed after this case or whether it has the intention of the High Council of the judiciary to address the problem of corruption in the judiciary, if for no reason of debt, I do not say because of this case, because unfortunately of the widespread perception of citizens that corruption in the judiciary is very high and the mistrusts that citizens have against the courts. Of course, it can't, and this shouldn't be a place where we judge individuals. These cases related to this judge and the two presidents of the court that we also elected here on the proposal of the High Council of Justice on 26 May 2014, means a little over two years ago, the same reading that all the formal conditions have been met, that they meet all the conditions laid down by the law we chose these two judges for the presidents of the courts. Now we see that they didn't work, did their job decently. I don't want to suspect any of these candidates we're choosing today, Mr. Tomic said it was about young people, although there are people who are 1956, 1960, 1964, so not all young people are, although in Serbia and I am 48 years young. That's what they usually tell me. But there are candidates who are not young. So, we want to open this debate, whether today is about this election or some other time, but it's important, too, and I want to send one message to the judges that are going to be elected, I guess, in addition to our reserve that we have according to their choice, I'm not repeating it because of them, but because of the doubt in the procedure. The fact today is that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is bad, unfortunately, judges are very often in a subordinate position compared to prosecutors. For the past year, it's been a common practice to have spectacular arrests of the great so-called. The criminal groups, that the judges automatically, on the basis of the prosecutor's request, determine months of detention, and that when six months pass, for which time it is required to press charges, there are no charges. They either don't get up at all, or they get up a lot later, since it's been six months. So I call on judges who should be chosen to be brave, to do their job as the Constitution and the law say, to stick to the moral traits that the judge should possess and, by example, to improve the situation in the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2218	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2219	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the promoter, will be focused on the agenda points concerning the election of Judges of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar and the Criminal Court in the same city. Given that it is an area of special sensitivity, and in order to promote a reconciliation policy that implies strengthening the confidence of Bosniaks in the authorities of the Serbian state, of which, due to past relations, are particularly important judicial and prosecutorial institutions, I have a need to convey the views of citizens of Novi Pazar and Sandzak on this issue. Yesterday, we were informed by the rapporteurs that this demanding election process was in accordance with all the procedures and that these days in the Assembly he received a final epilogue and an op, we will subsequently act at the moment of the vote. However, it is important for us to highlight two somewhat problematic things, all in order to improve the selection process and appoint expert staff to the important functions that will follow in the next period. I don't want to get into the biographies and references of the proposed candidates, it's not our goal to tag in person. In fact, it is that there is a legal obligation under which proportionate national representation should be appointed in one environment and the holders of important functions, i.e., the structure of employees in public and state institutions and bodies should be proportionate to the number of population in the area. In Novi Pazar, this ratio is about 80% of Bosniaks versus 20% of Serbs, and according to this proposal, we choose three judges of Bosniak and three judges of Serbian nationality. So 50% to 50%. I don't have the exact information, but I don't think that ratio is respected right now and it's at the expense of the Bosniaks. My question is: was there more judges or those who wanted the job of the Bosniak judge who met the criteria to be elected to the position of judges at the competition at which we heard that 1200 candidates were applied? Also, we have seen that half of the candidates for the election of judges in Novi Pazar are from other cities. Does this mean that Novi Pazar does not have enough lawyers, whether Serbs or Bosniaks, who could behave these functions, especially if we have in mind that there are two law schools in this city, accredited, that produce a quality fit from this area? We refer these questions well-intentioned, because we have an equal policy, both in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, and in Belgrade. We do not want as certain partners of the authorities in the local environment to speak or disdain against the ruling party, honoring them discrimination and everything else they consider to be bad, and where it is important to say it, therefore, in this honorable House, in this assembly, to keep it quiet. Our goal is to warn things and point out what is possible to change, so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel equal, the institutions of the state feel the same way as their own, which can only be achieved by equal treatment. We believe that these criteria will be respected in the future, for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2220	Thank you. Before I give you my word, he'll take an oath from a new MP. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given RIK's decision to grant the mandate of MPs, to fill the seats of MPs in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with the MPs, which are: Studenka Kovacevic, Radoslav Jović, Mladen Lukić, Vera Pavnović and Dr Predrag Jelenković, selected from the Election List Aleksandar Vukić – Serbia wins, Vesna Ivković, Neđe Jovanovic, Jelena Vujić Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic, selected from the Ivica Dačić SPS-JS-Dragan Marković Palma. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Studenka Kovacevic, Radoslav Jovic, Mladen Lukic, Veri Pavnović, Dr Predrag Jelenković, Vesni Ivković, Neđi Jovanovic, Jeleni Vujic Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election and I ask you to prepare yourselves for taking an oath, which you have already done. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Thank you very much. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2221	Thank you very much. First, congratulations to new colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing we have this point on our agenda today. That means that the Serbian judiciary, the prosecutor's authorities, the courts will be strengthened with people I'm willing to believe are a good choice. There wasn't a lot of opportunities, not a lot of time to get into their choices, and go with the fact that we believe they're the right people who choose in the right places. Of course, responsibility for their election will be on the parliamentary majority, and above all on the proposal, which is the State's chief prosecutor, chaired by the republican prosecutor, Mrs Dolovac. Young, good and potential. I'm going to stick to that lawsuit about prosecutors, because they have a big job ahead of them, a lot bigger than it is in front of the judges, because there's a lot of dirty history laundry left behind. The rule of law, of course, needs to bring justice, freedom, to people being free to do their job by law. There are, of course, important and investments whose deficit today in Serbia in the last few years or a little more is the consequence of the fact that the judiciary is very bad. What's the most important job of people to be elected today as prosecutors? To remind me of some cases that stand for a very long time, which are the promises of the current authorities to be resolved by the end of the year, it was by the end of 2012, 2013, 2014 etc., 24 privatisations, "Mobtel", "Bambilend", "Coffer", Saric, Kosmajac, murder of the guard, Asomakum. We don't know who's behind Asomakum. We got a notice that doesn't stand, but we don't know who's standing? What about samal? What about "Belgrade on Water"? What about the helicopter, which is a big mess of this country, where seven people were killed for someone's marketing. These are all serious affairs that prosecutors first and later courts have to carry out. (Alexandar Markovic, from the city: A ‘Impresa’? Vineyards? () Of course, I hear some pitching there, as far as I can understand that unfavorable language, someone is talking about some vineyards and things like that. To inform you in that case, the prosecution gave up prosecution, and before that, the defendant was charged with 20 days in custody during the New Year's Eve. I hope he sues the state to compensate for the damage. Of course, whoever's past should be investigated and prosecutors must be on a very effective and short notice, and these are not hours and days, but weeks and months are, to give the Serbian public an answer to whether the investigation is progressing, whether there are new facts, whether we are close to deciding whether to go to the next step or not? This is how we have a conspiracy of silence. Prosecutors can't be part of an amortisation, part of a conspiracy to silence criminals. The fact that some political parties are involved, that's another thing, but prosecutors and judges must not be part of that system, they must look to their honor. They wake up in some position, and then they go away, and that's true of course for both prosecutors and judges, for MPs not to talk, and we all have to think about it together -- what tomorrow? Not to fall into the slightest, least of all, moral ruin by, say, being in a government in 1999 then supporting the criminal charges against Tony Blair and Bill Clinton, and now that you're the president of the Serbian government, then you take one, this first one as your advisor, and the second you go to worship him. They were convicted, sentenced at the time of the same government, and Mr. Vukic, prime minister of the Serbian government, for the second time, went to kneel before them. That can't happen. I have to remind you that it hurts, but it will. Let me remind you, both the prosecutors and the Serbian public, under Article 16(3). The public prosecutor's law, each public prosecutor is subordinated to a republican public prosecutor and under Article 21(1) that a republican public prosecutor has the right to exercise insight into each case, so that it is clear and personal who is the most responsible, responsible or guilty of the situation in the Serbian prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2222	Thanks, time. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2223	President-in-Office, the esteemed representatives of the VSS, the State Council of Prosecutors, at the outset, since there has been a different debate here on the situation in the judiciary, I want to support the Serbian judiciary, I want to support the judges and prosecutors, given everything they have been through in the past, following the disastrous reform of the judiciary. Those who press charges today, carry out investigations, and the courts stayed on the street for a period of time in the government's 2008-2012 decisions, 150 municipal courts were abolished, their personal dignity was compromised. These people today, after all they've been through, should be given full support. There's been a lot of talk today about justice, the way the judges choose, and it is a question, a question for all of us, as we see, what kind of justice position do we see in our constitutional system? All our mouths are full of independent and independent justice. I think that from the moment the High Council of Justice was formed, to the Constitution that defined the formation of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, we have taken an important step towards establishing this desired goal to get an independent, independent judiciary. I believe that, given the experience experienced by the members of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors and the desire to make a choice within the profession, all holders of judicial functions will be placed on the force. Of course, the subject today is choice, the choice of first time as judges and deputy prosecutors, and certainly there are many criteria that can define what has affected individual candidates to choose and not to choose others. I want to know, and I want to believe that the whole process, which took place in your two important institutions, has been such that all aspects and the entire career of each candidate have been seen, that good judicial assistants have been proposed and that those who are proposed to the deputy prosecutors are the best, considering their work in institutions that have given the highest grade and recommended them, after a few years of experience in writing judgments, prepare the verdicts and in conducting the proceedings. What I want to say to this occasion is – what should be expected, what should be done in the next period when it comes to the judiciary? Citizens expect, with the right, that when they come to the courts for justice, they expect that when procedures are initiated to be completed as soon as possible, because even when justice is achieved after a long time and when judgments are given, if much time passes, they sometimes lose meaning. That is why the issue of a reasonable trial is important, and that is why the issue of education is important for judges and prosecutors. On the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, we held a debate on the report on the VSS, and on this very subject, I was detained, and I want to restart it, because the report also shows that a large number of judgments have been made on the basis of procedures for the protection of the judiciary within a reasonable period of time and that a large number of rulings have been made that compensation must be paid to individual citizens. I think it is important to pay particular attention to the education of the prosecutors' judges in the coming period, and in this sense my question goes on to the role of the Judicial Academy since when looking at the structure of the elected judges, especially the elected judge, only one candidate is being led as someone who is a member of the Judicial Academy in this way is elected, and with the deputy prosecutors there are four. So the low degree is the ones chosen on that basis. I want to ask -- how many total students, initial training, and what are the actual effects of starting training at the Justice Academy? Also, given the elections for several court cases, where does the Judicial Academy and on the basis of the VSS's initiative carry out continuous training, how many permanent training students and how many judges were elected in several court cases? This is an important issue, because a topic has been created here by the Judicial Academy and, of course, the citizens want to know what its effects are, since you yourself said that the full definition of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors is to give priority to candidates who have passed, whether in courts, whether in prosecutors, assistants or other positions. So these are important issues and I think that without serious training, without serious education, we will not overcome this problem, and that is a large number of pending cases to which citizens, with the right to react. Of course, many are the reasons why these cases appear, one of them is the failure of judicial reform, but we must simply understand what the needs of citizens are and how citizens see what Serbia's judiciary should look like. I want to, of course, give my support to your decisions on the proposed candidates. I want to believe that they are the result of a quality analysis of all aspects affecting this choice and in the next period, given that you have now received significant powers in terms of judicial administration and budgeting in the judiciary, that the overall situation in the judiciary is corrected. You now have a great responsibility, and we believe that by taking that responsibility, the situation will be fine. Only by strengthening the position of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors can we, in the next period and with the support you receive, expect a greater step towards strengthening the independence of judges and prosecutors. Of course, never again do we have that disaster that the judiciary has experienced with a failed, amateur, poor judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2224	Thank you. The word is Gordana Comić, and be prepared Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2225	Thank you. There is no text without context, and I will address my five minutes in the debate on the first choice of judges on the basis of the VSS proposal and the deputy public prosecutors on the basis of a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors to the context in which this election is rejected, not only by the institutional framework, your powers and our obligations, when it comes to choice. These are the first candidates in the judiciary and the prosecution to be elected after the opening of Chapter 23. I regret to say no one noticed. So we're left to believe under A -- nobody knows what Chapter 23 is, B -- we don't care what's in Chapter 23. Neither, nor, under A, nor B, will, above all, be good for the people you've suggested today to be elected. When many in words expressed joy over the success, the indisputable, of Serbia, to open Chapter 23, I asked them – what are you looking forward to? And few who knew how to answer me. I think that you promoters know exactly what the job that is waiting for us all to negotiate on Chapter 23, and the people who are now being elected for the first time is also important to know what is waiting for us and in the amendments to the law, for which you are not in charge, but in practice. Just to give an example mentioned by counterpart Marko Djurisic. He won't be able to do it without responsibility to have a elected judge or deputy prosecutor now as worthy, as he says, and in six months he'll be arrested for a felony. Someone has to be responsible. Whoever does not know the answer to the question of what is meant by the opening of Chapter 23 means the responsibility and integrity of everyone in public functions. It's one of the hardest jobs in any society, so it's gonna be hard for us. I know as a second point of context that we have reached the opening of Chapter 23 how much integrity should have been a judge and prosecutor in some time. I know the terrible personal fates of the people of integrity in the judiciary and the prosecution who did not want to give in to their ethical norms. I know that judges and prosecutors have passed the first court of only one party, and then the court of several parties, and then the court of the executive authority that makes up several parties, to reach independent authorities that make up people from the judiciary and the prosecution who then propose to each other the choice of people for office. That's good on paper. Chapter 23 says – that should be done in practice. The state's major prosecutors and the VSS and the National Assembly should be partners in the business. That's the first point of context I'm talking about. The second point is the topic mentioned by MP Balsa Bozovic about the structure of candidates and candidates, and it must be noted that out of 60 and how many elections for judges who are elected for the first time are the vast majority of women. There is a theory that says - women only open access where there is no power and where there is no money. I would very much like to believe that this is not the case, because the judge must have the power and must bear with him because the power of the judge stems from the rule of law entrusted to him by the Constitution and the laws. I know the money, unfortunately, how much it is. I fall into those lines that have failed to increase the judiciary budget, to increase the positions for the Office for European Integration and the Coordination Body for Equality. I haven't been able to, but staying a minority in that way doesn't mean I'm wrong, and I'm going to try again. I would like to be denied that such a decision on women who are running and proposing is not a message – we do not think there should be power here. The third point of the context under which this choice takes place is banal misunderstandings about what we MPs actually serve. If, by A, someone I think told him the party, he has a vote to say, that this is served by a People's MP, he's in deep error and he's doing great harm and shame in Chapter 23, all of society and all of it. If anyone thinks that the MP has an obligation that if the opposition is against it, if the power is to be with, he is in deep error and in conflict with Chapter 23. If anyone thinks the post of MP ends by voting for or against the proposed candidates, he is in deep error. We have before us a dialogue on the criteria that you have used for candidates and candidates to be elected, and then our function and dialogue on what quality they achieve in the area for which you are in charge, and we are in charge of overseeing and working together to raise citizens' trust in justice. Chapter 23 may provide you with the rule of law and the rule of law, but justice will not be without the integrity of all of us who participate in public life, and the difference between justice and rule of law can sometimes be a huge gap. It's a common job to keep that gap as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2226	The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go, MP. You must sign in, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2227	President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, respected representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and these proposals for the election of judges who are first elected to court office have their basis in the exposition of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us to the People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 8 August 2016. Gentlemen Members of the People, I would like to remind the city and the world that the exhibition of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is the most tragic, most precise, most concrete, the biggest 260 pages, the short version and the best, if you do not understand, once again – and the best of all, Mr. Obradovic, the previous 73 exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, starting from the first Prime Minister of modern Serbia to Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today, counting on the previous exposés of President Vukic as of 27 April 2014. You, Mr. Beard, you'd better...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2228	Ambassador, I take care of it. Just talk, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2229	On page 32, the short version of the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, writes, quotes: "For a good business ambience, but for the safety of every citizen, Serbia needs an effective judicial system," the quote concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that without high-quality judges there is no effective judiciary or judicial system in general. That is why these proposals for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to judicial office have an exceptional importance for our judicial system, but also for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in general. What I'm trying to say is that this is about extraordinary candidates for judges, which is saying besides the rest, they're saying very good grades that the candidates have won, not, but earned, but earned, when studying at law school, which is one of the criteria for their election as judges. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you have read the biographies of all candidates, and in my account of 61 the best success in law school studies, Marina Rosic, with an average score of 9.81, and Nemanja Kovacevic, with an average score of 9.61, I think they deserve at least one round of applause. What is very important, which is that the High Council Commission of the Court of Justice has carried out a review of the applications submitted for the ad, determined their well-being and completeness and conducted a conversation with all the candidates, I particularly point out this, because we have not had that in the past, such a situation, I will say something later. The Commission of the High Council of the judiciary has also given an assessment of whether candidates meet the criteria and criteria for selecting judges, which I believe is extremely well done. In common with 61 candidates, they meet all the criteria and criteria for the assessment, namely expertise, skills, dignity for the choice of judges. Dear ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard from a representative of the party of the former regime of suspicion in the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary in the performance of our affairs. They were probably guided by their own experience, because their party took care not of the criteria, but of the party's membership as candidates. If the former regime had taken care of the criteria for selecting judges, as the High Council of the Judiciary is now leading, we would not be the worst in Europe during their rule. That was the assessment of European officials. Our judiciary was in a desperate state, ranging from unremembered scandals in the staging and exorcising 760 judges to unbalanced crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, our judiciary was rocking like a building prone to fall. Some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide. The former regime's gentlemen made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary by electing dead Judge Ljubis Ristic from Požega to be the judge, it is unrecorded in the history of the judiciary, although the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Ms. Nata Mesarevic, said that all candidates were checked and that 200 hours of time was spent on the check. I just don't know, ladies and gentlemen, how did she check on a dead judge? What excuse, gentlemen of the former regime, are you criticising the Commission today, justifying the fact that you didn't choose in one district court for a judge who was among the five best judges because her husband was a lawyer, and so on and so on. "Ibar Highway" as an investigative judge, and he also reached a first-degree verdict in the case of Curuvija and defended Goran Knezevic? How will you gentlemen from the party of the former regime, today criticise without arguments, explain the fact that you chose Judge Sonja Brkic to violate the Law on Judges, because she also served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the RIK? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Judges expressly prohibits it. She thus unlawfully took 2,673,000 dinars in RIK, she refused to pay that money back. To conclude, the former regime in the election of judges did not adhere to both expertise and training, and even less dignity, but party belongings. That is why the European Commission's 2010 report said, quote: "Reforms implemented by the government in Serbia", so the former "represents special concerns", a quote from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008-2012", page 96. "The European Commission continues," I quote, "The re-election process of judges", pay attention to the Members of the People's MPs "was non-transparent, risking this and the principle of independence", finished the quote. I quote: "The European Commission for Reforms, carried out by the government in Serbia, was like the worst possible thing," the quote concluded. In addition to the rest in this book, "Politics" was published in 7.7.2012. So much, gentlemen of the former regime, about your criteria and the choice of judges for judicial functions. With Mr Selakovic's arrival as minister of justice, the situation has changed fundamentally, although there are still many real problems, but the situation is being corrected from day to day. These are also the assessments of the most significant European officials, although we have heard today from the former regime's representatives, who unfortunately was also the prime minister, and even the Minister of the Federal Interior, and today is doing out of this National Assembly pressure on the prosecution and the judiciary in one case, it is unrecorded in the history of parliamentaryism. He's probably used to it in the last 20 years. The judiciary will continue to advance whose guarantee and new minister, Nela Kuburovic, is her expertise, her loyalty and her commitment to the business. Finally, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to vote for the election of judges who are first elected to court office. In particular, I invite you gentlemen from the former regime and the weak opposition to vote in favour of the election, because at least a little, even so, you will participate in the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, most of the MPs in this high house, and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would say plebiscitarianly, with the support of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2230	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic is not here. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, it was known to me that judges were elected, and later all that was related to their work was prescribed by the Constitution, law, internationally recognised contracts and other general acts. It seems to me that in the announcement and the choice of judges is still an act based on one exposé, so if it is no problem, I will wait until we adopt this exposure to be an integral part of Serbia's positive regulation nomenclature, so that we can continue to work. You take this as a suggestion. What I want to talk about is a little bit more, the best message since we entered Serbia's justice reform, and we are talking about that that happened after 2000, Professor Seselj today, I would say in an extremely good way, without insulting the dignity of the candidates for judges and public prosecutors, and warning of what should be the motto of all future judges and public prosecutors. What exactly is that? That's what a lot of people may not have understood, when he read the average rating for judges and prosecutors. What's this about? If there are some qualified people in Serbia, quite enough, that's graduate lawyers, I would say graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam. Then the Commission's selection of judges under the High Council made business easier. We may have some profiles in Serbia, but surely we can provide a good choice, not a good one, but the best choice of judges and public prosecutors. Mr. Tomic, you saw that your presentation on the Committee on Justice and the presentation of Professor Seselj was completely in agreement when you said it was not a guarantee that a certain student who graduated from the 10 would also be a good judge. I agree with that, of course not. They can be different spheres of interest for graduate lawyers. That is exactly what we have talked about and these messages, i.e. reading the average candidates who should be elected judges, have a positive impact on those students who have just enrolled in law school, who want to be involved in the work of the judiciary in their careers. This is a very important function. Important because once a judge has been elected, not counting what we are doing today, means the first time a judge is elected, he is done for three years, and later the High Council of the Judiciary is doing the job, so if someone wants to be elected as judge, he will try to make sure that both in the process of education and the acquisition of legal knowledge that enables him to be a good judge, to be responsible judge, this way will affect. Maybe some criteria, it's a little awkward now to accept the universal rule, but maybe the average score below eight shouldn't be considered, even though there are different conditions for the score and the choice of judges. There's a lot more to be considered about. I was a witness here in this assembly when, truth be told, Professor Atlagic did not invent the case, the elected judge who had already been retired. And we could have a similar situation here, because the competition for the judge's reception, one number, since there were 1225 applications in total, was called 16 months ago. Maybe someone will say – well, we had elections, so establishing the Assembly and everything, but it could have ended in 2015. In the first half of 2015, a competition was launched for selecting a number of judges, and today October 6th, the day after October 5th, when we are discussing it and probably today or tomorrow will be decided. Then there are possible situations here that no one wants to happen. We from the SRS want, although the process of this reform started in 2000, it seems to me that what was happening in 2009 and 2010, was the worst version of reform, as in 2001 when the judges were elected, when it seemed to me that the judiciary in Serbia was fundamentally changing, so we had the situation that the lawyers from the agricultural cooperatives were elected on the same day as the judge and the president of the court. Of course, we don't disrespect lawyers who work in cooperatives, but there's just some procedure that's not common, it's not normal. Especially if we know that judges are given great authority and that they have the right and the ability to decide even on the freedom of citizens, which is one of the greatest rights of each individual. That's why we have to open what our people would say, four eyes when making these and decisions like this. We would never want to happen again if the judge said – we got a decision. And we got the decision and said the judge, who was, even the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. That's inadmissible. I hope that something like this will never happen again and can't happen. The process of choosing these judges lasted long, 91 working days, as Mr Tomic said. Now, whether the choice is done best or not, that's another question. So we have a chance to choose the best judges, but I'm not sure that's exactly how it's done this time. It's bad here, and if we have one or two judges who aren't worthy, whether they're not professional, or any other factor that doesn't recommend them for those high functions. The truth is, there's been a major misdemeanor in the biography of the election of deputies and prosecutors. I happen to know someone myself. Don't make this a problem for you now, so don't vote for those people, but of course, I won't even say my name. I just happen to know, and I know they had a high average. It's not a failure of a candidate for prosecutors, it's a failure by the State's Chief Prosecutor, or, if there are such cases, a failure by the High Council of the Judiciary. I hope this time you will choose the best of those offered, but I think we should do a lot more work on this problem. We have courts and judges who deserve great attention. Sometimes when we're critical of courts, that doesn't mean that we're completely in the wrong of the judiciary. On the contrary, we have extremely good judges, professional judges, as well as prosecutors, but there is plenty of room and need to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2232	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2233	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the distinguished representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, immediately at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I support proposals that are on the agenda today. So, I support all candidates who are proposed today for judges, who are first elected to judge office, as well as candidates for deputy public prosecutor, and I have no doubt at all about biography, not your choice, not your system of criteria, not your assessment system. I am convinced that today we will choose good candidates for these functions, despite the fact that representatives of some parties, by the wave of former regime parties, have had some objections today. If you ask me, it was a completely baseless grudge. But we had the opportunity to hear again, or see again some selective approach to it. So they keep forgetting in their criticism that they look back on one period, one very important period, the 2009 period, 2010, when they conducted the re-election of judges, as they say – judicial reform. I'll remind you that the Venice Commission has assessed this judicial reform as catastrophic. I know the situation in the judiciary isn't great, maybe it's not the best thing right now, but given what we inherited, given what devasted justice system we inherited, I think we're on track to create an effective and good justice system and restore citizens' trust in the judiciary. I will remind you again, the Venice Commission found that judicial reform was disastrous in 2009. Again, I have to ask the question -- when we were already in the metrics, were the criteria good, was the evaluation system good, why didn't we think of an earlier period when it was these criteria and these and those, but while the government in the country was doing one other party that was divided into several factions today, and then there was one party and it was leading, that was doing all the power in this country? In front of me, I have a document that we've read several times, but it wouldn't be bad for the citizens of Serbia to remember what it looked like in their time. In front of me is a document signed by the chairman of the municipal board of one party, guess, I believe you all assume which party it is, therefore, it is DS, so the chairman of the municipal board DS Slavoljub Mitov, but also the president of the Assembly of the municipality then Vlasotince Srdjan Susulic signed a document where candidates for judges and prosecutors were characterised and evaluated. Those who are characterized in this document as tough enemies of DS, you assume they are not selected, those who are characterized as friends, as members, as sympathisers, secure DS voters, they are, of course, re-elected, so it looked like this. I'm not going to name names now, but one of the candidates, the president of the court since 2000, broke between the DSS and the DSS, overcame the current interest, and is considered DSS. In principle, fair, but non-communicative and uncontainable, deserves a chance. That was one of the recommendations and main reasons why someone was elected judge or not. Then the next candidate, says – a sympathiser, a member of the DS, honest, valuable, on the other hand unsuspecting, ten years back provides all legal assistance to DS. Probably the best in court. Ambitious, deserves to progress. Interested in an appeal judge in Nis. Indisputable. He says of the next candidate: withdrawn, peaceful, valuable, possibly honest, experienced, party sympathiser, uninterested in politics, former Socialists, co-operated without discussion, undeniable. Then he goes next, says - calm, just, withdrawn, honest, apolitical. The only flaw - husband of former JUL president. Now an apolitical, undeniable judicial quality. Then there's, uh, this is good. He says -- he's the candidate and he's the executive judge, but he's got no authority. He says he's honest, but he's not used for alcohol, and he's hoping to retire himself. So the recommendations were also made for public prosecutors in Vlasotanc. So the deputy district attorney was told that since the establishment, the party's sympathiser, the sure vote, the fair, the unsumptive, the under-supervised and the shadow of the prosecutor. Useable, indisputable for Deputy Attorney General in Vlasotanc. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a picture and opportunity of what the situation in the judiciary was and what condition we inherited in the judiciary. This is a classic example of how one party, while in power in the country, conducted a re-election of judges, or what they say is judicial reform. Membership in the political party, then the ruling DS, was everything in the world. The Serbian Progressive Party, with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, is making daily efforts. This job is not easy compared to what you left us, the overall state of society, I think, that Serbia becomes a modern and orderly European country. With today's proposal for decisions, which I hope we will adopt today, or tomorrow in the voting day, we are making an additional effort, we are taking steps to make Serbia this, to restore the trust of the people and the citizens of Serbia in the judicial system, to make the judiciary independent and to raise the level of quality of work in Serbia. I call on you to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2234	Thank you. The word has Maja Vidinović, and be prepared by Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2235	Dear Presidents, the respected representatives of the State Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, welcome to parliament. Today we have an extremely important topic on the agenda that we should talk about, and today we are actually talking about the stability of society, the issue of justice, the rule of law, the legal certainty, which should be of particular interest to all of us, as responsible people. The question of the sense of availability of justice that burdens every citizen and citizen of ours may be the most important question we should talk about. And who, if not Parliament, is the place to talk about it? The choice of judges and prosecutors, in that sense, is a subject that responsible people have to talk about in a broader context than the biographies that we have had today to listen to, which are ahead of us and with a simple insight into them, we can inform ourselves. A broader context than that deserves our attention, and I think that's the topic that should be discussed today. And that context that burdens our society is, unfortunately, alarming. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the profession says, these are the reports that were discussed on our Justice Committee in the previous term and in the previous years. It is, in the end, also a report on the progress of the European Commission for 2015, where they, in particular, analyse chapters 23 and 24, which is, I remind you, as my colleague Gordana Komic signaled, the most important process in front of all of us, is the issue of justice, human rights, freedom and security. Those in the progress report say that a worryingly low assessment has been given as regards the area of justice, with three things they have apostrophyd, which I believe are the context we should talk about today, when we talk about candidates for the election of judges and for public prosecutors. Therefore, they say, I quote, that the independence of judges and public prosecutors is not ensured in practice because there is a space for political influence on the recruitment and selection of judges and public prosecutors, that the judiciary is slow, that we are all witnesses and we know, and that the number of pending cases is significant, and that is the most important thing when we have those assessments of citizens about the availability of justice and something that burdens them the most, and that frequent changes in legislation and insufficient training make the legal environment uncertain. Furthermore, a report on the progress of the European Commission says that officials continue to comment publicly on the trials and investigations undermining and reducing the independence of the judiciary, although laws and other regulations provide for a case-by-case allocation, a random distribution of the case is not carried out. The exceptions to that rule are always common, and this is a particular problem facing the public prosecutor's office. More important than the concerns of the European Commission, which is decadent in this report, is the concern that citizens feel, the concern I am sure you feel, as representatives of the prosecution and the judiciary. When we talk about inadmissible slow procedures, these are the problems you gentlemen from the D.A.'s office know best. I'll just look back on a few things. Since the introduction of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we have a prosecutor's investigation, we have a fact that today the prosecutor has one working day in his week of work for which the investigating judge has had five working days. As a result, citizens suffer, as a result all processes and all procedures last longer. We have the fact that in the prosecutions we have a lack of dactylographs and scribes, the problem is that it also further slows the process, which again has the effect that citizens suffer. We have a shortage of dactylographers and scribes, suffering the justice of the citizens, that case of theirs, the only justice for them, the only fight they have. And why do we have a shortage? Because we have a ban on employment, which unfortunately does not apply, which we witness every day. My colleagues talked about the history of your struggle for independence, for independence, for the preservation of your profession, and on that path of that struggle you have all our support, from being chosen by one party, so one party, so one branch of government, that is now your fight, absolute support you have in it. The challenges you face in this process are great, and now it is up to you to keep these processes indisputable. With this, the least to say, when we talk about the prosecution's election, the excessive deputy public prosecutors are causing the uneasy fact that the election process was not transparent after all. The fact that candidates who have not passed do not have a public ranking, that they do not have information about their final score, that they do not have a ranking list, that they do not have the ability to inform themselves, or have received an explanation that they have not passed, nor is there a possibility that they may object to the procedure and the rank list that has been brought in. I believe these are the things that burden this process. These are the things that cause serious doubt, which I'm sure is not in your interest, but as a responsible MP, they make it impossible for me to support these people independently of your résumés, I'm simply a process of choice causing doubt that makes it impossible to support such a thing. Today we were in discussion and yesterday, when authorised representatives spoke we had an incredible misunderstanding of our role, and more important than our role, I am talking about our obligation, as MPs and as responsible people. I don't need to remind you of your colleagues and colleagues in the Constitution, it is easy to be available to you and it clearly states that the prosecution is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, takes legal action and more important than that, that both prosecutors and deputy prosecutors for their work and for the work of the prosecution respond directly to the higher and corresponds to the National Assembly. That this is an absolute space for dialogue to discuss all the problems that the judiciary and the judiciary and the prosecution face today. When we talk about a few problems, I'm just going to put space and my colleagues to look at the three most significant people who don't just burden you, who are burdening our country, who are burdening the rule of law, who are burdening every citizen and citizen, and these are obsolescence problems. A problem that unfortunately several years more than an example, that leaks information from the investigation and detention. These are the data mentioned not only on the report on the progress of the European Commission, we are all witnesses. It's a violation of the presumption of innocence which also belongs to what we should talk about today. When we talk about the leak of personality data and the violation of presupply of innocence, which unfortunately became a practice, and we are talking about a few problems that we as a society face. The first of these problems is that certain individuals are found guilty before the proceedings begin. That this is the most brutal and brutal violation of the presumption of innocence, that on the other hand, the media link against which a particular person, led by a media hack, is also a kind of pressure on both the prosecution and the court. In such an atmosphere of an organized company, a brutal violation of the assumption of innocence, very little space remains for an independent procedure. When we talk about leaks of information from the investigation and custody, it's something the state, unfortunately, and the prosecution hasn't responded to in years. As a rule, information from detention and investigation appears, as a rule, in the same media, people are found guilty before the proceedings are completed. When there's a possible judicial verdict, a liberating thing like that, there's no space to see. What, unfortunately, is the symbol of the coup against the rule of law and the rule of law is the scandal that took place on the election night of April 24th this year, when under the auspices of the night and an organized group of phantom bandits brought down part of Belgrade's centre. Much more Arlamantic than that, that we have inadmissible, and I know that you know that and that you share that opinion, not with me, but with all the citizens of this country, it's unacceptable to keep the state quiet for six months, it's unacceptable to keep the prosecution quiet about what happened. And, is it possible that we don't have the answer to someone destroying a part of the city in the middle of the night, that they don't have the responsibility, that no one responds to calls from citizens who call the police, that no one responds to calls and help. This inadmissible silence of the state, the message citizens receive when because of such a scandal, which is actually a peeled blow to the rule of law, there is no answer, that an ordinary citizen can feel protected and what he can expect when such a charred example does not get an answer. To bring an end to the elected prosecutor's judges for whom, due to suspicion of proceedings and because of all this I've been saying, I can't vote personally, but regardless of the complete certainty that they will be elected, I wish them all good luck in their work. I want them to be guardians of justice, constitutional order, to be brave, to be persistent in defending the independence of their institutions and to be persistent in the chosen independence of their institutions and to be persistent in the chosen rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2236	Thank you. I hope the presunction of innocence applies to everyone in the state. Thank you. We agreed. Dear Members of the People, according to Article 27, and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m., as I announced yesterday. The word has Aleksandar Martinovic, and let Jasmina Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group, as well as the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government to vote for all candidates who are proposed for deputies, i.e. for the deputy public prosecutor and all candidates who are proposed by the High Council of Judges for the first time in office, and because of the citizens of Serbia who may be following this transfer, I would also like to say that we will also vote, of course, for all other proposals that are on the agenda today, which have not yet been spoken, and this is the motion for changes in the working bodies of the National Assembly of Serbia. It is usually the public's impression that institutions, such as the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's major prosecutors, are just extended hands of the government or the largest political party. I want to say that it is simply not true and as the best proof of that is, and here I am, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, going to ask two questions and expect to get answers to these questions today. One question was addressed to representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors. I would like to know why the State's Major Prosecutors proposed Mr. Lazar Lazovic, Judge Assistant Public Prosecutor for the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and not some other candidates in the line of prosecutor's assistants who had a better grade in the examination of expertise and training? I would also like to ask, the representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, when will the rule on criteria and criteria for the selection of judges be passed, given the fact that the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on Judges in December of last year, that these amendments to the law provide for the obligation to examine candidates and those provisions have been applied since 1 September 2016, and the Regulation has not yet been adopted? I expect the representatives of the D.A.'s State Council and the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary to answer these two very serious questions. Today, there have been many topics that are not directly related to the choice of deputy public prosecutor and the choice of judges themselves, and in some ways it is understandable and logical. Is there a world of justice, when I tell the judiciary, then I think of courts and public prosecutors, who are just everyone's will and whether there is an ideal justice system anywhere. Of course it doesn't exist. We strive to make our judicial system better than it is today, especially better than it was a few years ago. As far as SNS is concerned, we will support all proposals, and I know they are preparing, to prepare a large number of laws in the area above all criminal rights that will aim to strengthen the fight against crime and corruption in all areas of social life. What's important to say is that there are many cases from our social reality that haven't gotten their court epilogue. Some who led this country were presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, were acting as federal interior minister, some others who implemented the reform of the judiciary in 2008, 2009 and 2010, some who were practically masters of life and death by 2012, in Serbia today honor the SNS, the Ministry of Justice, but above all the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, why some cases are not solved, why some cases have become obsolete. From whom the question is asked, it is clear what the intention of those who ask these questions is. In essence, both DS and all its political derivatives don't care about both Savamala and Kosmajec and Miskovic, and for privatisations and vineyards, and I don't know what either, their political target is Aleksandar Vukic, and Serbian citizens should know that. Half the people who talk about Savamali, I doubt they've ever been there. Those who mourn fate, they say, owners, but illegal objects that have been destroyed in that part of Belgrade, have been paid from abroad. Even their mentors admitted it. So, all those who organise protests such as "yellow ducks", "we don't strangle Belgrade", they get money from abroad. And besides that money, you can't see more than 200 or 300 people at these gatherings. And then Prime Minister Vukic, who you are constantly accusing of this famous Savamala, said nicely - I will resign myself if I can't raise more people in one local community than you do in downtown Belgrade, in alleged protests over the destruction of buildings on Herzegovica Street. You don't care if we have a better judiciary. You don't care if the citizens live safer. It's not your concern that we have less crime in Serbia. Your concern is how to hit the Prime Minister as hard as you can. But what I don't understand is how you can't see that it's causing you a counterproduct. The more you hit Alexander Vukic, the more valuable the people of Alexander Vukic, and the more you talk about Samamal, the allegedly illegal destruction, the more you accuse Alexander Vukic, the more popular his popularity in the people is growing. Here, I ask you, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, don't organise protests like "yellow ducks" once every three months. You do it every day because it's in our best interests. The more you attack Alexander Vukic, the more people love him. So, every day protest and justify, after all, the money you receive from abroad to organise protests in downtown Belgrade, where, by the way, you cannot collect more than 200 or 300 people. As for the fight against organised crime, at a time when this state was ruled by the DS, you couldn't even imagine that someone could initiate proceedings against Miroslav Miskovic, such as people like Kosmajac. So, not that the proceedings didn't start, you couldn't think that anyone could touch those people at all. We showed strength, we showed that no one is stronger than the state. Is anyone with that verdict satisfied? It's another topic, but the fact is that the fight against organised crime, against the crime that has cost us our country, has begun and is being led by full steam. I wish that fight had been fought a long time ago. Serbia today would not have as many economic problems as there are, and the government of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would not be in a position to bring heavy and unpopular measures to which we must address the economic problems we inherited in 2012. Yesterday, some boasted about the October 5th liquids. Perhaps the citizens of Serbia would like their court epilogue to get and appear like the burning of this building, which was the building of the Federal Assembly on October 5th, today is the building of the National Assembly, to get its court epilogue and who was breaking in at night with the boys and armed with automatic rifles in the Federal Customs Administration, to the NBS, to get his court epilogue to show that it is possible that in the night between 5 and 6 October 2000, the building of the Belgrade City of Belgrade Assembly would turn into a warehouse of long tubes, so that we can see who under what circumstances carried out not 24 but 524 robbery privatisations, who, for example, is. in Serbia, he sold sugars at three euros each. Easy, Keno, beer's coming in later. Who was it that could plant vineyards in November and get subsidies like he planted them in April? There is, therefore, much that Serbian citizens would like to know, and what has not been obtained by today's court epilogue. (Radoslav Milojičić, from town: President, topic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2238	Yes, it is. The story of the failure of the judicial system at the time of the rule of the political party you belong to, which your colleagues spoke of, just in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2239	Since there were words here that some MPs would like to know something from the representatives of the judicial institutions, from the prosecution, from the courts, here, I guess I have the right as a MP to ask what's going on with these cases I've been talking about. I'd like to get my court epilogue and talk about who robbed the Vojvodina Development Bank, to get his court epilogue and a phenomenon like robbing the AP Vojvodina Development Fund and the Capital Investment Fund, and how it's possible to, for example. 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, you have asphalting in Vojvodina at night, in winter time, when no one lives is paved, without public procurement, when these jobs are paid, and never done, and then the Vojvodina budget is damaged by who knows how many million euros. I'd like my court epilogue to get a phenomenon like building a home for the housing of children distracted by the development in New Vienna, so-called. Hetherland Castle. It's a castle by name only. On the spot, it is a ruins, which is absolutely not similar not to house children distracted in development, but pigeons and sparrows. Yesterday, one of the former regime's MPs allegedly gave us the bill that we need to answer why this castle in New Vienna was not done for children distracted by development. I just want to remind him that the deadline for the completion of the work was 2012, when DS was sovereignly ruling the AP Vojvodina and she financed the project. So, there are many phenomena in Serbia that have not received a court epilogue, and here are the SNS MPs, and I believe the vast majority of Serbian citizens would like to get their court epilogue and see who robbed Serbia, who robbed Vojvodina for 12 years without ever answering for it. Yesterday, it was said that the state allegedly robbed local self-government because, my God, the municipalities will no longer have 80% of the income tax, but 74%, and the cities 77%. He'd like his court epilogue to have a phenomenon, like that. Robbing India, to get its court epilogue and appearances such as robbing Kragujevac, such as robbing New Sad, such as robbing Nis. Just to remind you, the town of Nis was in one period of its history led by a man whose greatest political achievement was what he told the citizens of Nis – all bills for electricity in barrels, burn those accounts in a barrel, and so fight the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, and when he came to power, he then increased the price of electricity 600 times and forgot how he burned electricity bills in a barrel in Nis. For example, I'd like to, I'm sorry that, I apologize to you, Madam President, I'll do it now on my cell phone, I know it's not polite, but I have no other way of printing it. Yesterday, my colleague Jesic referred me to some cattle fair where I should roar and torture and I don't mind, I'll do it if I have to, but here, black on white. So, from the Agency for Business Registers, you don't think I got this either, I don't know of any secret service – "Milk Republic" D.O.O.O. Novi Sad, active business company, limited liability company, headquarters – Novi Sad, Temerinska 50, date of establishment – 14 September 2015, PIB and that, one of the co-owners, shared by 45%, Goran Ješić. Milorad Mircic, from the scene: Who was stealing? Now, who was stealing, Mr. Mircic? He stole someone who supplied KC Vojvodina with dairy products, without having previously conducted a public procurement procedure and then KC Vojvodina, until a few months ago, until we changed power in Vojvodina, at three, four, five times higher prices for patients, for people who are being treated in KC Vojvodina's milk, yogurt, cheese, etc., this company whose co-owner is Mr. Goran Jesic, who sends me to the Novosad Fair to roar and torture, and I will do it, but I will never do such things. I'd like to, for example. He liked to have this in his court epilogue. Let's see how it's possible that someone who was an absolute anonymous by the year 2000 has suddenly had a penthouse in Vienna, a villa on Tatar Hill and a company that until a few months ago, without a tender, supplied KC to Vojvodina's dairy products. As for the discussion of some other colleagues, I understand that they are not in progress with laws in force in the Republic of Serbia, but simply because of Serbian citizens, I want to say that the judicial system in Serbia has changed. Violent courts are part of the court's authority, and that's defined by the Court's Law, and I think that's quite logical. Infringements are delinquents, someone for delinquents has to answer, and some delinquents have to be tried. Who else can do this than the courts. So misdemeanor courts are part of the judicial authority. I'm saying this so there wouldn't be any dilemma about it. Finally, when it comes to the candidates themselves, I will not mention anyone's name. The average of the study is important, but not the only criteria for selecting someone as a deputy public prosecutor or for selecting judges. That's what I'm saying as someone who's had a high average at the Law School in Novi Sad. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to say that it is only one of the criteria. One of the criteria that I hope the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors had in mind when proposing these candidates. In addition to this criterion, there are other criteria. Milorad Mircic, from the post: Which one? Which one, Mr. Mircic? You should have made a little headway on your way to the National Assembly session. The High Council of the Court spoke with all candidates for judges who applied for the competition and asked for an opinion from the courts in which these candidates worked, or from other bodies in which they worked before they applied for a judicial office. Therefore, the High Council of the Judiciary was managed in advance by defined criteria and criteria. I hope that we will choose the best possible candidates that have been proposed by the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, and practice will show whether these people are able to do their job or not. Don't forget, these people that we, probably tomorrow, choose to serve as judges are elected for a period of three years. It's some kind of trial work, they'll show in those three years whether they're capable of being judges or not. It's just another little dyspression to do, and yet it's because of the citizens who are monitoring this transmission. One of the fellow MPs said that people studied for 28, 24, 25 years. These are the years in which they completed their studies. So it's not the length of study, it's the years of life when they got a college degree. It would be ideal for everyone to finish college in due time, but on the other hand they don't all go to college when they're 18 and 19 and not everyone's living circumstances are equal. I went to college when I was 18, and I know some of my colleagues who signed him up at 22. The guy who got into college when he was 22 can't finish it at 23. He's got to finish it a little later. Someone got a job after he graduated high school. Someone started a family. There are such candidates. I don't want to mention names, it's not polite. Someone's got a kid. It's all a bit of a prolongation for the end of the study, but it's just not about any candidate studying for 28 years. It's also physically impossible, but it's years of life when people get their college degree. Of course, gentlemen, you from the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary are now at your conscience that you have offered us the best possible candidates. As a responsible political party, as a party that is deeply aware that the vacant seats in our prosecutions and courts must be filled in to avoid the paralysis of the judicial system, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for all proposed candidates in the best belief that we are voting for those who are truly the best, and once again I ask you, from the State Council of Prosecutors and Mr Tomic of the High Council of Justice, if we can get answers to these two questions I have asked, because I think these are issues that interest both people working in public prosecutors and people working in courts. I thank you again. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2240	The word is made by the MP Milos Boskovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Goran Ćirić, from the place: DS is mentioned. Everything's fine. Only the Rules of Procedure have priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2241	I'd just like to point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The biggest part of this speaker's speech was related to some unexplained court proceedings, to some factories, etc., but it's not really a topic right now. It would be good to stick to the subject out of respect for the citizens who are following this, to be more effective in respecting the people who came here as guests, who have come out of their jobs and devoted time to, so just to respect and to be more effective and to stick to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2242	Is that true of Mr Milojic and Maja Vidinovic's speech as well? You didn't call back then, and they were talking about procedures... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I did not answer today. ) All right, then Maja Vidinović, Gordana Komic. Don't protest if I'm communicating with an MP. Looks like some MPs are allowed to communicate with me, and some are not allowed to. Is that true of their discussions or just one discussion? Do you just mind Alexander Martinovic and his discussion? I'm asking to define the MPs whether they vote one way or the other or any mention of any case... (Milos Boskovic, from the post: General for all. Turning off the subject. So, generally for all these discussions that we had today. Shall we vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Don't complain. It is important to clarify whether this applies only to one discussion or to all discussions today and to the mention of any court proceedings. Thank you very much, you have helped me very much, and I think to the citizens of Serbia who are watching the broadcast. The word has Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2243	For almost 25 minutes, we listened to an offer for the future for the citizens of Serbia. We agreed in this debate to discuss an important issue, important for the rule of law, for security in the Republic of Serbia, for all citizens of Serbia, and the only answer we could hear now in this 23-minute period of argument and by Gordana Komic, Maja Vidinovic and Balša Bozovic, is that we mark people as domestic traitors, mercenaries, if they think differently, have a different view than the ruling coalition. Of course, we've been familiar with that format since the '90s, about foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors. It was also mentioned on October 5th, and it was called for the outcomes of some court proceedings, and we agree on the need to raise efficiency and end some processes as we wish to end the processes exactly which were initiated by October 5th, which was mentioned here, where Serbian citizens defended the results of the elections. So it wasn't a revolution, but people were ready to defend the election will of citizens, and I think it's very important to answer all these questions right now. Mr. Balša Bozovic mentioned the topic, obviously, that is constantly breaking the spear, but it is important to give answers to it, Savamala. The simple question is, how do the president's knowledge come from, and how does he know that the culprits are right at the top of the city's government in Belgrade? So that's a statement they've been calling for and asking and a clear question to the prime minister where his knowledge came from. And it's important that the public of Serbia, too, so we here in the Assembly find out... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2244	Thanks, it's been a while. Thank you. Replica? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2245	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising Article 107 and 108. We've been listening to 20 minutes of exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2246	What did I hurt the Rules of Procedure, not what did you listen to?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2247	In that you did not warn MP Martinovic, because with 20 minutes of insult, the DS violated the Rules of Procedure and you were obliged to warn him. In doing so, each one of his spoken words is false. We don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2248	How do we know that? We don't know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2249	We don't want to deal with it, because if we were dealing with it, then what about WinWin, what about Technology, what about wage cuts and pensions? Mr. Martinovic, since you're talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2250	Ambassador, you must speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2251	Excuse me. Since the previous speaker spoke of crime and corruption, the most convincing victory of the SNS has won in prisons, which speaks of who has a relationship with those who have violated the law. After all, five years of SNS is the master of life and death, so why don't you arrest all those people if they've done something wrong, which you've been calling here for five years and we don't have any court epilogues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2252	MP, MP, thank you. Let me just say about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't react even when the MPs from your parliamentary group here made accusations against the president of the SNS. You don't remember. It's a very selective memory for you, this morning from 10 to 13 o'clock, to 12 and 30 o'clock. If you do not allow SNS deputies to say what they want and what voters and citizens of Serbia who voted for the SNS and the list "Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins" to find out, then it does not speak about my way of holding a session but about you. So I didn't interrupt either. I let you speak your insinuations. Of course, MP Aleksandr Martinovic is also allowed to ask the judicial authorities to answer some questions that are of interest to Serbian citizens. So I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure with anything. The only thing I'm sharing with the MPs is that they don't talk about anything today, which is not my tendency. So, who is interested in the actions that you have brought and which you are interested in getting some judicial answers, also interests SNS voters and Serbian citizens and beyond for what Aleksandar Martinovic said. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 107. It's not true that the SNS won the biggest victory in prisons. We won the biggest victory in the White Palanca a few weeks ago when we won 70% of the vote, which your party did not participate in. As far as thieves are concerned, it's true, Mr. Milojic, you've been stealing so much...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2254	Ambassador, speak to me and what I have done wrong now. I didn't say anything about prisons.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2255	So they stole a lot. This is true and not all thieves are arrested, but we will make sure that all thieves are really arrested and that all those who are economically, financially and in any other way have ruined Serbia by 12 years, and Vojvodina for 16 years and cities such as Novi Sad, Belgrade, Vrab, Indija, Kragujevac, Nis and all other places in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2256	Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2257	I'm done. Speaking of demolitions, may the DS gentlemen tell me – where are the grandfathers of the court epilogue of the destruction of the Roma settlement in Novobegrad bloc 67 at the time of the DS-run Belgrade City?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2258	MP, article 107... Two, this was a replica. I have to take two minutes from your MP group from the total time. This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. ) The replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot The sentence is for that. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: So you said this was a replica.]] I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure again. So what, I take two minutes away from you, and you've got a lot less, so it's my fault again. We have to when the Rules of Procedure is broken to stop. I stopped at SNS. I can't play. Thank you. The next speaker is Jasmina Nikolic, then Petar Jojic. Jasmina Nikolic is not in the O.R. Then Petar Jojic and Dusan Petrovic. Does Petar Jojic want to talk? Ambassador, in order for you to be considered, you must be in the O.R., which means inserting your card.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2259	In connection with the election of judges and prosecutors for three years, much has been said in the past few years about judicial reform, including the public prosecutor's institution. How important it is for public prosecutors and judges to be chosen by professional people, I will set an example of how this is done in some prosecutors. In one of the prosecutions, 535 indictments and indictments were filed from 2010 to 2015, in order for the courts to drop the charges and dismiss them as unfounded. What are the consequences? These days there were words about the RS budget, about local self-government, about the surplus, about the budget deficit. For this prosecution, it is one more prosecution which has two basic courts within its prosecutor's office, the consequences have occurred in a material sense. The Republic of Serbia's budget paid 90 million on behalf of court costs, which caused unfounded charges, as courts had to release innocent citizens who were, in any case, released on the basis of evidence. When it comes to the prosecutor's office, what about the election of 30 prosecutors, until when will the temporary public prosecutor's office be in 30 prosecutors, six of whom are in senior and 24 in primary courts? Why is it costing to send prosecutors from Cačka to Obrenovac or Zaječar to Vršac and not to list from which seat, from which district and from which area should it cross hundreds of kilometers? What's the consequence? The result is the following – you have to provide drivers, you have to provide cars, you have to provide drivers with salaries, you have to pay them contributions, you have to pay their daily fees, you have to pay out of the gas budget, you have to settle all costs that are caused needlessly, because in the seats of the primary and senior courts there are staff that can perform the prosecutor's or deputy prosecutor's safety, both in the primary and the senior prosecutor's offices. So I think this needs to be fixed and there's no need to be sent from one district, or senior prosecutor's seat to another and thus to save money. Here, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, the finance minister, the minister of justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor – how many prosecutors from one district in another district, from one seat to another office of the prosecution were engaged? What are the costs, so we can see, because a few billion dinars can be settled from the budget? When it comes to selecting legal holders, is there nepotism? Which frames are chosen? Whose sons and daughters are they choosing? Are there cases like this or not? Is there a list of candidates to be appointed and elected for the office of the prosecution? The recent minister of justice said at a consultation at Zlatibor on 18 September 2015 – the problem in the judiciary is ignorance. Is that true? Can anyone deny it? What are we going to do when in some courts, they've even gone to other institutions, I'm not going to name them, I'm not going to call them, I'm going to have 80 percent suspended or I'm changing them, and that's the one that's left to be a judge? He can't be a judge. The one who's been denied so many and so many charges can't be a prosecutor. He is a vermin for the state, a pest for the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. Is there corruption in the judiciary? I won't mention it, but I'd like to point out that 34 criminal charges or private charges have been filed in one of the prosecution's seats against one of the lawyers. None of them have been processed. Even the prosecutor said they were all out of date before they arrived at the public prosecutor's office. Here, I'm looking for copies of criminal charges where citizens filed criminal charges with a reception seal, a fall to see if that's the case. So, ladies and gentlemen, why has the Supervisory Board been lifted in the Supreme Cassation Court? There is independence of the judge, and let there be, but he can't be independent of breaking the law. The Supervisory Board should control the law and enforce the law without interfering in its decisions, it is an independent judiciary. Who canceled it? Which government abolished, what regime? The previous regime abolished this supervisory board and this institution which has great importance for the monitoring of the work of legality by judicial officials. What about donations and budget funds and donations from abroad for judicial reform? How many million euros have arrived? Who took the money in the name of judicial reform and legislative reform? Who formed the task force, who are the participants in the task force? How much did someone take the money and not see the law applied in practice, nor was it adopted in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2260	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not here. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. You have six minutes and ten seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2261	The judiciary in Serbia has never been independent, it has never been independent. This has been particularly expressed in recent years, and it seems best to me that the debates of the former and current regimes, where they accuse one another, I mean the advances and Democrats, who is responsible for the poor situation in the judiciary. Here, I'll settle out, they're right about each other. Neither was the reform of Snezana Malovic, nor was it worth reforming Nikola Selakovic's reform, nor would this already announced reform reform reform of Nela Kuburovic be good under these circumstances. So, the problem that we had in that previous regime and that we have, and now, when it comes to the judiciary, above all, is in the main people, the presidents of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Attorney General, and as long as we don't have completely independent, or independent and independent people, we won't have results, nor will we have a good situation in this area. That's why we've been looking on the board, and here we are right now at the National Assembly to be President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Attorney General, to talk to them for a little while, we have something to ask them. As we once asked Nata Mesarevic who sent her the verdict, remember when she issued the verdict for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, so she said - we got the verdict, it remains permanent for her to remember, but now we have the President of the Supreme Cassation Court of Mr Dragomir Milojevic, who we also remember by something characteristic. In 2009, he was not re-elected in that re-election of Malovicka's reform, he was among those about 1,000 judges who complained to the Constitutional Court, and he was among those 650 judges that Aleksandar Vukic said had moved to the SNS. Was, was, Mr. Arsic, don't frown, was in the picture next to Cvian. So, question, Mr. Tomic, I told you on the board to ask Mr. Milojevic, so you'll tell me if you asked him if he was a member of the SNS? I also told you to ask Zagorka Dolovac, to you from the State Council of Prosecutors, and we had a question for her - why and in which drawer is the criminal report issued by Zoran Krasic, which was filed by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime against Tomislav Nikolic and the team of professors who gave him the degree even though he did not pass any exams? All evidence is included with the application. In which drawer is the criminal application we filed, also signed by Zoran Krasic, against all leaders of the former and current regime, from Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Mirko Cvetkovic to Ivica Dacic, Aleksandr Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, all who participated in the preparation or finally signing of the Brussels Agreements? Where is and what about the criminal report we filed against Neboja Stefanovic for his responsibility as minister of failures that took place in the ministry that is responsible, which is his ministry, during those tragic floods in Serbia? So as long as we don't have answers to these questions, we can't talk about independent and independent justice. We can't talk about a good situation in the judiciary, Mr. Tomic, as long as we have disputes that are otherwise of an emergency character, like working disputes, like mobbing disputes, like a dispute to determine alimony, lasts for five, six, seven, eight years, so the child becomes full-time before he gets alimony from the parents he doesn't live with. There are a lot of gaps and we're wondering if something will solve the choices of these new people we're setting up today? Do you know how many unfinished decisions there are in Serbia? Here, I have a verdict in front of me where one BIA worker has been brought back to work, and, at the time, falsely accused of carrying a weapon. So it's been rightly found not to be true, but it won't be returned to work. So you have as many examples as you want and you know those examples. There's nothing wrong with the judiciary and it's never been good, I don't know who's funny, and unfortunately something doesn't bother to make things better. This is the problem we want to discuss first and foremost with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, with respect to you, that you are here and your functions and with the Attorney General for all time. You remember, Zagorka Dolovac, gentlemen of the Progressives and Democrats, is a common chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2262	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mrs. Radeta said we were talking about on the Justice Committee, and I'm just going to repeat what I said then. So no one is a member of the SNS who, by law, can be, including VSS President Dragomir Milojevic. As for photographing with Alexander Vukic, you're talking about a period when a man has not performed any judicial function. So he was not a judge at the time and could have been a member of any political party. From the moment people were elected judges, none of them were members of the SNS and the SNS were completely clean. I didn't understand what you're talking about about floods. I don't know where you were during the flood, but Serbian citizens have given recognition to the MUP for its tremendous effort and effort to save their lives first and then the property of Serbian citizens in floods that hit almost all of Serbia in 2014. In 2014 and 2015, you had one amazing thing, we restored all of Serbia from the consequences of the floods in the most transparent way possible, so no one today can tell us that it has stolen a single dinar, and we have restored Krupanj and Loznica and all other places in Serbia that have been affected by floods that Serbia has not remembered for 1,000 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2264	Thank you. (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. You know you don't have the right to a replica. (The Belief of Radet, from the place, how can I not? I need to answer a specific question. To the specific question of where were you during the flood? (Miss Radeta, from the city: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2265	Of course I have the right to reply and for this first part, and I will answer this question, of course. Mr. Martinovic didn't understand me very well. I did not say that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is now a member of the SNS, I said that it was, according to Alexander Vukic, in the period between 2009, when he was not re-elected, and his re-election for the judge and immediately and for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So the question is very clear, loud, precise, and I'm not insinuating anything, but I asked that a man say whether he was elected judge that year, because he was elected somewhere over the year. So, do they consider him by the end of that year based on that information or not? So I don't know what's not clear about it. As for criminal charges against the interior minister, Mr. Martinovic understood perfectly, I did not talk about the situation after the flood, I did not talk or mention that someone stole the money during the renovation, etc. Is that what I'm talking about? I was talking about the failures that occurred at the time of this tragic event, which is legally the responsibility of the interior minister. I was just asking what happened to that criminal report? Let Zagorka Dolovac take her into the process and let her say – you radicals are wrong, I reject criminal charges. It's not a dispute, but let him do something. For a direct question, Mr. Martinovic, where I was and what I was doing during the flood in Obrenovac, thank you for asking, I took care of a four-member family in my house during that period. I saw people for the first time, and I'm glad they came back to their house in Obrenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2266	Thank you. The right to replica has Alexander Martinovic and we end up with these replicas, because I think most of the things you're saying are the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2267	I'm done. I won't answer for anything Mrs. Radeta said again. So, you, Mrs. Radeta, just confirmed what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2268	Please, no personal direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2269	Okay. I don't think it's a rude discussion, we're simply exchanging arguments against arguments. So, during the period when Dragomir Milojevic was a member of the SNS, he was not a judge and could be a member of both the SNS and any other political party in the Republic of Serbia. But from the moment he was elected judge, no one is a member of the SNS who can't be legally. If what I tell you as president of the SNS parliamentary group is not enough, I don't mind you asking the same question to the president of the SNS, but I am convinced that you will get the same answer. I have to say again that I didn't understand this about the floods. It's an honor to have helped this family, but I can't understand that the interior minister has to be processed because the floods have hit Serbia. If Serbia's failure to be affected by the Bible's thousand-year flood, which is not remembered, and that's why the interior minister should answer, then I'm sorry, it was meant to correspond with Marko Atlagic and me and all my other colleagues, because at the time we were also the government, as we were in 2014 as well. If you think the government is responsible for the flood, I don't mind, but I've never heard of such a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2270	Comrade Radeta, we all understand that you're asking for the prosecutor to plead your application. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I will now commend him.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2271	Here, I promised to commend my colleague Martinovic – and I will. Here, you're all right about what you said about that criminal charges, but I'm just asking you, as head of the SNS parliamentary group, because you're speaking on behalf of the D.A.'s office, then you can probably ask Mrs. Dolovac to do something about these three criminal charges we've been talking about. Tell me, do you have an answer to the issue of criminal charges for organised crime because of Tomislav Nikolic's diploma, where we provided evidence that he was in Strasbourg the day and time when he was enrolled in the index, that he was sitting in this assembly, or in that assembly, and spoke at a pay phone at the time when he was enrolled in one exam. So don't turn the story away from what's the point. You know what criminal charges mean, you know, colleague Martinovic, and you know that the prosecution is bound to react. We're just looking to react. How? We'll see, maybe he'll drop all those criminal charges. Why don't you say anything about the criminal charges we filed because of the Brussels agreements, from Tadic to the current regime. You will not say that there are no elements of criminal acts for everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and for everything that has happened since the handover of the judiciary to the Shiptars, of the ID cards, of the introduction of the Supreme Court, of the Constitutional Court, of the false state of Kosovo, of the border that was once an administrative crossing, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2272	Time, fellow Radeta. I think you should ask some questions to the chairman of the Justice Committee, not Mr. Martinovic. Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2273	I'm sorry, I said I wouldn't answer my word again, but I just have to. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: behold, thou art not of the words. Well, look, I have to answer because I have to defend the party. What are you gonna do? That's the job. (Miss Radeta, from the city: Which party? Serbian radical? I've already said so to the Serbian Radical. Come on, if we're going to do Serbian Radical, Tomislav Nikolic won his diploma in 2007, so why'd you run for President of the Republic in 2008, if he stole his diploma? As for the Brussels agreements, so why don't you win in Kosovo and Metohija, if Aleksandar Vukic has betrayed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and we have the best results in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija? I didn't understand yours, that I should be doing something right now. I don't even know Zagorka Dolovac. And what would I do now and ask anyone to do something on someone's criminal record? It's not my job, as president of the parliamentary group. I just said that I don't understand not only your insinuations, but the insinuations of other politicians in Serbia who wanted another stone around the neck to hang Alexander Vukic and that the floods struck Serbia in 2014. Yesterday, some sought the responsibility of Alexander Vukic because two girls died in Alexandrovac. They've been seeking for months the responsibility of Alexander Vukic because a helicopter crashed, although every day helicopters fall in both Russia and America and who knows where in the world. So, I just said I don't understand it. I admit I'm stupid, but I don't understand it, and it's not my job to put pressure on anyone and ask anyone to be processed. I have no right to do so, nor any one of my orders should do so, I don't even know those people. But I am convinced that Serbia's flood is not a crime. I read the Penal Code, and I didn't read that there was a crime of responsibility for the flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2274	Time, fellow Martinovic. (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. We end up with replicas. "Please, I must tell you." He can't take it anymore. That's enough, you'll get more opportunities. You'll have more opportunities. We're moving on, please. Do you have to answer every time? (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: I must, when it sets new topics. Well, you asked him questions too. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: Yes... Here, two minutes. ) Pause until 2 p.m. I won't say anything wrong, give me a minute. ) On the basis of Article 112, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break by 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2275	We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Milos Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2276	Dear People's MPs, citizens and guests, I would especially like to focus on the selection of judges for the Municipal Court in Nis, since I am from Nis, and I am particularly interested in that. Before that, I would like to point out, here on a document that I have in my hand, it is a decision to set criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the selection of judges. This is a good thing, we have a formal document where it's clearly defined the way judges choose. That's a very nice thing. Now let's see exactly how judges are elected for this particular case for judges in Nis. It says – the basic criteria are the average rating in the studies, below one. Two, length of study and three, grade work. So that's three key criteria, so for each of them goes 100 points, a total of 300. Now you have some additional criteria, but these are three key factors. And here I have a list of these candidates that the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed, and there are eight of them. I pulled out an average score for all of them together, 8.1 for all together, that's an average student rating and there are several candidates who are a little questionable in some way. Here, we have a gentleman here who has an average of 6.08, so that's less than 6.1. That's, say, if you had 30 exams, and at 28, you get six, and on two, you get seven, as if he was aiming to have a 6 average, so these two weeks got lost. There is now an explanation, a biography for this gentleman, and also an explanation in the end, and says – the comprehensive impression of the High Council of the judiciary on candidates could not affect the average rating achieved in basic studies, as all other relevant selection parameters are at an extremely high level. Now I'm going back to this document, to see what the parameters are, let's once again, the average score, the length of study, the grade of work. The good average assessment did not have such an impact other than these two other relevant parameters, which is the length of study and evaluation of work. From what I've heard, and perhaps I'm wrong, most of the candidates have been given a work grade, a maximum score, 100 points, most of them almost, they've all got 100 points evenly, and this candidate says he's finished his studies at the University of Pristina at 30 years of age. It doesn't necessarily mean that he studied for 10 years, he may have studied less, but we don't have information about how much he really studied, and that's a very important factor here in deciding who's going to be proposed as a candidate for judges. Besides, we have a list of candidates here, but we don't have a ranking, although the document clearly says that there's a system with an evaluation, with a score, just the way it should be, and that's just fine, so it should be. But it would be nice to have a list of all the candidates, so we have a nice line below which we have people who haven't passed, above which we have people who have passed and we know exactly what the situation is. I'd say another example that's not directly related to this, but maybe it's a good parallel, when kids get into high school, we have a ranking list, so they're taking a test, so whoever went above it, and who didn't go under it, and it's all very transparent. Imagine what it would be like if we only had people, students who had passed, and for these we don't know how many points they had. It is therefore somewhat problematic and questionable whether this way of grading was indeed completely accurate and credible. It's very hard for me to believe that one candidate with an average of 6.08 has been elected here to the eight best candidates for Nis. You said there were about 1,200 candidates at the level of Serbia as a whole. I don't know exactly how much it was in Nis, you didn't mention it, I don't have that information, but it's kind of indicative again, and I wonder if it's possible that eight of the best in Nis and among those eight we have a candidate for a judge with this average equal to six. Is it possible that there are no better judges in Nis, there are no better candidates for that place? I've been asking around some private channels for these other names, and I've heard commendable things about some other candidates who are said to be very good and deserve to be here, but that's not true of the one with an average of 6.08. I'm also interested, I wonder, what kind of message we send to students who are now in law school because being a judge is one of the most respected positions and very important in the state. For example, for lawyers, it may be the highest title they can reach or, say, a professor at law school. I agree entirely with what you said on the Justice Committee and that it is not always the most important assessment and that there are other factors. It's a fact and it stands and it's absolutely true, but again I have to call on this decision where it's clearly defined that the first factor, it's okay, they're all equally assessed, the first factor is the average score in the studies. Maybe you don't like this decision, and I get it, maybe you realize that there are better arguments, or better factors that should determine who should be on the list, but we currently have this decision and we should stick to that decision for now, and then maybe later maybe a new rule could be introduced that has something different factors, so we can run it, but for now we have this one. So it's a shame we don't have a list of all the candidates, so let's see who's who. I talked to some people from Nis a little bit more, from the judiciary, and I was informed, and they told me generally in courts in Nis there are some great young people, fantastic and very good and they have high averages. But none of them are on this list. Of course, some of them haven't met the conditions, they're too young, they're not ready yet, objectively they can't run, but I've been distracted by a lawyer who works in a court of law in Nis. That lawyer was a generation student, had an average score of 9.7 and now this is not specifically related to you, just an example, he's there for a certain period of time, and because of how I'm explained he can't get a judge's assessment of work, so he can't run for this contest at all. So this is now a bureaucratic problem, not directly related to you, I'm just saying that this whole process makes it a little bit impossible and prevents some people who are probably much better than some here to get into this race evenly. My colleague here from the parliamentary group, Professor Pavlovic, was slightly more informed about this election process, he also sought a list of some candidates who had not passed so that he could compare now those who had not passed the election and those who had passed. Then he got information that there wasn't really any ranking of the real one. Again, I call on the document once again, a decision that says exactly how the ranking goes, with how many points, but it turns out that you've been taking the High Council to some other criteria, as I say again, maybe you think it's better and you've concluded from practice that this is not the best way, but right now this is the rulebook and we should stick to this rule right now. Professor Pavlovic then took on his own, tried to calculate points for some of the candidates who passed and for those who did not pass, the maximum number of points is 300. Maybe he made a mistake, and now it turns out that some of them had 296 points of 300, and they didn't pass. Here's some that have 180 and they're over. Now we question whether this process was entirely correct. This would help us if we had a list of all the candidates, so we know who they are, and then it's all clear, these are over, these aren't over, and that's it. We're sending a bad message to the students because there are some great people in Nis who went to some games in Oxford, competed in international law in English, competed in English, and achieved very good results. So what do we have to tell those students? It doesn't matter so much Roman right that you have ten, you can have six. It doesn't matter the trade law, the hardest exam at the Faculty of Law in Nis, it doesn't have to be ten, it can be six, because actually that average isn't even that important. I agree, it's not always the most important average rating, but in our country, in our system, that's how we evaluate the work of public officials. If someone's going to be a lawyer or something, and they're going to go to private service, then it's okay, then he might be resourceful, so he's going to replace that he doesn't have a good enough average by having other skills. There's still a clearly defined way to do it here, and we don't have complete information here, and we don't have absolute proof that these are the best candidates. That's why I'd also like to appeal to MPs who are from Nis, now I've noticed, it's a little depression, that no one from Nis here has expressed any views, yet these are the people who are going to be, to say, very important personalities in our city. God forbid we end up in court, they'll come before us and set us up with fate, and none of them have come forward. I have a colleague here in parliament who is from Nis Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, who is from the SNS, from the ruling coalition, she is a lawyer, I would like to hear her opinion. Maybe I missed something here, maybe I didn't understand something. I admit, I'm not from this branch, but this really doesn't make sense to me that this is the best team that could have been chosen for Nis, and I can see for other cities. So, given all this, we won't be able to, unfortunately, because it's not a transparent process to elect judges, we're not sure we've chosen the best, we of the DJ can't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2277	Thank you. National MP Jovan Jovanovic is not present. MP Vladimir Djuric has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2278	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the judiciary is crucial for the establishment of the rule of law, the judge in particular. I'm not talking about concrete processes here. Many of my fellow Members and fellow MPs have mentioned here various cases known to the public, which their court epilogue did not receive. The situation in the judiciary is also about the fact that these cases are being talked about in the media, that these cases are also being talked about in this home. Neither the media nor this congregation home should be a place where anyone will present anything about any case that has not received a court’s epilogue. That place should be a court and only a court. Since that's not, unfortunately, the case and since we have so much to listen to and say here, I think we can figure out what the general state of justice is already based on the very amount of words spoken. The High Judicial Council has provided a lot of information on the process of electing judges who are first elected to judicial functions. There's no information on why the judges are missing, whether they're retired, going to law school, some better-paid jobs in the private sector, consulting jobs, in Canada? Let's see if the state has a problem getting and retaining the best talents, because this should be the aim of the High Council of the Judiciary, that judicial functions are attended by students of generations, those who have had the highest average grades in their studies, who have completed their colleges in record time and who, by character, have shown themselves to be people who will do decent study functions. Certain questions related to selection and ranking of candidates in accordance with the decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for judges and the presidents of courts remain answered on the Committee on Justice. The decision laid down a hit procedure for judges and judges who were first elected to serve as judges. Article 4 also states that the average of studies, length of study, evaluation of work and some additional criteria are seen. We, therefore, have ranked some candidates and compared, for example, one candidate with an average score of 6.9 who studied for eight years, who has been proposed and one candidate with an average score of 9.6 who has studied for three years and has not been proposed. They both had a positive opinion from their superiors. And it's not the only case that we've come across and by which when we implement a decision that's a valid regulation, we just don't get a list of candidates that the commission got. Furthermore, the High Council of the Judiciary said for one of the candidates with a low average of studies in the explanation that it was particularly noted that the session of all the judges of the Court of Justice in his town had been very supportive of him as a candidate. Now, from a valid sub-legislative act, it should follow that there is no subjective determination and evaluation of the criteria or that subjectivity is reduced to a minimum, and that these criteria must be applied literally as prescribed and that candidates must be stabbed by the mathematics prescribed by the decision. However, the High Council of the Judiciary replied in writing that the list of candidates from the ranks of the judicial assistants is obtained from a special megasoftver, a mega-programme. So we didn't get an explicit answer to the question - does this mean that the score and ranking of candidates is running according to their mathematics and that the mathematics of this programme is consistent with what the law prescribes, in this case a concrete sublegal act? So, are the candidates stinging and ranking according to a program whose mathematics is simply not legal? The Law on Judges is further set out in Article 45 and that the professionality of the candidates is checked and assessed by the evaluations of one to five on the examination organised by the High Council of the judiciary. There are no data on the results of the candidates' examinations. On the Justice Committee, we heard that the High Council of the Judiciary knows about low-average candidates, that there are those with higher average grades that have not passed, that they respect the importance of the average and duration of the studies, but that it does not guarantee the ability to do any legal work and that one of the candidates with a higher average would be a great professor or doctor of science, a lecturer, but that the esteemed type and constitution of a man at the assessment of whether he is specific to a judge or not, and that was appreciated by the mentors of the candidates. That is why, among other things, it is prescribed to respect the opinion of the session of all judges. Again, it is not explicitly responsible whether the ranking is done by law or not, because when the simple provisions of the decision are dragged through the digitron and the candidates are stabbed, we do not get a list that has been delivered to us. I'm not asking what's better between these two obviously different rating criteria. I'm just asking which one's legal. Even if they're both legal, we have a problem with the conflict of regulations, which is also not good. It also confuses the fact that all candidates received maximum points based on an assessment of the work of their superiors. The question of the legality of the election of judges is very important, because if the judiciary violates the rules governing its work, then we have sent from the very top of the judiciary a message that the legal system is not permanent and is not equal to all, and that the rule of law does not have full capacity or that it does not exist at all and that the state is a privileged mother and other stepmothers. If a young judge’s career is at the very beginning thrown into a shadow of doubt due to doubts about the legality of his election, that judge will at the very start of his career have damaged integrity, which makes him susceptible to various influences and prevents him from performing his job with dignity. A serious and responsible candidate should be interested in the legality of his own choice. This would be behaviour from the integrity of the person who has the constitution to perform the judicial function and that constitution that has been designated to us on the Justice Committee as the most important, if not crucial in this choice, because the person making the constitution, therefore, the person of integrity himself would not agree to be elected to public office through the process of questionable legality. And that's exactly the kind of judge we need if we really want to have a legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2279	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2280	Thank you, Your Honor. Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, representatives of the Council of Prosecutors, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will look at this election by representatives of Bosniak Sandzak, who I represent in this House, as this is an extremely important topic for the individual and collective rights of Bosniaks, including the right to employment and equal representation in state bodies with public powers. When we talk about the representation of Bosniaks in courts and public prosecutors in Sandzak, in light of this election of judges and prosecutors, we testify to the continuation of discrimination and the removal of Bosniaks from the justice system. In the area covered by the Basic Court and the Criminal Court in Novi Pazar, Bosniaks account for 80.17% of the population and those courts are represented well below this percentage. Out of the six judges who are elected for court in Novi Pazar, only three candidates who have been proposed are Bosniak nationalities, while the other three have been proposed and come from the territory of the Rasak municipality. A proposal like this is unacceptable. The first reason is territoriality, because the judges elected do not come from the territory of the court that covers the area, which is Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica. Here I am talking not only about discrimination against Bosniaks, candidates of Bosniak nationality, but also about discrimination against candidates of Serbian nationality who have been rejected from the territory of Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica and have not passed as candidates. Important criteria for selecting judges are, of course, expertise and high moral criteria, high moral quality. The moral qualities of a candidate can only be assessed by the environment from which the candidate comes and the environment in which the candidate is to perform a judicial or prosecutorial post. The election of judges outside the territory of the city of Novi Pazar and outside the territory of the jurisdiction covered by the court in Novi Pazar prevents our young man from progressing further in the profession, because the vacancy of the judges is being held by people on the side and thus ours stays either unemployed, or a volunteer, or at best a judicial assistant. On the other hand, they do not free themselves from court assistants and so our young lawyers remain judges forever, and since you do not choose them as judges, no new jobs have been created for trainees and so for years no one has been accepted. I would especially like to draw your attention to this information and I am sorry that the Minister of Justice is not here today to hear, the Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Pazar has existed since 2006 and for all this time as far as there is not a single graduate lawyer from this University has been admitted to court in Novi Pazar, more specifically not in any of the five judicial institutions located in Novi Pazar. Now tell me, what kind of message do you send to young lawyers who end up at this university? These people volunteer in court just to get the right to pass a judicial exam and what's next? What are the chances and possibilities for their advancement? The second reason why this proposal is unacceptable is certainly an unconformed national structure and a continuation of the current negative practice. A competition for the election of the three judges of the basic court in Novi Pazar has included 29 candidates, with 16 candidates being Bosniak nationality and only one candidate has been elected and that we understand each other is a high-quality candidate. It's not that he's accepted just because he's Bosniak. However, two candidates were brought from the neighbouring Rask municipality. We heard earlier from a representative of the Radical Party, which is why it is unacceptable, because it increases costs and it is a blow to the budget. The Constitution in Article 77, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in Article 21, and the Framework Convention on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities in Article 15, stipulate that the national structure of the judicial and public prosecutorial functions must be brought into line with the national population structure for the areas for which those courts or prosecutors are responsible. The European Commission also criticised Serbia in its latest progress report on progress towards the EU for insufficient representation of Bosniaks and Albanians in courts, prosecutors, police, inspections and other state authorities with public authority. This occasion also brought to the attention of the Bosniak National Council, which as the most representative body of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia asked the Ministry of Justice, the High Council of the judiciary, the Greater Prosecutors and the Assembly Committees in the National Assembly to annul this contest and to adopt a proposal to ensure the alignment of the national structure of judges and prosecutors with the national structure of the population for areas, i.e. for the area for which the court in Novi Pazar is responsible. During each election of judges and prosecutors, these provisions of the Constitution, law and international conventions that I have now stated are being violated here, and every time we express hope that the next time will not be so. The question arises: What kind of message do you send to the citizens of this country, the Bosniaks, when you do not prevent them from engaging actively in the work of the judicial authorities? Citizens with this kind of choice of judges with full rights have no confidence in the objectivity of courts and do not trust in equality before the law. There are many who would rebel on such a proposal today. It's many candidates who would rebel because they don't accept being rejected just because they're not alike. I personally don't justify their silence. However, I believe that they should be much louder in defending these rights, but in some ways I understand why you are silent. I suppose you're distracting me that I have time, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2281	Please bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2282	... I also have a time-limited representative of the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2283	You do not have the opportunity to use the time that belongs to the boss or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group in this part of the session. The time that belongs to your MP group for discussion on this agenda item has been used. I'll give you 10 seconds to bring an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2284	So I understand why candidates who are rightly dissatisfied with this choice and this kind of proposal from judges and prosecutors are not being advertised. In some ways, they're afraid of closing their own doors for further career advancement. I urge you to annul these proposals for the election of judges in Novi Pazar and bring in a new one that will work on reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2285	The word has a folk letter, Ana Ciric, and let the MP Marko Djurisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2286	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, I am extremely pleased to address today for the first time in this House, because I think this topic is really important and it represents a pillar of our society's functioning. The material we received today details the candidates' proposals, as well as their biographies. I think they're really good quality, and they're giving us hope that this reform that's being implemented right now is really going to bear fruit. When we talk about selecting candidates for any of the functions that are of this importance, and especially when we talk about functions that should be completely independent, this is how we shape the future of our country. When we say the future, we're not talking about the next year, two, three, but we're talking about a further future, a projection that needs to create for us a security and a stable state. I will not comment on the candidate's biographies on this occasion, because I think it is of great importance that the way they were chosen, the way and the criteria used in the election, and especially since most candidates have already come from the judiciary and the prosecution, so I really believe that this is enough to convince us that this is your decision, i.e. Your proposal is indeed correct and will yield results. When we talk about women in office, we usually have some percentages and some quotas to satisfy, such as, for example, in the National Assembly, 30% of MPs, they need to be people half that are less represented, and in this case they are women. I am extremely pleased that you chose so many women to be judges, deputy judges, prosecutors, and they did not have to be in any quota, but were chosen exclusively by their competences. We will all agree that the judiciary is vital to the development of our country and our society, because with a strong and independent judiciary we can only go forward, and for this reason it is necessary to make the conditions in which the judiciary will function completely independent, and I believe that this is one step, first and important step, and that is the choice of staff that are professional and young. What matters to us is that you chose a lot of young people, and they are the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2287	Thank you. National MP Marko Djurisic is not present. The word has the People's MP Bosko Obradovic, and let the MP Bojan Torbica be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2288	Thank you, Your Honor. To go to the judge, it should mean to go to justice. Our people's proverb says that justice holds land and cities, yet "Dushan's Law", that it should not be judged in fear of the emperor, but by justice, and indeed this is a subject of great sensitivity and great importance for our country. I am pleased to see here the representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, to see who these people are behind the most important judicial functions in this society, who really have a huge responsibility when such an act is chosen by the holders of the highest judicial functions and thus determine some fate of the judiciary in Serbia for some subsequent period, and later three years later, they confirm who, I say, justified trust or not. What, of course, I can speak from the point of view of the opposition and criticise every proposal that comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't think it would be fair in this case. It's not easy to set up in this case, and I'm going to do my best to point out what specificities these are. On the one hand, this procedure seems indeed to be the only proper procedure. Indeed, you as an independent body should give these proposals, you have experience, you have knowledge, you know practice on the ground, you've given people, you've proposed people from the judiciary, in this way it's respected the independence of the judiciary, and in every other way it should simply be a procedure beyond politics and past politicians, and it's not normal for us to choose here who should be the bearer of the highest judicial functions, when you know better and you can evaluate their work, because every day some people work with them and they, I say, can best evaluate them. And indeed from that point of view, it should be supported, because the profession has been expressed and in some ways suggested by those who should inherit the profession. That point of view is one. The second point of view is, of course, our negative experience that we in Serbia have with the judiciary. First of all, the party's influence on the judiciary, and then one other influence that may not have been mentioned enough, which is worth mentioning, which is so-called. A family godfather's influence on the judiciary. And that's one subject that's both painful and slightly under-detected, and as much as cured in our justice system, that would be just a topic for discussion. Of course from that point of view, I can point out from the corner of Dvora, so to speak, the problems we've had with the judiciary. Dismissed criminal charges for the 2012 electoral theft, rejected criminal charges for anti-constitutional action in the Brussels Agreement, our various criminal charges related to high-tech crime, where someone falsely presents himself in ours has been on the Internet, which has never received any epilogue. I can remind the public of the various other things that have been promised, especially by the SNS, which is so famous for the false pre-election promises that they will deal with corruption, and here for five full years we have not had a single judicial verdict on corruption, nor is there a single man in Serbia's prisons today who robbed this country for the past 25 years. Well, how many years does it take to complete any procedure? So, as long as they're under the pretext of judicial independence to go out of date, there's no judicial verdicts, no lawsuits, etc.? So, just a lot of stories, and a little results. What I would also like to point out is that we have a case, let's say, that both in our time and in this House of the People's Assembly, some prison suits such as, say, a prison suit for Mladjan Dinkic, by the current Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, so we don't see anyone ever prosecuted the economic killer of Mladjan Dinkic, who is directly to the destruction of our domestic banks and businesses. So it seems to me that the SNS policy is in the judiciary, actually continues in a lot of what DS policy and that DS personnel are and how welcome to SNS personnel solutions, that there is one serious continuity. Besides, I don't see why you don't solve so many cases that are mentioned here, since you've been in power for five years. I think there was Rasim Ljajic, really honest when he said the other day that Aleksandar Vukic was making a petoctobaric and continued on October 5th, perhaps the peak of October 5th. What I want to point out here is that, so here we want to praise a few things, which are not favored members of the judicial academy, because it was a way to install party, special and similar personnel into the prosecution and courts. We must not allow that kind of force of coursemen and obedients, but we need people who have just gained experience in the judiciary and thus favour what is good here. Attention should also be paid to the fact that in the judiciary there is a widespread phenomenon of nepotism and favoration of relatives, which I was talking about and should be stopped. The Courts don't want family judicial clans, but professional, decent and brave judges and prosecutors. We must choose new staff in the judiciary and rejuvenate the structure, because it is known that at this point there are courts and prosecutors who are overworked, and there are not enough judges and deputy prosecutors to act. On the other hand, in the Belgrade judiciary, we have constant chaos with evictions and emigrations, all affecting the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecution. Now that we're choosing new judges and deputies, we need to take care of the conditions, that is. What kind of courtrooms, cabinets, and all the things that should represent the basic conditions for the work of people in the judiciary. The issue of earnings in the judiciary is also a particular issue, and here Dvori supports all positions of judicial unions and professional associations aimed at improving their position, and especially at strengthening the capacity of the rule of law, as it is no longer permitted for parties to judge, or membership card, the right. The courts are also concerned about the introduction of new judicial professions of public enforcement, public notaries, which narrows the jurisdiction of courts, tariffs and costs, all at the expense of Serbian citizens, which is a special topic. We're particularly concerned, I'll point out two more things in the end. We are particularly concerned about the pressure of certain media on courts and prosecutors, which has already created an ambience where the minority's public condemns, where it reacts emotionally, instead of establishing in appropriate procedures legally relevant facts by the competent state authorities, some media are accused and judged. The specific issue is cases where the prosecution and courts are practically privatised by private companies, so there were a large number of cases in which the prosecution protects interests and ousts debts, for example for the company Daeners Club d.o.o., which for many years issued payment cards even though it was not a business bank. Why didn't the prosecution initiate an unauthorized issue of such cards and perhaps some judges and prosecutors might have some "vip" status at the Daeners Club? Finally, perhaps the most sensitive issue, should be interrupted by the practice that foreign embassies, especially the United States and Germany, are involved in justice trials in Serbia, in the work of the judiciary, in particular in terms of special so-called special so-called specialties. War crimes courts, organized crime. It's something you need to talk about here. It's a truly respected procedure. We believe it's respected and professional, we don't have enough trust because we've had a lot of negative experiences in the past. Are we professional enough to assess all of this, whether we should give you blank trust, as long as we're holding back the election, whether we might be holding back the selection of new judges and prosecutors, which is necessary for the work of the judiciary, if we were to oppose or seek the withdrawal of your decisions at this point? How can we trust you, who will answer for this if you have any failures in your work, that is a large number of questions that are not answered at this time. It is something that will, of course, be the subject of further exposure to our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2289	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2290	I don't think Mr. Bosko Obradovic can speak without reading the texts that were written to him in advance. I don't know who's writing those anthological speeches for you, but I don't care much after all. What I'm trying to say is that one of the Continuers of October 5th, Dvera, because Bojan Pajtic as the DS president who was the main participant in the Friday-October events in 2000, urged Serbian citizens to vote for Dveri right in the polling stations, where elections are repeated. Mr. Krsto Janušević has been trying to explain to you for days that you are in Novi Varosha, for example. in a coalition with the DS. So I think there is a dead race between you and the DS, which is a major continuation of the five-octobaric traditions, which, as the citizens of Serbia well know, left a real wasteland in Serbia. As for foreign embassies, the influence of major forces on Serbia's policy and individual political parties, I think it's not in the SNS, but in the laundry movement, the organisation or what you call what you belong to, the lady who is an official of the administration of a foreign state, a great force. She's on that country's payroll. It's not on the payroll that's in the SNS presidency, it's in the chairmanship of a party that's supposed to be Russian, Serbian, Orthodox, family -- when one of the key people, Mrs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2291	Mr. Martninović, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2292	... which is on the payroll of the administration of one great Western force, not to say super force.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2293	It's been two minutes. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. ) You will be entitled to a replica of course, please just sign in. Replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2294	Unlike you and Alexander Vukic, Mr Martinovic, I am not aware, but of course I use everything the other MPs and expert advice from the Serbian Dvora Movement know and I will always be a spokesman for a lot smarter people than me and a lot more professional people than I am, specifically for this area. The second important question is, who is the former regime here in this House of the National Assembly? So you, Mr. Martinovic, took Goran Vesic, who was probably the one who filled the long pipes of the Belgrade City Assembly on October 5th. So, you took the candidates of the yellows, you took the bearers of that failed regime to run the City of Belgrade today and you told someone about the DS. So how many DS personnel do you have in your ranks today? Or do you dare, which I think is particularly brazen and rude, to insult one of the most prudent Serbs of the world, Professor Jasmin Vujic just because he doesn't support the SNS, but supports the Dvori? You're talking to someone about foreign agents who are friends with Tony Blair, with Hillary and Bill Clinton, who swear on the friendship of certified Serbs, war criminals and criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2295	Please do not address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2296	That's, I'd say, really unserious, Mr. Martinovic. So here's the thing very clearly. You can't escape the truth that there's no result of fighting corruption. They're gone. You've been in power for five years -- no judicial verdict, no one's in Serbia's prison for years on a multiple-year sentence guilty of Serbia's robbery. Just talk, just arrests in front of cameras, only big media shows led by lead actor Alexander Vukic, and there are no concrete results to fight corruption. I again invite you to start with SNS, Dragoljub Zindovic of Prepolje, Dimitri Paunovic of Nova Varoshi, because corruption in the heart of SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2297	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2298	You didn't tell us, Mr. Obradovic, whose payroll is on and on whom he receives the salary of that most prudent Serbian woman of all who does not support the SNS and supports you from the Dvora. Do I need to remind you, Mr. Obradovic, that you went to the polls with a party whose mandate was carried out by the famous 24 controversial privatisations that the European Commission pointed out? These privatisations occurred when you led Serbia, when you had a minister of economy and when you decided which factories would be sold and at what price. And the consequences of your policy are unfortunately still felt today. And all of what the Serbian government is doing, all of what Alexander Vukic is doing, we're doing to fix the difficult economic situation, the catastrophic economic situation we found in 2012. Let me remind you, Mr. Obradovic, when you were in power, you and your political allies, we had a negative growth rate of minus 4. Now we have the first eight months of GDP growth rate of 2.8. By the end of the year, probably three. In 2017 we cross four, reduce unemployment, increase the number of domestic and foreign investors, create new jobs. Here, Mr. Vukic, who you hate so much and whose name you mention so much, was in Senta today at the opening of another new factory. We're opening factories all over Serbia. You shut them down, you put locks on those factories, we take those locks off, we open new factories, we open jobs. Mr. Bradovich, I'm telling you that, and I'm telling your friends from the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2299	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2300	... I'm done, the election's over, the citizens have said theirs. How much you're worth on April 24th. You're worth it so you're on the verge of censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2301	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. I think the replicas take too long. We'll go back to the agenda. During your discussion and your discussion, you caused a replica. I think I've been too correct and there's no reason to continue with the replica. We're moving on with the agenda. Since MP Bojan Torbica is no longer present, since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. National MP Miroslav Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2302	How much time do I have? Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors today we live in a country where politics is above the institutions of the system, above the lives of citizens, and an objective issue is also raised in the objectivity of today's election of proposed candidates. In previous years, we had the opportunity to see results in the judiciary that were pompously announced, the ministers were replaced. We haven't seen any results out of all this. The situation has deteriorated and deteriorated from day to day, and therefore we should not ask anyone outside the country, we should not ask Europe or the world. We should ask our citizens, those who need their rights to exercise right in the judiciary of the RS. Examples prove that politics has a major impact on the justice system during the previous years, and thanks to its influence on politics, the government is fighting war and political struggles with political insinuators, racketeering businesses and businessmen, and it scares them, of course, what is the biggest problem, preventing competition in this particular area, and so the real question is – do we choose those who are similar to the authorities and the ruling regime or those who are truly the most professional? I want to believe because I live in this country that we will choose the most professional people and that these candidates are really those people who need to perform those functions, but by looking at the practice and history that is the teacher of life in the previous four years, I can't be sure of that. If you look now at how it works and the announced fight against corruption that we've heard about back five years from the prime minister, people who rule today that it'll be the first thing they'll do, that's going to stand in line for corruption, it's indeed come down to media announcements of arrests in front of cameras and a large number of criminal charges without the court's epilogue, very few charges, and the verdict is even less. That is why the question arises – should there also be a court in this country, the prosecution if we have the executive and legislative authority that is suing, who is running the proceedings, which proves and which ultimately rules? We have countless examples of practice where pompous media arrests and various other crimes were announced by the highest authorities of the state. The question arises – who performs what function here? Should the prime minister announce arrests or should competent institutions do so? Should the regime media talk about how 100 tycoons and 100 politicians will be arrested, how there is evidence for this or that, or should the institutions of the system do so? One of the most recent examples is whether or not to act in the Savala case, where part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been suspended for a certain period of time. Six months later, in the country where we live, we don't have an answer for who tied someone up during the night, kicked out of his facility, and destroyed it. The more we talk about justice and the country we live in. Until we get an answer to that, although the prime minister announced it, but did not give it, we cannot be convinced that the situation in Serbia has changed and that there is an institution system. Apparently it doesn't exist. I also have to mention a large number of items that are obsolete. These days we hear about the case of Karic and the subject of Milosevic, not to forget both Sutotic and all other cases that have become obsolete and caused great damage not only to the state, but to the citizens of whom the Republic of Serbia is financed today. Also, there are a number of cases in which, if judges are not similar to these cases, they change or are being pressured or intimidated, as we could see in the case against the prime minister's brother, Andrej Vukic, where it was done very effectively and in one way that shows that the judiciary in Serbia can also be effective, if it is in the interest of the authorities. On the other hand, my citizens of Triestenik and Alexandrovec and Kruševec ask me when they will be able to exercise their rights in court in cases that last years, in cases where they cannot achieve their justice or when those for whom ordinary citizens have filed may be some applications or some who have misused certain functions they have performed. So, as research shows, 80% of Serbian citizens do not believe in the judicial system and that is the assessment. This government and the Assembly should not be alienated from their citizens and should ask them for an assessment of their work and the quality of their work. We also have a situation where prosecutors and judges are frightened and frightened of hearing what politicians are going to tell them. I'm not just saying this, this is what they're all gonna tell you, except I'm saying it in public. All the people will tell you that. So, the press is being sued, people are being intimidated, and today we have a situation of chronic fear in a country in which we live and in which we should rule the right, to live in a country of rule of law, not in a country where there is pride, passion, intimidation and abuse of power. This is precisely why, of course, not because of our assessment, because I am not professional and competent to assess the quality of these people, I should do so by the institutions involved, but by learning the practice of this regime so far how to abuse the judiciary, the judicial system and how it treats these people, I cannot be convinced that this will not be a group of people who will be party listeners and who will judge as it suits the ruling regime. That is why the SDS and People's Movement Group of Serbia will not vote for these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2303	Thank you. You'll get the word, of course. We've got multiple reports in the system. Let's take it in a row. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the peoples of Parliament Darko Laketić, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2304	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I believe he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Namely, what it's about. First of all, I am a man who is very tolerated and who can endure criticism and, of course, advice, whether he is well-intentioned or not, but in this case, it is really immoral that those who have done reform in the judiciary, as they have done, that practically people have been selected from one office in one or more cities, who will continue to do their judicial call, and who, today, give us moral lessons about how the procedure and anything in the selection of new members, or new employees, new court workers, or courts and prosecutors, are not valid. It's embarrassing precisely because, simply, people who have not respected not only the judiciary and the judiciary, but not respected their own state, give themselves the right to teach us moral lessons. For these reasons, I think the Rules of Procedure have been injured and I think the dignity of this House has been violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2305	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament's vote to be declared in the day of the vote? (No) I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo, also authorised representative, first of all, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2306	Dear Chairman, I would like to point out that you have injured Article 104 as you have moved very quickly to another speaker, and you have not given us the opportunity to report, so by Article 104, you have denied us the right to replication. I would like to advise you to look at how today, before you, the session was led by the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, who did not deny the right of MPs to reply. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic is very eloquent and eloquent and I'm sure he can handle himself. You don't have to defend him and his party against the many painful facts we point to. I know he's in pain and he's in pain, so he's talking about closing down the factory. He did not arrest Mladjan Dinkic, but moreover, Aleksandar Vukic, his boss, has appointed Ivica Kotic, head of the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic, as his cabinet chief. He appointed the finance minister he got from the World Bank. So, all those who destroyed the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2307	Dear fellow Minister, you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I need to direct you to article 103, which says that you can advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately, immediately after the injury has been done, not after that. So thank you. We're moving on. Has anyone else answered? The basis of the report is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2308	Dear Vice President Milicevic, I call on 106. The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. We've heard the previous speaker talk about things that aren't even on the agenda. So, for example. about the verdicts, talks and gives our judgments and we interfere again with the judicial authorities and prosecutors, even in proceedings that have not been ruled. For me, it's pressure on the court and on the prosecution, on the other hand, and on some of the processes that have been completed, like. The constant mention of the Prime Minister's brother. That's what they do out of hatred for the Prime Minister. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, to interpret here the verdict to Mr. Milosevic, the former president, is working precisely for those who violated the RS Constitution, the RS Constitutional Court and therefore did not respond. So it's unimaginable to be working in this high parliament. On the other hand, let me finally say that there are two stains in the history of the Serbian people. The first is the stain of sending Karadjordje's head and the second, in which the gentlemen participated, Milosevic to The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2309	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2310	Thank you. You said Article 27 and regarding Articles 107, 103 and 104 and your right to explain that you can give a replica to whoever you want, whom you will not be entitled to be chaired by a right of discretion, but it is unacceptable for you to address us by not being able to get a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure and having to talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then to attend the abuse of the President's right, to listen to a MP who does not speak a single letter about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or to report that he is talking about the previous speaker, because the previous speaker was the authorised representative of the Parliament Group of the Dveri, Mr. Nogo. So if, in front of the entire Serbian public and before us, one MP is denied the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure because he did not report immediately after the previous speaker, and then two minutes later you give the same right to another MP, who is also not talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the previous speaker, then you blatantly violate the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, and you abuse the position of the chairman. Please don't do that, because there's no need. It is your right to give the People's MPs a replica or not, but you have no right to discriminate against the right under Rule 103 that the MP gets his word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, you have no right to mock us by not giving one MP a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure within four minutes and giving it to another. It doesn't matter who it is, it's not good for this Parliament, so please don't do it. I'm not asking you to plead, but don't, there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2311	Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP George Komlenski, head of the parliamentary group. (Milan Lapcevic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2312	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, today we are... (Milan Lapcevic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2313	Please excuse me, I couldn't see Ambassador Lapčević. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2314	The replica of Mr Martinovic's presentation, the president of the SNS parliamentary group, which was said in the previous part, and is abundantly false and, of course, not the first time. But in order not to be in that people's -- a hundred times a lie becomes true, I have to answer these disgusting lies. So, to talk about that, at the time of the DSS and the government of Vojislav Kostunica, economic growth was the smallest, that the biggest deficit, that the destroyed economy, was pure untrue. Mr. Martinović, go to the National Bank site, which is run by your member, Mrs. Tabakovic, and look. The real growth of gross social product from 2005 to 2008 was from 5.5% to 5.7%. Average earnings ranged from 209 euros in 2005 to 400 euros in 2008. The deficit was from minus 1.7 to 0.5 in the plus. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 50% in 2004 and 28% in 2008. The course of the dinar was 83 at the beginning, and at the end of the term 81. The external debt of 14 billion fell to 8.7. These are the parameters you can dream of. You can only dream. Keeping the economy in line, 24 privatisations and the like, for four years you've kept the government absolute, and the police and the judiciary, it's all under your jurisdiction, here you go, you've got all the prerogative powers to investigate everything and to condemn everyone. Don't take over the jurisdiction of the judicial authority and determine who's guilty of something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2315	Time. Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2316	I'm not going to take over the jurisdiction of the judicial authority, I'm the president of the parliamentary group, and for me, it's a relevant opinion of the citizens. On what the citizens thought about DSS policy, they presented it in the April 24th elections. You who keep pushing us - ask the citizens, go to the people, what the people say, we have asked, gentlemen, the people. We asked him on 24 April, he said – Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are dragging Serbia forward. I ask you, Mr. Lapchevic, you who swear so much to the people, how many votes did you win in the White Palace? Where is this people who vote for the DSS, if there's any more of the DSS? I'm sorry to tell you this, but I don't know what wing in the DSS you represent anymore, I don't even know who your party president is, and I don't know who your president is, and to tell you the truth, I don't know what you're getting your word for it, but it doesn't matter that much. The Serbian Progressive Party won 70 per cent of the vote in the White Palanca on September 18th. Why do I insist on the White Palanca? Because it is not a small thing to win in a small, abandoned municipality in southern Serbia. You who swear so much to the people, who say that we are working against the people, that we have done nothing good for Serbia, here we have won 70% of the votes in the White Palanca. How many votes did the DSS win in the White Palace? If you carry a rescue for Serbia, here, tell me both you and Mr. Alexic and Bosko Obradovic, how many votes did you win in Beli Palanca, a poor municipality that expects rescue from DS, DSS, Dveri, etc.?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2317	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The right to a replica, first of all, has the People's MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2318	The right to tell you, Mr. Martinovic, I thought you were smarter and you'd use some better arguments, but never mind, I accept all that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2319	I ask you to honor the dignity of the National Assembly and of the People's Messengers, and in this way do not address the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2320	Yes, dignitously. I respect Mr. Martinovic very much, but let me tell you something, she has a folk – which someone is ashamed of, someone is proud of. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: How many votes did you win? You should be ashamed of what you serve. What are you talking about? Which one of you won the votes? What votes did you win? For the sake of the public, the SNS experienced a fiasco in the April 24th elections in Beli Palanca. Then she violently disbanded the Bela Palanka Municipality Assembly, falsified the election results, and all those who were in Tadic's party and then won the SNS ran to the SNS, and were then joined and defeated and those who won allegedly won 75% of the votes with quasi parties in the re-election. Now, in such a false democracy, Mr. Martinovic, the DSS will not participate, while you create a virtual reality for us as you steal and disband congregations by force. In such a Serbia, we will not...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2321	Mr. Lapčević, you can't talk to the MPs that way. You got the right to the line, you used it. (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica, mentioning DS. Just a second, please. You will receive the right to a replica, but before you first came to the call of MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2322	Thank you. As for Mr. Martinovic's remarks on my election result, I will be happy to answer him, because I was the bearer of the list in Trstenik and fought against eight parties on the list with SNS and Aleksandra Vukic at the head. You have barely succeeded, with all the pressures and Bratislava Gasic, your former minister and his media, to beat me by 0.5%. We won 36%, I guess that means something to Mr. Martinovic. You come out whenever you want to, and then we'll measure as many votes as there are. Secondly, you are now actually hiding behind the character and the work of Alexander Vukic and supporting this political system in partocrats, which destroys Serbia. Now we're talking about selecting high-ranking judiciary and the D.A.'s office. I'll tell you one thing, in four years of your term, 1,334 you have a liberating and refuting verdict. It will be paid by Serbian citizens from their pockets, and you, Mr. Martinovic, or your authority, will not pay the people. We also download to cities and municipalities of money tomorrow, take pensioners, take everyone, and then we have the political processes set up to pay different compensations. Now, that's the difference between you and me. When the political system changes and we're all on the line by name and by last name, you won't be able to manipulate as you are now manipulating the White Palanco, because you've been growing from 22% to 70% in a few months, threatening and pressing people there and telling them lies and lies. It's a system. When you change the system, when we all stand on the line, then we can talk about what the result has achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2323	Thank you. The People's MP Goran Ciric has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2324	The Democratic Party is mentioned, and this call for the results of local elections in the White Palanca is also shown in fact by this relationship that we have talked about in the past days, which is to reduce jurisdiction in local self-government, less and less jurisdiction, by having fiscal centralisation done all the time, thus reducing the political competences of local self-government. How is it possible that the SNS won 22% of the election on April 24th, so just three months ago? Because they lost those elections in the White Palanca, no local government was accepted, elections were repeated under the enormous pressure we have seen all these years in all the local elections in Serbia, and activists of the Democratic Party felt it best on themselves, from getting beats, from pressure and from the transfer of the local government. We have now received the satisfaction that in all Serbia, 99% of the local government is the Serbian Progressive Party. You can be satisfied with that, but I think you're making a huge mistake, the same as the Democratic Party may have made in 2008, but to a lesser extent, and without such methods as were seen in the White Palanca between April 24th and the last election, when at 22%, imagine, in three months, raising that percentage to 75%. But in what way? In a way that opposition parties, including the Democratic Party, boycotted these elections, that the decision on the boycott of these elections was made by your coalition partners, the political parties that are with you in the benches, and that you, you know it well, and you are the chairman, and that there was then an unprecedented pressure on the local committees who made decisions on that boycott of the election, knowing what he had made...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2325	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq, time's up. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2326	So, it's interesting that, Mr. Martinovic, we finally determine what happened on October 5th, and perhaps it could be helped by Serbian Progressive Party adviser William Montgomery, who is the organizer of October 5th, to finally resolve who is actually behind the Serbian Progressive Party. As far as local elections are concerned, to be very precise, you know that, the Serbian Progressive Party did not participate at all in the April 24th local elections in Serbia. All the lists in Serbia were called "Alexander Vukic – Serbia Wins", at the republic, province and local level. None of the leaders, none of you sitting here, were allowed to come out with their name and last name in any city or municipality in Serbia and compete in the election with the others. You're all hiding behind Alexander Wolfie. I went to Cačka, "Dveri – Bosko Obradović" received 25% of the votes. It is my strength, but it is not Marko Parezovic who came out, nor was it called the Serbian Progressive Party list – Marko Parezanovic or Osto Mijlovic, but "Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins", because they were not allowed under their name to compete with us, but they hid behind Vukic and what Vukic did, he did. And, the final thing, the key thing, turn a little bit into your benches, Mr. Martinovic, look at how many carriers of the former regime are sitting with you. You're accusing the Democratic Party of Serbia or Dvori, so where's Dragan Shormaz? So where's Dragan Shormaz, is he responsible for DSS time? How many MPs do you have from the Democratic Party of Serbia in your benches, how many from the JUL, how many from the SPS? Well, that SPS sits with you in power for several terms, and in time you criticized him for destroying the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2327	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. It's been two minutes. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2328	Mr. Milicevic, I now have two minutes to replicate this DSS-Dver-Democratic Party coalition in various aggregate states, but I will try. On the advice of Mr. Obradovic, I turn around right and left and I don't see any of these people here, honest and honest, belong to some terrible regime. Show me a finger and a man sitting here stealing someone, robbing, privatizing something, rolling in his pocket, getting an apartment, some field, some vineyard, etc. I don't interfere in the judiciary. The Serbian Progressive Party does not interfere with the judiciary, what verdicts will be made. Whether or not those judgments will be satisfied, that's the job for the courts. I, gentlemen, ask you how many votes you won on April 24th and how many votes you won on September 18th in the White Palace, nothing else. You don't have to be nervous, you don't have to insult anyone, just answer me how many votes you've won, and on that basis tell me who the citizens support, Alexander Vukic and SNS or you. As for Mr. Kiric's remarks, she's, uh, I'm sorry to have to say, funny. It's funny for someone to say it - my activists are beating someone, and I'm boycotting the election. What do you need activists for if you've boycotted the election? What if I beat up an activist party that doesn't participate in the election? I'm more political nonsense than that, Mr. Ciric, I haven't heard. But it's all an attempt to justify the fact that Serbian citizens are fed up with your policies. What you could show was you showed for 12 or 16 years of your authority, if we count the AP Vojvodina. Serbian citizens no longer trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2329	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2330	I'm done. Just what Mr. Alexic said. Mr. Aleksic, there is only one change in the political system that will allow you to win, which is to introduce such a political system that will involve abolishing the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2331	Mr. Martinovic, two minutes. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2332	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Please, fellow MPs, chairman, here, day two or three, I don't know, I counted more, we keep listening to who was doing this, who was doing this, and you were doing this, and you were doing it and we're always spinning in some past, we're not sticking to the agenda. If we stick to the agenda, our focus would be on the future. I ask you to respect this point of the Rules of Procedure, to stop this bickering, the pain of listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2333	You are absolutely right, colleague, but you must understand that we had one round of replicas and that we had one broader context of considering different topics and that each of the MPs had the right to declare their position. On the other hand, we'll respect what you said and I suggest we get back to the agenda. You know how, in two minutes, Mr Martinović responded to the replicas that you had, which were held by MP Obradovic, before him by MP Lapčević and I think he answered first of all the questions you asked, as well as colleagues who spoke before you. So we'll go back to the agenda. Comrade Komlensky, I'm sorry, here, you finally have your word. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2334	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have no intention of this time, chairing, allowing me for no reason to be interrupted because it is an obvious effort to, instead of discussing the election of candidates for the newly elected judges, the newly elected deputy prosecutors, this is indeed a matter of extreme politics, for which, unfortunately, my distinguished colleagues on my right are absolutely trying these two days to do so. Their auto projections by the system: "we don't believe you did this right" are completely understandable to me because those who don't believe in themselves, knowing what they would do if they accidentally asked again about the choice of judges and how they would behave, simply right now should be completely ignored and forgotten. It is rude, distinguished colleagues, for future judges and prosecutors to keep one such debate as a seal at the beginning of their careers. No one here has made any serious remarks on the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and on the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors. Those who sold, unloaded Serbia, sold 526 companies, left 92,000 workers on the street, obviously need to cover everything that's clean and for everything that we're trying to do today as clean and fair as possible. Believe me, after this debate, because obviously the end is coming, even though I was absolutely against this idea that the Assembly, or parliament at least for the first election, is not choosing and nominates judges and prosecutors, or deputy prosecutors, after these two days that my position is seriously questioned. We haven't heard anything about the profession here, we haven't heard any opposition, we've just heard an attempt by a politician to defile what's nice and honorable today, and today we see the end. Dear colleagues from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I hope that as soon as possible we will have the opportunity to vote on any future choice of judges, on some future choice of deputy prosecutors, because it is clearly necessary for Serbia, necessary to establish the functionality of the spine of this state, because without a judiciary that is functional, the prosecution which is an effective state cannot exist and normally work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2335	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Nogo, authorised representative of the Dveri parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the guests in front of the Council of the Court and the State Council of Prosecutors, to return to the proposal of these men to be elected for the first time in court. As we mentioned yesterday, as I think, no doubt all the people here have spoken and pointed out, I absolutely think that in the end a consensus here in the Assembly is made that we have a correct proposal in front of us. That proposal, we've heard some regrets, we can make it even more transparent in the future, but at this point in view of this proposal, we have those facts that we're interested in. We've got people's biographies, we've got their movements in the service, we've got reports of relevant colleges, we've got grades on work. So, absolutely everything we should be interested in. There was a problem with the length of the study, there was a problem with the average score during the study. It is one of the criteria, but it could be a decisive criterion, I speak as someone who has graduated from law school and who knows the problem and knows the people who work in the judicial system, so we have to do this condition in advance, when these people first start a relationship, either as trainees, or as judicial associates, and not now when we have to choose them on judicial functions. So, first of all, it's about people who have worked for years. Why does it define us that we are pleased to have people like this before us today, because for years they have worked as co-workers in court or in the prosecution. The fact that there are people, let's say, who have more years, now are first elected to a judicial post is one big scandal and we have to ask the previous systems why these people weren't elected before, because it's really amazing that you have people who at 50 years of age still work as co-workers or advisers in courts, and I guarantee that these people know matter better than any judge of the basic court. We also have some advisors of the Supreme Cassation Court who are truly perfect candidates here in front of us and we have to choose, and that's one undeniable thing and one undeniable fact. Is it among these people, is it, like, the 1,200 that have applied to any people who are better? Well, there's probably better candidates we can't know and that's always going to be. Is there anyone among these people we should choose who's got protection on the political line? Probably, yeah. Is there anyone who's been pushed thanks to some family ties? Probably, yeah. We can't know at this point, and what's probably possible is that we don't vote and we don't support these people. I repeat, if this is the principle that justice is filled with young people coming from the judiciary itself, it's something to praise. We have criticised on several occasions the Judicial Academy and it is a good thing that there are not many members of the Judicial Academy among these proposals that have not been a practice before, because the Judicial Academy is one quasi institution that needs to create a party judiciary. We call on the competent authorities to do everything possible to remove this institution because it is not necessary. She's really unnecessary and misconceived. We've opened each other up a series of questions. So, what concerns us and what we hope the future judges will not do, which is the situation in the Serbian judiciary. Why are we worried? Why do we apriors say, there's one big problem. Because the judiciary has always been exposed to the influence of politics. Just before, an opposition MP, for example, mentioned why a large number of prosecutors are in control. Well, that's why they don't want to pick prosecutors, keep them on DVD so they can manipulate and influence them more easily. We should point to that problem. You know, some judge and some prosecutor who gives in to political pressure, so let's do it as a legislative authority to make it easier for him to resist that pressure. Not everyone, not all judges, not all prosecutors brave enough. We, besides a professional judiciary, a worthy judiciary, must also have a brave judiciary. I think it's a major lack of justice, and here's a gentleman from the Justice Department who would have to deal with it, because I think the Serbian judiciary lacks courage. There are few brave judges, few brave prosecutors, and that must be said clearly. We made one argument, I am happy once again that the other opposition MPs also joined our claim and our thesis and I would remind the ruling parties, their answer was – ask Alexander Vukic. I personally asked Alexander Vukic here in this room when he was last, what about 650 judges who joined the SNS and were not re-elected. I agree with the answer I got. They weren't judges at that time, when they returned to the judges' office, what we'll do in the meantime. Why don't you show us the papers that 650 people got. I'm saying that there aren't any of these papers, that you don't have 650 prints, and what else is there to manipulate and blackmail these people? I'm saying this not to accuse these people, but to help these people be independent. Let the authorized person come out, in this case the president of your party, and let him say, they've stopped with the team and the team membership, they're being cancelled. No one can make a stay at the judge's post by being members of a particular political party at that time of return, in this case the SNS. And, no problem, problem solved. But we have concrete evidence for 650 people in the judiciary. It is a public secret that all Serbian court presidents must be members of the SNS, such as the public secret, we point out again, that in addition to the influence of political parties, you know, you have judges who have a membership card and SPS and DS and SNS and they have a hell of a life. How do we make these judges independent? I mentioned yesterday, judges must be responsible for their work. So, besides courage, they have to respond, so we keep mentioning how much we pay, how much Serbia is obliged to pay for irregularities in work, say, people who have been in custody for quite a long time, and then after two, three years, it turns out that people are innocent. Let's see why it doesn't match a specific prosecutor or a concrete judge, so let's see how many percent, the verdicts that have been confirmed, so let's see how many who's had the indictments that have been successfully made, and then we'll do the evaluation of that work. Look, we choose a judge, and he is for the rest of his life, but that doesn't mean he's completely irresponsible. So there must be a responsibility. The responsibility is to help the judges themselves and the prosecutors themselves. Because when someone from the executive office calls you, and you know you can answer, you'll say, "I'm sorry, buddy, I'm not gonna do it, 'cause it's more of a shame than the benefit of keeping that court office or the prosecution office." I have to look back when we talk about that average rating that the judiciary and the prosecution should be elite. I agree, but then we have to make them elite, because their current material status and their current social status is absolutely not so. Look, they're not well-paid enough, so I'm not saying that people who work in courts are miserablely paid, and they're not judges and prosecutors. So, who works in the judiciary. They are not paid as they should and as they deserve, and their social reputation is not high enough, and the political pressures are really high. So believe that many people who graduate from college legally with a high average, as you say, are not their first choice of justice, not their court or prosecution. We must make it truly one of the most honorable and worthy functions, but let's raise that position of judges and prosecutors. It's the easiest thing to criticise judges and prosecutors. What we did to make them better, that is, to give them better conditions. Look, it's not just political parties affecting the judiciary. I don't know, there's a gentleman out there who's been arguing on this matter with us, a representative of the ruling party has been authorized here. So, we've indicated that we have a major problem influencing foreign embassies, above all the United States and Germany, on the judiciary, watch out for the judiciary. In his time, he was a certain Mr. Sam Nazaro, a representative of the US Department of Justice, and here he was long seated in Belgrade, at their embassy. Many of you can agree with me in the O.R., and now they're the ruling majority, what the influence of this man on the judiciary was. I'm sorry that Mr. Martinovic is not here, so let's just say, to mention only one case of his fellow Romanian citizen, who was innocent in prison for 11 years, and one other case. I'm surprised that the president of this parliamentary group didn't, for example, refer to the case after returning from The Hague. Eleven years, the only reason a man was in prison was because it was the wish of the American Embassy. We can talk about that case when the time comes. So you've got a lot of interference from foreign embassies and you know it well. You know well who gave the money, say, to take care of the Court of Justice, to take care of the District Court then in Belgrade, etc. So it's not just you from the SNS at this point on the judiciary, you're affecting a lot, not specifically you MPs, you have no connection with it, you know exactly one clan of power that can affect the Serbian judiciary, and we'll talk about them, but they affect others. They're affecting, say, foreign embassies. But we have another problem. Why is Serbia's judiciary not independent? It's not independent because, besides these factors, certain interests of capital can be affected. Again, I repeat, there is still no response and no reaction, no reaction from the authorities, no reaction from even the professional public, to VIP contracts that courts have with business banks. I really don't know, say, how much the Piraeus Bank cost to pay all the media in Serbia not to publish that big scandal. They probably had to pay a lot of advertising in all the media, so they wouldn't announce a big-scale scandal. If we were in an orderly state, it would be on all the front pages, if one bank had exclusive contracts with the courts, which are in charge of the proceedings it has. So, anyone who sues the Piraeus Bank, for example, is one of the main credit issuers in the Swiss francs, anyone who sued her, he comes to the judges who have probably VIP treatment. Let's move on. This bank, for example, how does it affect the prosecution's work? We can only mention one case. For example, there is, we handed over these evidences and documents and ministerial justice and to the Prime Minister, that they falsified various documents, including bank guarantees, forged in two cases, for two companies, where they tried to gain huge illegal property benefits. In a court case, a litigator, it was found that such a guarantee was a falsification, but two and a half years later the D.A. held the case in a drawer until it started to become obsolete. Why and how? That's all he can do in Serbia. Where's the responsibility? Here, we'll ask the Ministerial Justice and we'll demand that this case be investigated to the end. It's the Piraeus Bank again. It's not the only Pireus bank. A moment ago, my colleague Obradovic mentioned "Diners". Only this year can Daeners issue cards, and they have been doing so for many years and the prosecution has acted as some kind of private enforcer. Let's move on. It's not just the judiciary, you know, this is a good thing, we pick judges who come from the profession itself. That's how you build a legal consciousness. So far, we've been trying to build legal consciousness by prescribing the law and then we have a whole set of criminal laws. If we want to take care of the judiciary, why don't we change those laws? So, a number of laws governing the matter of the judiciary, from the Criminal Code, to the Law of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Procedure, to the rules governing the position and work of the courts and the prosecution itself. That should be changed, and so far we've been cheating. That's not how legal consciousness was built, and you need to know that. Ladies and gentlemen, I've got about 30 seconds left, so I'd like to bring the presidency to an end. This is an extremely important topic and this is an extremely important thing, one branch of government. I ask you to take things more seriously in the future and do everything possible to get these changes into some procedure, because it will be better for all of us, not just for the citizens of Serbia, but for all political parties, to live in a better and more orderly society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2337	Thank you. We're moving on. The word is by Sandra Kulezic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2338	Dear People's MPs, here, after today's discussion, first of all, let me tell you that I have listened carefully to each of the discussions in this house on the subject of electing public prosecutor, or judicial functions. In fact, it should be the subject of this discussion according to the agenda, but unfortunately, I have to say that most of the discussions were actually a story of something else, of day-political issues or of political topics at all, and the judiciary, or the choice of legal holders, was in some way a cover or beginning of that story. That's probably why the situation in the judiciary, among other things, and that's why it's like this. As far as these discussions are concerned, I won't look back on them. And as for what I'm interested in as a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors, these are objections to our proposal, in the very form of a proposal to elect candidates for a public prosecutor's office. There were, above all, objections related to data that do not exist in the proposal, concerning the average rating and years of study of candidates. When it comes to selecting a deputy prosecutor for the first office, here, I will remind you once again, although I have mentioned it in the opening statement, DVT has adopted a regulation on the selection of public prosecutor's office, i.e. all categories of public prosecutor's office. This is the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence, dignity of candidates in the process of proposing and selecting public prosecutors. A bit of a rogue name, but that rule contains all the rules on how any category of candidates applying to competitions for deputy attorneys is elected. For any of these categories, the study length criterion and the average rating in this Regulation do not exist. So that question was not relevant to the proposal of these candidates, and therefore, according to DVT as a proposing, there was no reason for these data to be found in the biographies of these candidates. The criteria for selecting a public prosecutor's candidate to the first election are written and oral tests and this test was conducted by the commissions I also talked about in the opening part. I see there's been some dilemma about what these commissions are doing, how they're actually stabbing everything else. I'll try to explain it to you now. Maybe I could have done it sooner, but I thought you were familiar with it. So criteria are expertise, training and dignity. The criteria are expressed in criteria, and these criteria are assessed through a written test and oral test. The written test is propped with a maximum of 50 points and it involves theoretical issues in the area of criminal law, and the oral test implies an analysis of the case, but in addition to the analysis of the case in a direct conversation with the candidate, it is practically determined by its communication skills, the skills of explaining the legal views, professional integrity and itself an analysis of case theory. Here we have candidates who, as I stated in the opening statement, some of them worked for five and ten years as expert associates, i.e. prosecutorial and judicial assistants. There's no point in a person who has to be elected to a public prosecutor's office and who has previously done a public prosecutor's job just couldn't sign the act or officially appear in some criminal acts, as prescribed by the CAP, there's no point in asking that person what your average grade is in college, or asking her how many years you've studied. We need to see how this man does his job, does he know if he's done what he's done so far, done what he's got to do, and whether he'll be able to do the job of a deputy public prosecutor in the future. This was evaluated by DVT through these two criteria, i.e. through these two written and oral tests. The written test was conducted by candidates who were not from the ranks of prosecutor's assistants or who were from the ranks of the prosecutor's assistants but who were not in the post long enough. Therefore, the condition is that a written test is not passed, that the candidate is working for more than three years on the affairs of the prosecutor's assistant, or that it is about a candidate who has completed the judicial academy or that it is about a judge who is currently applying to the candidate for the election of a public prosecutor, who would have chosen for the first time in that case. In these cases, candidates do not take a written test, but only a oral test that is practically an analysis of the case and an analysis of all the skills that are relevant to the future public prosecutor's office. One of the remarks seemed to me to be the very process of choice, and it was about transparency, or someone here claimed that the procedure was non-transparent. In my opening statement, I pointed out that at the end of the process, evaluations were collected for all candidates from all committees, because you have no other way. If you have three categories of participants who are being evaluated differently, one commission must eventually appear which will be on the roof, so to speak, which will connect all these candidates to one ranking list. That rank list was made. The ranking list was published on the State's Council of Prosecutors' advertising board. The ranking list was available to candidates, they could see it, put objections to it, and, as I stated in the opening statement, there were no objections to the ranking list. It's about the procedure. I don't think there were any more issues on the subject. I had one specific question from MP Martinovic, concerning the particular name we proposed. I don't know if there's any point in answering that question, since he's gone, but it's because of the person mentioned. It's about candidate Lazovic Lazar. I think I should say why the state council and this candidate have proposed a choice amongst others. So, exactly what MP Martinovic said. This is one of the candidates who doesn't have the maximum number of points. There are three or four other candidates who don't have the maximum number of points that are proposed here. For what? Because it's not just numbers that people can show in exam moments and anything else. We've been here all day talking about the integrity of the legal office holders, judges and prosecutors, and we all agree it's a key thing. Of course, it's also a key skill, but it's something to learn. Integrity is something a man carries or does not carry with him. When it comes to this candidate, integrity was the crucial category that defined him, regardless of the fact that he didn't have the maximum number of points. Therefore, it is a candidate who as a future candidate for the election as deputy prosecutor, in the period when he works as a prosecutor's assistant, initiates an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the law and, according to its initiatives, to determine the violation of constitutionality and amendments to those laws. We talked about how the government generally refers to the holders of judicial functions and how certain things are seen as a threat, or fear by future holders of judicial functions, different branches of government. What's important in this story, about Lazar Lazovic, is that this man had the courage to submit a legal initiative in waiting for his future election and thus to highlight himself as someone who wasn't exactly framed in some standards. That is why we believe that this person has a higher dose of integrity and that we believe that he should have been proposed as a candidate, regardless of the fact that he did not have a maximum number of points on the exams. One more thing for colleagues mentioned in the first discussion today, and regarding years of study which, once again, I point out, are not a criteria for choice. There were comments that they studied for 27 years and 25 years. So, I want to believe it's about the lapus. It's about these people studying up to 25 or 27 years old. The candidates who have studied so many years in our proposal are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2339	Thank you. The word is Miroljub Tomic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2340	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are for two days in this highest assembly building, listening to discussions, questions, controversy about this item of the agenda and the topic that was on the agenda, as the colleague said, and some topics that may not have been quite on the agenda. Anyway, I'm always glad when I come to this assembly home and I hear questions about what we're here for, and that's proposing a candidate for the first choice of judges. By asking such questions and answers as a representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, we will only make this election procedure more clear to you judges, on the one hand, and to the citizens, if they listen and watch this television broadcast. It was one of the questions that has often been mentioned here, and this is the question – how is it that for individual judicial functions, for the choice of the first judicial office, some candidates who have fewer grades than the other are proposed. Certain provisions of the Decision laying down criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents have been mentioned, but are mentioned in part whenever those provisions are mentioned. No one wanted to mention Article 1 which said that, in addition to the conditions for working in the state authorities, in addition to the completed law school, passed judicial examinations and work experience after a legal examination, they must also meet the requirements for choice in terms of expertise, competence and dignity. It's on one side. On the other hand, the High Council of the Court proposes candidates not only on the basis of this 2009 decision, but also on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges which speak of all criteria and which parameters should be taken into account. When it comes to the decision itself and when it comes to expertise, one of the criteria is the average rating in studies, length of study, but also the assessment of work. As far as the labour assessment is concerned, it is said that the labour assessment measured the practical knowledge of the candidate according to the tasks the candidate conducts after the judicial examination has been passed. When it comes to training, which otherwise involves skills that enable the effective application of specific legal skills in solving certain court cases, it is said that competence is conditioned by good knowledge of material and procedural law, knowledge of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, awareness of the need to study cases, skills, the ability of analytical and synthetic opinions, judgment by its own understanding, clear expression and exemplary literacy, diligence, self-control, meaning of collegiate cooperation and culture of conduct. The capacity to perform the judge's office, the judge's assistant, and you've seen, ladies and gentlemen, that the highest number of candidates proposed by the High Council of Justice are actually judicial assistants. So, people who started their career in courts, where they very often volunteered, worked without compensation for two years, then worked hard to pass a judicial exam, worked long as judicial assistants, defined themselves for one career work, career advancement, which is the intensity of all of us that this kind of progress is taking place and happening in the judiciary itself. When it comes to the capacity to perform the judicial function of lawyers, or those who do not come directly from the judiciary, and were of course such, and we have safely taken care of them, the training was determined on the basis of the evaluation of their work and the opinion of the Bar Association in which the lawyer was registered, or the opinion was principled when the candidate was a legal intern. Otherwise, candidate training for the exercise of the judicial post was also appreciated on the basis of the results of talks with the candidates reported. I repeat what I said in the opening statement. I'm not going to talk about these large numbers of candidates reported, how many days, or months, we've worked and talked to these candidates. But the law says, that is, the rules say that it is necessary to form a commission, and I am sure that we all here also agree that it is not the same when we talk about candidates based on figures, figures or some of the descriptive things we see on paper, that a completely different picture is obtained when we take all of this together, when we sum it up together, but we also have a candidate in front of us to talk about his work so far, with which we talk about his knowledge of certain things in the judiciary and the work he's been dealing with for a number of years and when we have a candidate who gives us his vision of future work in the judiciary and his vision of how he's going to perform this significant judicial function. So, I am talking about the parameters and criteria that are important for selecting judges to the first judicial office, in order to explain them to you, too, the honourable MPs and those who listen to this transfer, how many of these parameters should be seen as having a certain decision to present the proposal in order to consider this proposal to be discussed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we should talk about dignity. The VSS itself, i.e. the VSS Commission, has taken into account the dignity of the candidates in accordance with the provision of Article 9 of this Decision, which is assessed on the basis of the opinion of the judge, i.e. the majority and session of the judicial department in which the judicial assistant is appointed. This opinion of the senior judge, the department in which the judge's assistant, or expert associate, has been deployed, but not only the opinion of the judge's sitting, but also the opinion of the judge of the institution's senior court, I also believe that we will all agree is very important. Because who better, better quality and more secure to evaluate one candidate than those who are his principals, those who are his mentors, so judges who have long-term experience, primarily I think about the judges of the VCC, the Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal and the Court of First Instance, and who know well which of the candidates and how they do business in a particular judicial department, know how much judgment he's done, know his relationship with the business, starting with whether he's coming in time to work, whether he's safe and responsiblely doing the jobs that are being put before him. Whether these decisions are of quality, what is very significant, and whether they can expect that the next day, if the candidate is elected to a judicial office, he will be able to dissipate them with a significant part of the work, given that he will work with them in the same collective. So, very important for determining who will be the VSS proposal, or who will be elected to the assembly tomorrow. The example works, so I can explain this to you that I'm going to give you two examples. An example of one or an example of the first, a candidate who does not have the highest rating, not to be confused, otherwise in his proposals for this House of Commons, he provided a detailed analysis of everyone's work starting with years of study, starting with what average grade he had, starting with which jobs he did specifically and in what period, wanting to make this procedure transparent not only, but to provide you with all the relevant and necessary information so that you, as MPs of the Republic Parliament, have enough elements to decide our proposals. So, a candidate who was born in 1973, studies at the Law Faculty ended in 2003. So we have a candidate from whose end of law school it's been 13 years, which is a very relevant number, I believe you'll agree. The traineeship was carried out in the District Court. First, he worked as a judicial intern, a volunteer, and then established a working relationship at the place of the judicial intern, where he performed all the tasks provided for in the training program of the judicial trainees. The judicial exam was passed on 27 September 2008. So we have a candidate who, from the moment he passed the judicial exam, has eight years as a judge's assistant and two years before that, five more years as an intern, or judicial intern, volunteer. Is it a bit of an eight-year internship after a legal trial? He later established a working relationship as a judicial assistant at the District Court until 31 December 2009. Since the beginning of his work in this workplace, he has been involved in preparation, referencing, making decisions of the Second Grade Criminal Council, attended a number of seminars and trainings aimed at education in the area of primarily criminal and civil law. Since the first of February 2010, he has founded a working relationship in the appeals court, at the post of judicial assistant, first on a specific, then on indefinite time in calling a judicial associate. The name of the senior judicial associate was obtained on September 1st 2011. I'm just doing a little depression to make a cut, an analysis of this candidate. So, one full career advance, he's gone through all the instances that one judicial assistant needs to go through to even consider being elected. He has participated in various judicial visits, speaks several foreign languages and, in the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Appeal, the candidate fulfils all the conditions prescribed by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of the judge and president of the courts. So those decisions I just made to the segments, or certain members here, I've told you and presented to you. Therefore, the VSS particularly had in mind that the candidate had received great support for the election by the judges of the Court of Appeal, because of the presence of 28 judges of the Court of Appeal, who pleaded on candidates who applied for an ad for the election of judges, this candidate received 27 votes. So we have a court that's almost at the top of the scale, right behind the VCS, a court where judges who have 30, 35, close to 40 years and at the session of these judges, this 28-judge candidate got 27 votes. Is there any better confirmation that this is a good candidate, besides all the things I've listed and brought here before you honourable MPs, or we'll say – this candidate, during the course of his studies which he normally finished 15 years ago, had a low average and we'll never choose him. On the contrary, the VSS assessed on the basis of all these parameters, criteria, in general, when it came to this candidate and came to the suggestion that this candidate was the person who was to be elected as a judge, leaving an extremely good impression about getting a high grade in the discussion with the commission formed by the VSS. An example of two short-term candidates, born in 1979, completed their basic studies at Law School, with an extremely high average. As an intern, she has worked in a law firm since September 2006, with her practice at the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade since September 2008, where she has drawn up draft court decisions in civil and criminal matter. The judicial exam was passed in 2010 and until March 2010, she worked in the law firm as an intern with a passed exam. In March 2010, she was admitted to work for a certain time at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, and in October of the same year she was admitted to a working relationship indefinitely to the job of a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate. She was assigned to the Leaven Department in which she acted on her own, conducted discussions, and made decisions on inheritance. So, right comparison, we have one candidate who later graduated from college, one candidate who's been here for a long time, but both candidates passed a successful and judicial exam, working on these jobs that I've just told here. In July 2011, taken over by the Court of Appeal, where a civil department was deployed in the council in which the Secretary of the Council's duties was held, prepares and independently refers the cases to the council sessions and drafts second-degree civil decisions. Why am I reading this in detail? For the reason that there were objections that the High Council of the Judiciary had only made proposals, and had not made sufficient arguments, or had not given enough what is important and needed for one candidate to be able to talk about his choice or non-election. For the results of the work achieved in 2012, 2013 and 2014 it is assessed by the evaluation – in particular it stands out. I can tell you and those who listen to this transmission that the VSS has not proposed any candidate who has not had in the previous three years the most grades related to his work, which are estimates – is particularly said. One of the questions that has been raised here is the suspicion of the election process as one of the judges recently elected by the Assembly, and a certain criminal procedure has been initiated on a proposal from the VSS. First of all, as far as criminal proceedings are concerned, neither I nor anyone else has the right to speak at all about an object that is in progress and something that I'm not going to talk about. The High Council of the judiciary is not Wanga, so he's thinking about how the candidate who is proposed will eventually be elected by the VSS to behave after a year, two, three, five or 10, so that someone should be held accountable, as has been said here. The High Council of the Judiciary is considering the quality of the candidates and all that is important and relevant to that candidate at the moment when he decides, when they decide on a proposal to be forwarded to the Assembly, I am talking about elections to the first judicial office and what the candidate did until then in his career...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2341	We're gonna have to take a break from ten minutes. We'll take a break of ten minutes. Obviously, we have certain technical problems. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is Miroljub Tomic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2343	We had a small break because there was a problem in these microphones, that is, in this technique, which, of course, will not be a problem for this session about selecting judges at the first judge's office to be successfully completed, on the one hand, when it comes to technicals, and on the other hand, to be content, i.e. to essentially select the best and most qualitative candidates. So, just before, I was talking about that the High Judicial Council had all those parameters that, according to the assessment of the High Council of the judiciary, were in line with the provisions of the Law on Judges, that is, in accordance with this decision which regulates these issues and proposed these candidates, or answered some questions. One of the questions was why some candidates who were not young were proposed, under the quote, since the proposal said that we were choosing young people, perspectives, etc., people. Most of the candidates we've proposed are people who are 35, some 40, some over the years. Of course, those who have many years of life, those who have many years of standing as judicial assistants, or experts in a particular area, are sure to meet these other criteria and if they have been good at other relationships, when it comes to the results of work, certainly that the fact that they have a certain number of years is not a distraction, but it can be said that this represents plus in terms of a certain experience. Here, to slowly, what he says, we end this discussion today, and I end this exhibition of mine, but just to point to a few more things, since there's been a lot of talk here about the division of power, about the independence of the judiciary, about these and how important issues that are very often discussed and discussed. When talking about the independence of the judiciary, both me and all of us judges, they often ask what it is and what it looks like to an independent judiciary, i.e. professionally, objectively and independent justice. I always answer the same thing, what I'm about to say here, in this assembly hall, which is that the judiciary is as professional and independent as it is professional and independent as any legal person. The creator of the division of the government of Monteskje said that the judiciary as a branch of government had no other way to manifest this power, but through the expertise and assurance of its judgments, and that independence, apart from other attributes, implies a fundamental understanding of all in society that justice as a branch of government should be independent. I am convinced that all of us here essentially want the judiciary to be more professional, more quality and independent, and while we are talking about the candidates we have proposed, I am convinced that they are good candidates and that tomorrow, in their future work, each of them will, of course, contribute to their work and their judgments to make the judiciary more quality, more up-to-date, more professional, or independent. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2344	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 2 to 11 of the agenda. I thank our guests, the representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. We're going back to work. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately apply for a word with the order of Members of Parliament, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, SDA Sandzak, want the word? He's not there. No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We don't have a list of registered MPs. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Now we're taking a break. With the work we continue at 6 p.m., discussing the details of the 1st item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2345	Dear MPs, you have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of Bosko Obradović, Zoran Zivkovic, together Radoslav Milojic and Dejan Nikolic, together with Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2346	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in developed EU countries, half of the budget revenues belong to local self-government, in developed European countries we hope to continue to seek, while the situation in Serbia is very different. In Serbia, only 11.86% of budget revenues combined with municipalities and cities and AP Vojvodina, nine times lower than the level of funds received by the central level of government. Dear friends, as we are doing well just yesterday, the IMF, which you have so called upon, said that Serbia is a leader in the region, but a leader in the region at the unemployment rate that exceeded 20%. Dear friends, by 4.8 billion, which you take away from municipalities and cities directly, and indirectly to the citizens of Serbia, you could build 430 kindergartens, you could build 450km of asphalt for which many in the country is crying today. I hope that you will withdraw these amendments so that municipalities and cities can function smoothly, and they are in an extremely difficult situation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2347	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2348	Thank you very much. With the arguments my predecessor made, I think I need to repeat it again, I'm going to use five minutes on which I have the right, basic arguments. Since there are only two members here, then it is practically an explanation for the first member, which is that the proposed changes to the law continue the process of centralization of the state and creating conditions that local self-government cannot do their job. The amendment's refusal argument that in 2011, some balance was disrupted, so that this bill on amendments to the law returns that balance, probably in some resonance, is very interesting. You're about to explain what this was all about in 2011. What is God's law, physical, chemical, sociological, social, philosophical, disturbed in 2011? The fact that local self-governments then got some money for those powers they have, or it was disturbed that as until then, and now you want to return it, or it's already partially returned, there's only one half-block that determines what it takes in Serbia, from which friend of the Arabs should be given a free country for some "Belgrade on water", to pave this or that street in some city or town in Serbia, or what will be put into the programme of the Centre for Culture in Srlig, which is praised here or in Crno Trava, or what will be done with children's protection in this or that city. The competencies of local self-government should be natural. This is what local self-government with its potential for its citizens should organize, implement in the best possible way. So much praised Srlig, with all due respect to his colleagues, I know this community, it's grief and misery, but ask the people of that community what they have there, what local self-government offers them. Is that where the streets are washed? Did you check that out? Do they have any cultural content? What's the level of health care? What's the level of education? What is the level of anything these citizens expect from local self-government or state? Maybe a birth certificate, maybe a wedding dress, probably a copy of the death certificate, but nothing through it. It's a hibernation. Unfortunately, the municipality, like many other municipalities in Serbia, is in absolute hibernation, with no chance of any of the citizens living in the 21st century on Europe's territory. Those criteria that there are very few employees are very good. Just, let's make it one serious thing. When I entered the Nish City Assembly in 1997, there were 830 employees. When I got out four years later, there were 813 employees. Today there are 2,300 employees. It has nothing to do with the percentage of income tax on citizens, on salaries, but it has to do with many other bahanals that are not exclusive to today's ruling parties, but also some others, but it is not solved by further reducing their resources. I've already said, two or three percent, it says 1.9%, two and a half percent, you think that's small? Well, that's the culture budget for all of Serbia, including information, for all of Serbia. All that comes from the central culture budget is barely two percent. A state without culture, a state without education, i.e. There should be, of course, but it's hardly an excuse to exist. When they told Churchill in 1941 that it cost a lot to protect the national museum, the gallery and everything that Britain has and that that money would be better for another place, for the front or I don't know what, he said – if we don't keep it, why are we fighting a war? That's the point. With this reduction, the Serbian government has, as a consequence of the poor negotiations with the IMF, which you, the minister, have not led but some others, but you are now supporting these poor negotiations, led to the suspension of funds in Serbia for local self-government for anything that has to do with culture. I've been using two minutes for the amendment. Does it make sense to have high goals, to be a leader in the region, to join the EU, to be an example left and right, if we don't have a white dinar for culture and education in local self-government? In one of his major historic missions, the Prime Minister said he would visit all the toilets in Serbia. Obviously, he didn't do it, although it was really one high goal. Otherwise, if he had done, he would have known that out of these 39 million, as much as it is now being reduced to local self-government in Serbia, all public toilets could have been solved, and in institutions of culture, education, health and railway stations and everything. That would be one step forward. Not to boast about Tito's stripes, not to boast about the end of the roads that began seven, eight, fifteen years ago, but to do something that someone might swear and say -- here, I am famous for that, this Prime Minister, which I have settled the hygiene issue in Serbia. No, but you are now creating even more difficult conditions for survival and in such difficult conditions. Therefore, I ask you to read once again your proposal to amend the Law and not be guilty of the bad negotiations that someone has done before. Once again, do not defend yourself with the IMF, do not salute and kneel before them, but negotiate with them, and if bad negotiations are made, change negotiators, but do not destroy local self-government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2349	Thank you. Proposer Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2350	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of course there are only two words in our amendment "to be deleted", for the reason we believe that this amendment and addition of the Law is harmful to the interests of local self-government in Serbia. They repeat what I think is the two central arguments that speak of the dishonesty of your motivation with which you bring this law. The first is that your official excuse is that you actually want to put order into those local self-governments that are purposelessly spending their resources. Not all local self-governments in Serbia and those who are unintendedly spending money, and all of you are equally punished by subtracting from the local budget. So you punish both the successful and the unsuccessful and the arrogant and the responsible. That's proof that that's not your real motive. Secondly, if you really wanted to be fair to local self-government, you would offer in this law a guarantee that these funds you take will be returned to local self-government based on their quality projects that will be proposed to the Republic government. There are no guarantees here, from which I conclude that the point is this law, i.e. These legal changes, that we all end up at the level of local self-government should address Alexander Vukic and ask him for our money and ask him to give us our money back to our local self-government and that then we are all actually going to give Alexander Vukic to Belgrade, that we have to depend on every project on him, that he, as a great sultan and Belgrade cabadia, actually approves this project – he can in this city, in this city, not everything in Serbia depends on his will. Madam Chairman, can I now use the rest of my time as chief of staff or later? Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2351	You can use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2352	Thank you. So if it was an idea, then you should have said so. So, we think that the money in Serbia should be available to Alexander Vucic, and all of you who want to have any project at the level of local self-government ask Vukic to give you these projects and give you your money, which is usually followed by local self-governments, and then it would be logical why you pass this law. Now, there's no other explanation, or you're actually serving the interests of the IMF, who ordered you to do these legal changes, and you don't really ask yourself anything, so that's fair enough to say it. Simply, we're not wondering, the IMF has ordered this, we have to, we follow all IMF orders because Alexander Vukic himself, to quote it again, said it – I can't spend any money in Serbia without the IMF's permission. That's fair. I think that's fair. So, he's, man, well admitted that he can't function on his own, that he doesn't have independence, that he depends on the IMF and that the actual functioning of his government is directly dependent on the arrangement with the IMF. Then at least we know that Serbia is not managed by even Aleksandar Vucic, although it seems that he manages everything and everything, but actually has a real, colonial, Serbian manager, and that is the IMF, whose Alexander Vukic is some sort of, let's say, executive director in Serbia. That would also be fairer and then we at the level of local self-government would know why we have this kind of legal changes. Of course, that's where we come up with the key question, which is why we think this amendment should erase this idea of yours, which is – what will happen to the budgets of local self-government after the withdrawal, robbery, kidnapping or whatever we call this theft of our local rights by the republican government? It's going to happen that somehow that budget needs to be compensated. Now, in her statements, the Minister has offered some beautiful ideas to make up for it, but I don't see, Madam Minister, why didn't you encourage it to be done somehow? To solve the grey area of business, to solve, for example, better tax collection, or to list all non-listed taxpayers, to initiate some quality projects that will then be financed by the republican budget. All of this can be done beyond denying this money to local self-government. So, you have other mechanisms, other legal changes to control the budgets of local self-government, how you're going to punish those responsible for purposeless budget spending, how you're going to punish those who have employment across certain borders and who have destroyed certain budgets and certain local self-governments. You solve that with other solutions, if someone mismanages some local self-government. Don't punish them by taking money from the local budget. Of course, the most original move to resort to local self-government will be an additional increase in property taxes, which is the easiest for them, or for some other taxis or other burdens for citizens. It will be the easiest way to fill the revenue side of the budget. You say, "Well, you can do it." Or some mayors and presidents of municipalities, and even Mayor Cačka, I hear, comment – now we will do it from accelerated economic development, from new employment, and from all that we will fill the budget. So who's stopping you from doing it and filling your budget and past this reduction? So don't cut our money for us. Leave us our money to invest in our projects. We at the level of local self-government know best what to do with our money, from the income tax that we make at the level of our local self-government. There's no reason to ask Alexander Wolfie about that. If he spends unnecessarily, if he has some corruption, if someone's doing bad, find a way to punish it and not allow it. Don't punish those who do what's right. The situation is very simple. If you are now taking from our local budgets, we will not be able to perform a certain function that we should do as a local self-government – whether it is a subsidy for farmers, whether it is a social policy and aid to socially endangered categories of the population, whether it is some support for the birth of young married couples. So for that amount of money you're taking from us, we won't be able to function as local self-government. Simple. We're just going to have a budget so much smaller and we're going to be able to allocate less resources for what we've been doing so far. It's on a long stick, and that's the problem, if we're going to solve a gray zone, whether we're going to solve taxpayers that aren't registered, whether we're going to get projects from the government and when we apply to the government. It will depend on the will of one man. So I don't want a local self-government in Serbia to depend on the will of a man. I understand that in all elections local in Serbia, the list bearer was Aleksandar Vukic, but it is not possible for him to be mayor and president of the municipalities of all local self-government in Serbia. I mean, he has that capacity, it's not controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2353	Ambassador, I know you can talk a lot about Alexander Wolf, but you need to talk about the amendment. This is a discussion of details, our first discussion of details. So they wanted to -- they didn't want to, they had to talk about the amendment. And I see you respect and follow everything, and that's very nice, but you have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2354	The Honorable Chairman, but I was just about to praise the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2355	Great, but according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2356	That he has the capacity to be mayor and president of the municipalities. Okay. So, to conclude, there is no reason for you from Belgrade, i.e. from the Republic government, you take our local money. There's no reason for you to put your hand in our pocket. And especially why is there no reason? Because you boast that your republican budget is stable, that the budget is in surplus. By the way, speaking of that surplus, it's complete nonsense to brag about the surplus because you're simply not a private company that needs to have a surplus. You need to perform the function of which you are elected and spend those resources for what this people need, not leave any surplus. So what matters here is, is your budget relatively stable? Yes, it is. So what are you taking our money from the bar? Therefore, I think it would be correct to accept this amendment of ours, to erase these wrong, harmful and local self-governments of a catastrophic initiative and simply accept the idea that this law should go back to work, to open up a big public debate, to seize the problem of functioning local self-government in the right way, not just by taking money from local self-government. That's why you haven't solved anything, Madam Minister, at the bar, from the problems of local self-government in operation. Nothing, you just took our money. You offer us a concrete solution to the functioning of local self-government, it's your job, it's the easiest thing to take our money, and then you have our money and you share who you want in Serbia. So I think that all the reasons stand aside to accept this amendment proposed by the Dverry parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2357	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic who did not join the RIK session and attack and call people thieves, because he did not like the result, because one colleague who is now an MP did not like the result of the elections. Someone around here keeps talking about someone taking money away from someone. Now, I can tell Mrs. President that whoever's talking has no idea about the Budget Law or the Budgetary System Act, or the transferable, or the trusted powers of local self-government. As far as I know, the amount of the income tax was not determined by local self-government, but by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and entrusted that part of its income to local self-governments, which were not in a period where the SNS was not in charge of these funds and entrusted its cities and municipalities and citizens. Another question arises – why do the presidents of the municipality and the mayors not complain about this law? Because they can't develop their municipalities with the roads you've left us. They can't develop and bring in the investors with the stripes we have. I can't. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2359	Another promoter has the word Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2360	Thank you, I'll waste my time as authorized. In the first day of the debate, we said our arguments why we believe that this law should not be adopted and that it should not be downloaded, that is, to reduce income from taxes on earnings, cities and municipalities in Serbia. But by listening to the debate on the bill, I have come to a few conclusions, and these conclusions show arguments that I have listened carefully to from the promoter and I have listened from the ruling majority MPs. I'm going to try one of those conclusions again now. So, the first conclusion is that the state wants to take funds from municipalities and cities in Serbia, part of the income tax, and then give it back to municipalities for credit and similarity. What does that mean? This means that we are entering further centralization, we are entering into strengthening political power through institutional corruption, we are giving the possibility that individuals in government can be similar to them, or those who do not have the ability to manage their cities normally without the help of the state with their incomes and municipalities. We had a chance, and I was talking about it on the first day, to see it for the past few years, on the case of the town of Leskovec, on the case of the town of Nis, on the case of the town of Novi Sad, on the case of the town of Kragujevac, where hundreds of millions from the budget reserve are, and on behalf of the current liquidity transferred to these cities and municipalities. The question arises whether we punish the citizens of those municipalities that did domestic business, which had no blocked accounts, which do not have extra employees in their administration, they did not even ask for funds and did not receive those funds or if they were given them, they were given in far less than they were given those who were politically, partically similar. So, with that argument and the conclusion that the state is returning money to share it later, we are really going towards further centralization, not as the minister was saying decentralisation for which we should all stand. The second conclusion, which I've drawn, is to subtract funds from the units of local self-government, and then advise them on how to replace those funds that have been taken from them. Now, the question arises whether there are equal conditions in all units of local self-government to replace these funds. Those larger cities, better positioned, with smaller regional differences may also make it easier to bring in an investor who will hire more people, who will pay more taxes, and thus replace it. There is a question of whether there is a willingness of cities and municipalities to update property tax bases or whether it is easier for them to simply raise and change the rate, i.e. the basis of the tax on property. Those municipalities and cities that have already done so can no longer build it. For example, in Triestenik, we updated the base in 2013, carried out the list, six months were done by people from the National Employment Service and executed the list and created a new and updated property tax base. So we don't have the space to replace those revenues anymore. There are other cities and municipalities, and you yourself mentioned, eastern Serbia that almost all municipalities have done the same or similar thing. It is difficult now to give someone the right path and guidance on how to replace those funds. If we don't already have a change of set of the Law on Local Self-Government, if this is just one single piece, the question of what's going to happen in the next period. The third conclusion I have drawn is that it is better or perhaps different to express myself, easier, to take money from municipalities and from citizens than to sort out the situation in EPS, "Srbigas", "The Railways" and other public enterprises where state and people's money is wasted on different things than buying and buying whiskey, to the number of people who work in them, projects they realize. Don't just go where it's easier to break, but let's get rid of what we need and fight the whole of society, and that's to become an orderly state and what you've all stood up for in the past four years in power, and that's to reform a public enterprise and to stop public enterprises being losers. All that's left is stories, but we managed to do this, and you're probably going to do it tomorrow because you have most of the law and you're going to take the money from the municipalities. The problem is that you don't take the money you take from the municipalities, you take from the citizens. I don't know if you're able to see the situation, get down amongst people and see that Serbian citizens, half of them today don't have 200 euros in their wallet. This is not a state that is sustainable and that is durable, there must be something changing. We can't change with any further taking from the people and filling the central register. If it's loaded out of the population's pockets, then we have one serious problem as we see further economic development of the state. The fourth conclusion I drawn was that the 2011 law was misused by the poor, unprofessional and arrogant presidents of municipalities, at least those who can qualify as groups, as I spoke on the first day of the talk about the responsible presidents of municipalities and the prosperous presidents of municipalities. So it's interesting that now a large number of municipality presidents who were still in office today were in some parties, most of them in the ruling party, in the SNS. Now I want to know how bad it was only those who weren't SNS, and they were all good SNS, or maybe I could set things up differently and say that the presidents of SNS municipalities might have been given more funds from the reserve, because they're politically similar, compared to these others. So that's where I want us to be organized society, not to make a difference, because all citizens are the same, no matter who, when and where he voted. How much the party won votes in the elections, the one who received a mandate from the people to perform a certain function, should be fully equal in front of the state, as are others from ruling political parties. Also, what I've drawn as a conclusion is that we have a lot of money, that we have a very large surplus in the budget, that I don't make a mistake again, is it 27 or 30 billion, or as much as the prime minister put out, that it's very good, that we're completely fiscally consolidated, but I'm curious why we're going back to reducing cities and municipalities? Why didn't we say, like European practices -- let's increase some of the public revenue that will go to local self-government level, to reduce the part that will remain in the central register? If we have consolidated for the previous four years and had a trend for the previous four years that some of the funds that remain in the central register are increasing, and that goes to local self-government, let's now show that trend. It would be a sign of goodwill and a sign that what you say about well-being in the Serbian economy, in great results, in reducing surpluses and increasing deficits, it might then be believed, because it would show data, would actually show the procedures that you are now conducting through these laws. I see that we are still going with restrictive measures, which means that neither we nor we have been financially consolidated, nor do we really have a lot of money, and we certainly don't have full pockets, and that's what every citizen will tell you. So now, how can we put it differently in terms of solving the problem? As for the problems of these poor presidents of the municipalities, you will very simply resolve it by changing the electoral law, the electoral system. Let each one come out by name and last name, and as he goes out to elections for the local communities, so let him go out for both the city and the municipality, let the citizens give votes to whoever is best for them, and then let him have the same treatment for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about decentralisation, and on the first day of the session, my bill was to change the law and predict the financing of local communities by seizing part of the property tax as income, and the source of local self-government to transfer one piece to the territory where it is created, where people live. It's been denied, so it's another argument related to decentralisation. As far as practice itself is concerned, and it was one of the arguments that it wasn't recorded in the recent practice, that it wasn't trends that income tax went to the local level, but that it primarily went to the central register. I then ask the question - do the most developed European countries and the most developed European economies sin when they transfer 50% of the total funds to their cities and municipalities, or five times more? Then for them, this modern practice does not stand, but only for us in Serbia. So we give five times less than the most developed economic countries to our cities and municipalities. It would be correct if we really said -- we have a problem, we don't have money, we have to take it, we have to save it, like you told the pensioners, as you told the workers you've been cutting profits, so you could tell the municipalities, and not on the one hand we're listening about how full of cash, and on the other hand we continue to take away the funds from the municipalities. We've reduced them to 9% of the total public revenue now with this amendment to the law. This reduction in income will directly affect the citizens and I am absolutely sure and I am telling you this as someone who has experience in local authorities and I come from locals and every download and every higher authority in cities and municipalities creates a problem in their functioning. Not to talk about situations where natural disasters occurred, such as floods in 2014, when the whole country was hit, when some cities and some municipalities were seriously affected and for two years these cities and municipalities were to be consolidated both with the help of the state and with the help of the EU and all of them, and the question is whether they have been consolidated today. Also, I listened to arguments from the ruling majority that thanks to these funds, we would thank public enterprises for doing their job. Well, should regional roads work for the Serbian Roads or should local self-government work? Should anti-urban missiles be supplied by the RHMZ or by another competent institution or local self-government? Should the medical staff pay for the Health Insurance Fund or local self-government? And when something is done on the territory of a local self-government unit, it doesn't mean that we say – thank you Minister, thank you Prime Minister for doing your job or what some public company, EPS, invests in developing a network on the territory of a municipality, so that's in the description of their work. I'm only talking here about the powers directly granted to local self-government units. Also, I must say, this law certainly leads us to a further problem as a state. I ask you to respect both the arguments and this amendment that we have submitted here, if you really believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is consolidated and if you think this will not be too much of a burden on the municipalities either. I've heard it's a small amount of money on your projections and arguments, but trust me, reducing someone today and 2.8% of the budget, that's a big deal. You have examples from previous years. Almost a very large number, if not half of Serbia's cities and municipalities had blocked accounts in their schools, their institutions, even a large number of them themselves had blocked accounts. Those who didn't have any support. With me, in my municipality, in Triestenik, we're not a single day late with a salary, no institution has been blocked for a single day, not one day, not one day. It's all regularly serviced. We don't have any extra employees. But we are not rewarded either as Kragujev, nor as Nis, nor as Leskovac, nor as any other city. I now, on behalf of those mayors of the good and the president of the municipality who are responsible, who are progressive, who know that they behave domestically, ask that and if you adopt this law, take more care of them in the next period than those who are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2361	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2362	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, the representatives of the Ministry, I must be completely honest and admit that I was hoping, perhaps it's a little naive, that in this term we will not have the practice of proposing a bunch of amendments with the text "expunge". I now see that my hope has been in vain, that we will likely have such practice in this term, despite having heard all the arguments and from the Registrar, but also from all the other participants in this debate, which is already taking place here on the second day. Of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. I fully agree with the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that she gave us in her opinion. I repeat, we've already heard all possible arguments. But what we haven't heard, we haven't heard why we should delete Article 1 of this law? Why would they delete it? Why delete the estimated cuts, so we can have more money to spend on local self-government, so that in Smederjevska Palanca, instead of 343 beers, we can drink a thousand beers or how many beers, instead of 457,000 dinars, we can spend a million dinars on the team? Is that what this is about? Is that the reason? We haven't heard the answer from you. That's what you were supposed to tell us, Mr. Milojich, why are we erasing this article? You have proposed an amendment - Article 1 is deleted. I ask – why should we delete it, so that we can have money to get through football clubs, through the Jasenica football club, so that during the term of office we can pay money to the football club from the municipal budget, from the same budget to pay, and after cash to draw the same money on various donations, sponsorships, etc.? Is this the intensity of your amendment – deleted? Is that the reason? Why delete the 1st member? It's cheaper for citizens to wipe you out in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2363	Mr. Milojich, you're not in my system. Can I erase you, Mr. Bozovic? I have to delete it to give you my word. They can't, they don't believe me. How can I explain to you, you've been an MP for several years and we've been repeating the same exercise for a few years. So you have to stop answering to give the MP a word. I say now you and Ševarlic, Marko Djurisic, Milena Turk and Balša Bozovic, and the only person I have to give my word to is not answered. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2364	I understand that there is great discomfort and impatience and negation of all that I will say that gentlemen across the street are very rebelling whenever someone from the DS responds to the word, but since the previous speaker was not clear why we submitted the amendment, and since I am in a good mood today, I will explain it to him. It's only because you take away citizens of Serbia, municipalities and cities of five billion dinars. Just because citizens don't have their kids to get their lunch pastries in the morning. Just because you cut wages and pensions. That is the only reason we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2366	Thank you, Chairman. You see, the previous speaker has again deliberately avoided giving us an answer to the question why we should delete this amendment. Instead, he started to spill some cheap demagogy. I don't have anything against it. It is a legitimate tool in a political struggle, but I have to ask a question that I've had with my mind a little while ago – whether sponsorship and association with starlets is one of the additional reasons why it is fighting, so "Alo" long ago wrote that Radoslav Milojičić Kena, head of the Central Election Staff DS and President of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, and former participant of the reality, will not mention the name and last name, how they are together, how they come out together, how they spend money. I have to ask a question – is it the Smederjevska Palanka municipality's money or private money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2367	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2368	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, President, you have violated Article 107, and it is a matter of dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because Mr Markovic has carried out a series of insults at the expense of his colleague, and we have heard about the amendments. He was very excited when he realized why someone submitted the amendment was deleted and then set out to insult his political insatiables. I think you've had to react and warn him that next time he's not spoiling the reputation of this home with this kind of fiction he's told a little while ago. I think it's your responsibility, of course, to your obligation, and especially not to show tabloids in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's the bottom of the bottom. If that's what you're up for, if you approve of it, then we're in big trouble. I know you agree with me and I can see from your face that I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2369	Ambassador, you don't think there was an insult on this side and that it doesn't hit the MPs when someone honors them and says they're stealing from the children. Of course they did, but I didn't see the MP behind you scolding when it was read that the money was spent on the starlets. If anyone thinks it was an insult, I really didn't see anything controversial about someone saying what money was spent on certain local self-governments, but I can agree deeply with you on whether it's worth it or not to hang out with the starlets. I don't think it's a matter of debate in parliament. I can't imagine how far in replicas we can go. I would ask you to stick to the subject somehow, but both of us. So, the amendment, no low blows. I think it's a much lower blow to say that you're stealing from children than to give the starlets, if we have to compare the children and certain ladies at all without getting out of the frame of good behavior. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2370	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is totally unacceptable because it deletes Article 1, which is the essence of this law. I'll repeat why we had to pass one of these laws. Because representatives of the previous regime in 2011 passed a law that increased from 40% to 80% of the income tax on local self-government, thereby completely disrupting the budgetary balance at the time. A budget deficit of 1.1%, 40 billion minus in the budget, and not just that. For example, the 2011 budget ended in a minus 13.5 billion, and the 2012 budget was minus due to such procedures. There was no effect on local self-government. Money is spent on current consumption, on wages, on goods and services, etc. But what is much more important today, we could hear from some representatives of the previous regime what we could build for that money, so they even mentioned taking from the people. I'll read you what we could build for everything the representatives, some of the representatives of the previous regime embezzled before 2012. For example, for the 5.2 billion Development Bank, for Europe's boulevard 463 million, then for Hetherland 184 million, then for the Sombor boulevard 177 million, according to the budget inspection. A total of 5.7 billion dinars are embezzled or 1.5 billion dinars of 4.2 billion that will go into the republican budget. Another 2.2 billion or about 120 million dinars of investment value could be built for this, or only about 190 kindergartens. That's who found us talking about morality today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2371	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. You have to waste group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2372	Yeah, I got six minutes. I have to take advantage of this debate today, since I haven't received any answers to the questions I asked two days ago. I was hoping, as well as some colleagues, that there wouldn't be a lot of amendments in this session that were deleted when we discussed. I certainly hoped there would be no law of two members. Two months of government work and one law of two non-promising members. The essence of the law is that Serbia is further centralised, economically, financially, and politically. This is contrary to what you as a government, as MPs who support the government, you are advocating, Europe and European values. There is local self-government participation in the collection and spending of money going up to 50%. You have heard that since 2012 to date, the percentage from 18% has dropped to 11.8% in Serbia. And these are classified and accurate data, such as true data that GDP in Serbia grew by 2011 every year, every year, not as some say it has a minus 4%. One single minus 2009 of 3.1%, 2007 5.9 plus, 2008 5.4 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2373	The amendment specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2374	The amendment is that this is a harmful law. I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2375	The amendment, the general debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2376	Just be patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2377	I'm very patient, and you're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2378	In 2009, minus 3.1, 2010 plus 0.6, 2011 plus 1.4.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2379	It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2380	It's exact data. That's true. Everything else is lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2381	Ambassador, the amendment. You have to be specific, the general debate lasted two years, you have to be specific. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: General debate is deleted Article 1. that is the essence. All right. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Let me speak for four minutes.) ( 6) Six. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I must have used two. Well, if you insist. (Marco Djurisic, from the site: Turn my system on. What system? It's not my system. You'll have to cooperate with me to sign up one more time. Well, look how well we're working together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2382	Thank you, President. So, the law is bad, it takes from local self-government nearly five billion dinars, and the minister herself said that the law in some municipalities has achieved its purpose. It's not the instructions that the municipalities are. Let's see if they're opposition as the minister says, or if they're the others. It's very interesting that municipalities are all declared opposition. I think the Minister is inadmissible. Like your argument that you keep repeating here about the 2008 pension increase as about the terrible thing that happened in Serbia, and then you say it was pre-election, and it happened in October 2008, five months after the election. And it happened because pensions in the previous three years were seriously lagging behind salary growth and in 2007, they were less than 50% of the average earnings in Serbia, which is contrary to the law. So what was done in 2008 was respect for law, justice, and justice above all. And what you did two years ago is kidnapping. You cut pensions and not everybody else's, not everyone's equal, so let's say let's all share the burden, but selectively. Someone has set a sum of 25,000 dinars that is otherwise greater than the average pension in Serbia, and that says how many pensioners live in a difficult state and then took away 10%, 20%, which is a shame and is a debt that someone will have to pay back one day. Someone's gonna have to come back, and that's why we're hard on this bill. And I haven't heard what the government's intention is to do with these five billion? Or what is the intention of 120 billion people here say is the current surplus in Serbia's budget? Is he going to call projects for scientific workers? Two years without a single project, is that how you make a surplus? The scientific work in Serbia is not refinanced, so we are surprised when the data comes out that 59,000 people left Serbia in 2015, 59,000. Almost twice as many as four years ago. What is Serbia's future, if it leaves today 59,000, mostly young people, educated people? What are we hoping for in ten years? How are we going to be competitive on the market of Europe and the world if scientists leave because they can't work in Serbia for two years? These are the things we need to talk about. What kind of negotiation is that, the government comes in and says -- we'll take eight billion of you, and then as you negotiate with local self-government, the SKGO will agree on five. If you'd gone from 20 billion to take from them, you'd probably have been happy with the ten you're taking from them. This is not normal for a democratic European state you claim to be in favour of. That is why we will be against this law and against every other law that is passed in this way, which in this way is trying unfortunately to bring Serbia back to some time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2383	You made a lapus lingvee, not 50,000, but about 5,000. And mortality is about as much as you said. So you made a lapus lingu, and maybe on purpose. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: I did not make the lapus, see the data. If we could talk about the amendment, you didn't say anything, but I can't give you any more time, you've wasted group time. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I have two minutes, as a proposer. You can't talk like a proposer, you suggested it together. You're an old MP, you know... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: A colleague spoke for 14 minutes, I spoke for six...) If you're yelling at me a little more, I might change my mind. You shout a little more, you resist, and I'll get scared and change my mind. So you have no right. First he said two minutes, then he said I'd use the time and time of the mandated promoter. I'm not even out yet. I remember well. Just take it easy, it'll be okay, if someone says anything about the amendment. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2384	Here I go, Maya. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm reporting for the amendment, and I'm going to listen to you right now, and I'm going to talk about the amendment, which my colleague said was too bad. A fellow applicant for the amendment said his amendment was a harmful amendment. I confess and agree with that. The amendment with the text - is deleted, as are all other applicants of the amendment. I'll read just one piece of the argument to answer why I don't accept it and I won't vote for a amendment like this. He says the proposed change is essentially due to the condition of the IMF, not the measure of fiscal consolidation, as only formally stated in the reasoning. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I invite you not to accept this amendment. Not only is the amendment with an explanation formatted in a functionally illiterate way, although it is in itself bad enough, but because the proposer thus demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of the problem. Who doesn't understand can't even make a meaningful suggestion. It's a sad fact, but it's still a fact, and of course, as I said, in voting day, I won't vote for such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2385	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2386	I thank the esteemed president. Dear guests, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, what we heard as one of the main arguments of the promoters for this proposal for legal intervention is that it is for a drastic increase in income at the local site and from the safest income such as the income tax, the most guilty is so-called. Dinkic's law. Data if we deal with them a little more thoroughly, very specifically, official data suggests that municipalities and cities will be less than 26-33 billion dinars a year next year, compared to budgets before the Dinkic law. I want to talk specifically about the amendment, and I want to talk about how the effects of the so-called were gradually reversed. Dinkic's law is not very much spoken of here or elsewhere. I'll do the chronology of that. At the beginning of the new so-called Dinkic law, transfers have been reduced by about three billion dinars due to a new way of calculating transfers, and this has not been discussed since that period. The reduction is calculated against the earlier applicable law by which transfers are calculated according to objective parameters, so the number of residents, surfaces, the number of schools, kindergartens, etc., and this reduction was considered irrelevant even at that time because local authorities received significant funds by increasing from 40% to 80% in profit tax and then using this argument that the locals have money, used then, is still being used today. Furthermore, at the same time a very important thing, with the reduction of the municipality’s income, they received a gift, not a good one, taking care of health homes and pharmacies. These facilities were transferred to a place along with the debts that the Republic left them, or did not settle. Only the debts of the pharmacy at this point are measured by billions of dinars. The annual minimum obligations of local self-government without paying debts reach at least three billion dinars, and the most conservative estimates say that the rehabilitation of these institutions brought an additional 5.6 billion dinars to the bar, with estimates of up to 10 billion dinars. Furthermore, I will use the time of the authorised representative, but by the end of 2012, the state has taken away about six billion more incomes through the operation of abolishing parafiscal duties, with the reason that municipalities and cities have enough money from the income tax. Furthermore, with the removal of the parafiscals previously mentioned, the state increased its revenues by increasing VAT and corporate tax, excise tax, and the plan was to fill the state budget with an additional 42.6 billion dinar. It should not be forgotten that by increasing VAT in 2012, the state has increased its revenues to the burden of municipalities, as municipal costs have been increased while the Republic's income has been increased. Furthermore, in May 2013, the profit tax was reduced from 12% to 10%. The non-taxable part of the profits increased from 7,800 at the end of 2012, to 11,000 dinars in early 2014, and the state's income, pension contributions increased from 22% to 24%, accounts go on the whole salary. And in this way local authorities lost about 20 billion dinars, and the state increased its revenues more than that. Furthermore, since 2014, it has been integrated, in fact, the refund for the use of construction land has been lifted. In this way local self-government is left without this income. In the absence of data and method of integration, the exact amount of loss is not easy to assess. But according to so many estimates of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, this loss for municipalities and cities amounts to more than 13 billion dinars. Furthermore, at the same time in May 2013, the income tax on immovable property becomes the income of the Republic instead of the locals. The implementation of this part of the law, by the way, began in 2014 and on this issue was also a loss of about three billion dinars. Furthermore, during 2013, a lower VAT rate was increased and thus increased state revenues again, while new costs were made for local budgets. Furthermore, starting in 2014 due to the finance ministry's error, publicly recognised, total transfers have been reduced by nearly four billion dinars 3.7 more precisely. The mistake, although publicly recognised, has never been corrected, as Minister Lazar Krstic, meanwhile, has left office and the new minister has not been informed of the problem. Furthermore, the Republic from the local budget also took 10% of the profit reduction, as the average profit municipality stands between 20% and 30% of the budget, it is easy to calculate that 2% to 3% of the municipality's budget is leaving the Republic on this basis. Furthermore, the republic also reduced its pensions as well as the salaries of its public sector workers, and therefore planned savings in the state budget of around 50 billion dinars. Since 2015, the contribution to construction under the new Law on Planning and Construction is no longer paid for production facilities. The total contribution to construction before this measure was over nine billion dinars, so it is realistic to estimate that the loss on this basis is another two billion dinars for the locals. Any increase in electricity prices is dramatically affecting municipal budgets, but it is the most interesting situation with a excise that goes directly to the RS budget. The increase in electricity prices of 10% is the cost of a budget that can be estimated at between 0.5% and 0.8% of the additional burden on the municipality's budget. Why? Because the costs of public debate for municipalities and cities are enormous. At the end of 2015, excise duties and increased revenues of the Republic's budget were again increased and, finally, with an attempt at legal intervention, nearly five billion more will be reduced to municipalities and cities in favour of the central level and from the safest income that municipalities and cities collect. What has, of course, led to the end of this debate, LSV not to support this bill's amendment proposal, i.e. to vote against amendments, is the fact that we expected Ms. Brnabić's ministry to start some of the necessary laws than this one, at least to go in the right order, i.e. that the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, or local self-governments, are already governed by the basic law, and only then by the following fiscal law relying on jurisdiction and that, as I have already indicated in my previous presentation, if we are already talking about such enormous disproportion and differences in capacity and capacity of municipalities to meet their basic competences, then it was very easy to make a long proposed solution to introduce the principle of both political or multiple local self-government, i.e. unit of local self-government so that the minimum of the necessary competences that municipalities and cities can be met in terms and in terms of competences that they can be met. Of course, in light of what is the essence of the existence and work of LSV we expected a much more necessary law ahead of us, which is the law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, not that our Province of Vojvodina continues to be treated as a municipality or city, or local self-government. In the end, I must add that in addition to all these expectations from the resolute minister in the first place, I expected to be a feather of decentralisation, especially with its multiple and consecutive announcements of decentralisation and to be at the head of the fight with the finance minister fighting for the benefit of local self-government, not that any increase in funding and funding for local self-government would follow with the post office – unfortunately I expected it to really be the first fighter for local self-government, not to become the whip of God's government of the RS on the back of municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2387	Thank you. Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2388	Thank you. I'd like to do the amendment. Normally, I would invite all fellow MPs not to accept the amendment because we remember the last call when we had hundreds of amendments – is deleted. I fully support this bill because we have to save and save in order to ensure that the budget works easier. As far as local self-government is concerned, I will speak again about my local self-government where I was president of the municipality, and my local self-government is Svrlig where by 2000 there were more workers than residents. After 2000, after those bankruptcy laws, poor privatisations, all workers lost their jobs. Otherwise, Srljig has over 200km of travel network maintained by local self-government. We have 500 square miles. So to preserve it, to do it, we invested in road infrastructure there, we invested in youth, culture. We have cultural events, such as the days of Gordane Todorovic, such as the publication of the book of vigilance, such as the separation of a lot of things for young people, let's say the scholarships are set aside, we finance the scholarships of the final year of the study for all students. We set aside for agriculture close to 10% of the budget, we set aside for the economy, for the employment of young people, we built a pool of our own resources, we finish the sports hall from our own resources, we have 22 workers less employed than we have the right to do. Therefore, I think the Srlig municipality can be an example, as the minister said, of all municipalities, because the south of Serbia, the southeast of Serbia, is in a very difficult state. We are a demographically compromised municipality, a devastated municipality, but we fight and try to stay there. I am an example of how you should advocate your end and your community. It is easy to leave its place in Belgrade, to operate from Belgrade. I live in Srlig, I stand for the purpose of the whole of Southeast Serbia as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2389	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2390	Thank you. Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished Mrs. Brnabic, honored guests, once again I want to thank Mrs. Brnabic for the debate we had during yesterday's debate, and I think she was very quality. Although we disagreed on those essential things, I think you're a rare minister who really respected the MPs and answered all the questions we've been asking all day. There are, of course, your associates, who we know from some earlier times. So the competence is not questionable. What we've been undermining all this time is next. We listened to various colleagues, we listened to various thoughts – our money, your money, the government of Serbia's money, the president's money. It's the money of Serbian citizens. They're not money belonging to any local administration, they're citizens' money they spend on their lives. A concrete example is the Geronto housewives in the municipality where this Assembly, Old Town, where pensioners and some old people who are users of the geronto housewives cannot replace their own lamps in their apartment, where they are used by the Gerontohome girls in order to make their jobs easier – we have denied them by taking away 4.8 billion now and 53 in the past four years. So 53 billion dinars are slightly less than the budget of the city of Belgrade. We have a situation where we spent money on baby packages by local self-government, where there are young married couples who want to start their family and stay in Serbia and disagree with the fact that someone is stealing children. It doesn't steal children, but it deny them the possibility of a baby package worth five, ten or 15 thousand dinars, depending on the possibility some municipal budget has. That's very important, because in the first few months these couples are in shock, with expenses, with planning, they don't often know what hit them, so one married couple isn't employed, so they're both unemployed, etc. The situation in Serbia is very difficult and it means a lot. That's the money. We've denied these people that money. We have a situation, I was saying during yesterday, that many local self-governments in Serbia were precisely using these funds for school buses for children living in the village. Alin Potok is 15 km away from the center of Chatine and the school and one young fellow from the second grade of elementary school uses it. He can take the school bus, and he can walk. In order not to go on foot, this money was used in the Cheetah municipality just for that school bus. These are the things that we are opposed to and for which we have submitted these amendments. I think it is very important to be aware that financing in Serbia is a very complicated thing. We know that negotiations with the IMF are necessary and we know that they are very difficult and we know that it may be the easiest thing to achieve consolidation in this way. No one argues that these are the things that Serbia really needs. We just want some kind of priority. Let's see where we can pinch without taking these kids or taking babies with packages or old faces, which we've already reduced to an unconstitutional pension. So, the bottom line is the next one, and that's what I end up with. We have 75 billion dinars that the government has budgeted to spend at the conclusion. Without transparent spending of money, Serbia cannot become a regulated country. We've got 17 billion dinars on the job contract. I know it's not your fault, but it's this party army, and that's why citizens think that only politicians in Serbia live better, while they're getting thinner and thinner with money, while living worse and worse. I end up with Marko Djurisic being right when he says pensioners were unconstitutional, in 2000 we returned them. So it won't be our first time we'll be returning them again soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2391	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that we're talking about one thing, you're talking about another or we're from another planet or we're talking in some incomprehensible language. Your discussion, by members of the former regime, comes down to the following. They love their municipalities, and we don't love them. They love their pensioners, and I don't like my father and mother who are also pensioners. They love Serbia, we don't love it. It's very easy to attribute the laws to someone. Now someone's doing it for political reasons and someone's doing it for ignorance. This is not Dinkic's law, no, 40% of the profit tax hike was brought by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, while Mirko Cvetkovic was prime minister and finance minister. So don't blame a man who isn't here and who doesn't have an objective responsibility for this. I've got a lot on him that I-I can't blame, Dinkich, but I can't do this. It's easy to check, the law was passed, I think, in June of 2011. It was brought in to fund the republic, local and presidential elections. There's no other reason. Now we've been reading here a list of how much of what was taken away from the municipalities, how much was given, how much was lost by any of the municipalities. I come from a richer local self-government, but I know that local self-government has singled out 24.25 million dinars for a professional football club where, imagine, no one has played from the Fireman. It was during the former regime. Or, say, two billion dinars were held by banks to earn interest of two or three percent, but where that difference is to the reference interest rate, no one can explain it to me. Or they paid expensive projects to solve the water supply issue, so the former mayor of 2011 went to the local media and said – Pozharec for the next 25 years has solved the issue of water supply, provided they are flooded, that was spent huge funds. We had an emergency last year at this time because they were listening to a private institute that, someone mentioned fireman and water supply, a private institute. The Zrenjanin and the Fireman both have the same problem, the same way it's solved, the huge funds they've spent and the drinking water doesn't have. Now, the fact that one municipality has no drinking water, which is one of Serbia's brands, is "The Palanic Acid", which produced the famous mineral water "Karajordje", which you now have to ask the management of that municipality, and the old and the new ones, I will not enter those details. If already the former regime gave up huge funds in favour of local self-government, I ask one question – why did local self-government not then abolish their parafiscal fees that were then in force? Well, they had to finance football clubs. I don't mind local self-government helping sports, but that amateur, mass sports, the construction of terrain, small stadiums, sports halls, gyms in schools. Someone has forgotten the basic activity of local self-government. Someone will say – the basic activity of local self-government is to provide municipal infrastructure, that it is a service of citizens etc. All of this is true, but the most important job of a local self-government is to create conditions for the economic development of its unit of local self-government. That's what the presidents of the former regime's municipalities forgot. They didn't do it, and that's why they care about parafiscal duties. Because you know what, who's going to open up a company in any municipality where they're going to pay a fee to bring up 100, 150 or 200 thousand dinars, and these companies don't exist objectively. When someone asks a question - whose money is it, I ask a question - and who has to earn that money? Is he the president of the county? Is he an employee of local self-government? No, money has to be made by the real sector. The real sector, because here a fellow MP came out and said there was growth, like this, like that. He just forgot to say that the unemployment rate from 14%, during the Boris Tadic regime, jumped to 27%. It's GDP growth, please imagine. I just don't know by what economic rules. There were mentions of apothecary facilities here. And how is it that the pharmacy Pogorec has 80 million profits, has no obligation at all, has a supply of about a billion dinars, and other local self-governments and pharmaceutical institutions have losses? Is that why it's the law? No, it's the ones who ran those facilities. It is also my Jorgovanovic's fault that he made a profit of 100 million to teach you how to run a pharmacy. We can arrange a course, no problem. You're talking about health homes. Well, there are some doctors, some nurses. Where do they get the pay? Why don't you say so? From the local budget? No, they're receiving from the Republic. They're receiving from the Republic. We want to talk about educators? And that belongs to local self-government. The founders of school institutions are local self-government, so you have three parents, three from the ranks represented by the school board, representing local self-government and three from the staff. Where do they get the pay? Again from the Republic budget. What are you talking about? What are these responsibilities that were given to local self-government in 2009, 2010, 2011 and so far, in order to have this burden under the law that belongs to them? Tell me, tell me. Local tax administration. Well, you have a law on funding local self-government. The law defines revenues belonging to municipalities. You want to read? No problem, we can read. Article 6 states - the unit of local self-government is the original income obtained on its territory, and that tax on property, except for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and tax on inheritance and gift, and local administrative fees, and local communal fees, and residence tax, tax on the use of public goods in accordance with the law, concession fees, other fees in accordance with the law, income from fines, income from the lease of a business space, revenues resulting from the sale of services of users of funds. So wait, did these presidents of the former regime's municipalities expect someone else to make them money? Let's look at what's changing in Article 35, or what's not changing, it's much more interesting, so let's see those crocodile tears that fly over the presidents of municipalities that are now more responsible to behave, and that's why they don't ask for that 2%. Article 35. – The units of local self-government belong to the following taxes achieved on its territory, these are Republic taxes, so it says: agriculture and forestry, independent activities. We're going back to the company now. Well, you've been yelling, whenever you've opened the Str most common at 150,000 a month. I'm telling the truth. I know how you acted. Never have many of you worked in the real sector and in the economy, so they don't know what it's like to make money, how big it is, and how easy it is to spend it, especially when you don't earn it. Next, on the proceeds from the immovableity, giving in to the lease of movable things, the insurance of the face. And now 80 changes to 76. Now someone says 4% of the budget is shrinking. It's not even 1%. It's not even 1% when you put the whole budget together. Let's look at the second part of the same law, which you won't read so you can deal with politics, not politics. It says this way, Article 37. The law – the annual amount of the total non-intentional transfer, which represents the accounting category for the distribution of units of local self-government, is 1.7% of the GDP achieved. Well, this one is this year, for 2015 it's going to be two billion more. Where's the reduction? Where will the poorest municipalities and the most endangered depend on the Republic of Serbia's budget and the will of the prime minister? They will have more resources because of the government's work and results, not taxis and charges that were designed just to keep as many pre-election promises as you made in 2008, no matter how much you lost your business and the real sector. The whole fiscal consolidation and the reasons why there are only two. A huge deficit with interest that you have agreed on and which is bigger than could be negotiated by the most ordinary worker in the EU for its ordinary consumer credit. At 7%, you're in charge of the state on an annual basis. Today we're paying your loans to 170 billion dinars. Let me translate that into GDP - 5%. That's all we pay is the interest you left us. The second reason why there are fiscal consolidation measures is because 700,000 are missing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2393	You've wasted your time with authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2394	I'm wasting my time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2395	No, you've wasted your authority, and now you're moving on to the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2396	I guess I have the right to decide, huh? I'll talk to the MP's group, no problem. What are you so excited about? I don't understand why you're so excited. It is simply a question of one other area, which is whether each municipality has the right to develop in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so you have reduced your discussions to the fact that they will be mayors or presidents of municipalities who are at the will of the prime minister to receive funds, and these others will not. As if the prime minister can choose where Corridor 10 or 11, where the railway between Nis and Belgrade will cross, both Belgrade and Sudotica and Budapest. Well, he can't. That's why Serbia is developing more evenly now than when you were in power, because you put the whole of Serbia in one city and then someone gets angry and says, "Why are they all coming to Belgrade?" Well, there's no work in the interior. Well, that's the kind of Serbia you've made. I don't know where the government of the Republic of Serbia hasn't helped since Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and when the floods occurred, it wasn't looking at what local self-government was and who was in power, but was looking to help people in the first place. And you forgot that. And then you talk about decentralisation and centralization. The presidents of municipalities and mayors for their work correspond to their constituents and fellow citizens and it is time for them to start running their municipalities. I believe that these new ones, which are now the first time, will do it right, because the Republic budget, from which we pay and pensions and salaries in education and salaries in the military and salaries in the police and interest that you have left us, will pay for that republican budget. If all this was so great when you were in power, why were your municipalities in charge? Why did one mayor deposit a billion dinars into a single bank, then from that bank with an interest of one or two percent he took out a loan for that same local self-government? It's, it says, a dedicated loan. So determine the purpose of this billion instead of standing in a bank with 6% and a foreign exchange clause. So the revenues of local self-government were increased precisely thanks to the republican parliament, but there was no will in the leadership of the former regime to create conditions for what is most important, which is the economic development of its local self-government. That's why there are local self-governments, so when you make it possible, you'll care whether you get 76 or 80% of the profit fund, because you're going to increase the number of employees in your community. Or do you expect the prime minister to go from municipality to municipality and hire people? Let's do something and local self-government on their own. Let's let them do something on their own. Come on, these are, I think, brave.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2397	Ambassador, please return to the amendments. We've gone too far. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2398	Here I go. The local self-governments run by the former regime, other than credit and state-reliance, knew nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2399	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. I have to hurt the Rules of Procedure. How intolerant.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2400	President of the Assembly, it seems to me that an injured member of 107 has been injured. A colleague, Arsic, with excessive force of arguments, totally destroyed the opposition. I can't say any harder words, but I really feel sorry for them. And don't say no one protects you here because this is almost genocide he did. Don't do that, Arsic, when I beg you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2401	Ambassador, I tried to stop him. I warned him twice. If you want to vote on my mistake, but I really don't want to be rude. (Ljubisa Stojmirović, from the place: No. I'd like to ask you to replace me for a short time. Here you go. Let's just listen to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2402	After these twenty minutes of speech by my colleagues, the only thing I understand is the question of the 2011 law, with the fact that I want to remind all of us – so you've been in power for five years at all levels, you said, and I will address you, a respected minister. You said that 99% of local self-government with mayors, presidents of SNS municipalities, so you're carrying five years of responsibility for local government. You can't transfer us to fight a law like this and you can't transfer funds from the local budget, over the past five years intensely, and with this law, about five billion, 4.8 billion from personal motive. We also protect your mayor, but above all we protect the citizens of the cities and the municipalities of Serbia. The 2011 motive and the adoption of this law, with increased participation of local self-government in profit tax, is the motive we will understand each other about. You know yourself that intensively, especially after 2000, worked to raise the capacity of local self-government institutions, but also influence through work in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, with the desire that local self-government not only remain public service providers at the city level. It is necessary that they be, it is necessary to be effective, but it was a desire to encourage local economic development. You know that we have talked about this many times and that is one of the key challenges everywhere in Serbia. Not only the communals, yes and that, but also inciting local economic development. How could you encourage local economic development? So you're going to motivate mayors and presidents of municipalities to fight for greater employment and through greater participation in profit tax, to fight for bigger jobs and for greater employment. To produce that game, I guess that's a logical motive, and that's why I think that would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2403	Ambassador, thank you. The word is Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2404	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted because residents of cities and municipalities will be able to feel much greater progress and development where the municipality's leadership behaves responsibly and domestically, even with reductions, not as it has been done so far, with waste. In Triestenik, for example, there is no longer only a pre-election asphalt, but infrastructure is done according to the priorities and suggestions of the citizens. One of the amendment's promoters was in the position of the president of the municipality of Trstenik, and during that time, 30 million dinars were allocated from the municipality's budget to finance the work of television, and only 20 million for agriculture and economy, for the marketing agency "Stratcom" advertising of the municipality of 280,000 dinars a month. While at the head of the pre-election campaign in 2012, a debt of 60 million dinars, which the municipality still returns today, was made. In this campaign for these elections – 100 million dinars of debt. Speaking of the home of health, according to the staff plan, there are 14 extra sisters in the House of Health in Tristenik and over that number nine sisters were paid from the budget of the municipality of Trstenik. I am sure that all 1,500 citizens who support this list and this programme supports this way of budget distribution, but most citizens said they want responsible and domestic business, and I am sure that with this reduction, they will also feel much more achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2405	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2406	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, as local development progressed from 2000 to 2012 we can see on the Kruševec case. In 1999, after the bombing in Krusevec, there were 40,000 employees and was the second city in Serbia to be developed, right behind Belgrade. In 2012, we were classified into a group of devastated areas, 16 thousand employees of which three thousand in the real sector. It's their local development plan. That's one thing. Second, by law, when health homes are concerned, i.e. health centres also between 2000 and 2012, a decision was made for God's sake to better control the funds that the homes of health belong to local self-government. It's your law. Under the law, local self-government was imposed on most of the salary of health homes, i.e. local self-government, during a deobligation balance between hospitals and homes. Now the Ministry of Health is for the sake of a new bill that will restore health centres and unite hospitals and health homes, because this has proved to be very, very bad in the control of financial resources. That's another thing. The third thing, as far as my neighbors from Triestenik are concerned, by 2012, it was a city, to say, one party, one woman, I don't want to mention her name, not present, she can't answer me. Only those who belonged to that political option could receive subsidies. The subsidies weren't small, and Triestenik had a water supply problem every year. So, how does the level fall (Miroslav Aleksic, from the scene: And who solved the problem? In 2014, when the floods were catastrophic, your well systems were flooded because the project was poorly done. If it hadn't been for the cruise water and the Serbian Army to donate to you and bring you water, you wouldn't have anything to bathe in, wash and maintain your personal hygiene and water the citizens. As you maintained local infrastructure and your local water streams and streams we saw, Mrs. Milena Turk and I were going around the field after the flood. That was disastrous. So catastrophic that ambulance vehicles couldn't reach individual patients, and that was happening on your local self-government. Don't talk to me. Don't talk to me like that. This is an actual condition. So your local self-government didn't do anything. Your local self-government did nothing between 2000 and 2012 until it received an amine Verice Kalanovic. Is that what you want to hear? So, the cheers and clothes of Trstenik, and there were situations of both party and family employment of people who went into disability pension and were employed in the ministry as a driver. So please don't just teach us how to run the country. We took responsibility for running the country. We'll lead her in the best possible way, for the benefit of the citizens, and you showed it in Triestenik and the citizens said theirs in Triestenik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2407	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2408	Thank you. First of all, I didn't want to ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can't address the MPs and the others, that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to respond. The third day we're talking about this law. I tried to understand the motives of adopting this law, why he is the first, respected minister, I am absolutely sure that you are among the few people who absolutely know how local self-government works, how it's managed by local self-government, in the end you've been doing it for many years, but I don't understand again, if we're doing this well, and we hear every day and we listen here today, how great we are doing in Serbia, that the first law be a reduction in one level of government. I understand that representatives of the ruling coalition support such a thing. That when it was the second structure in this parliament you had the mayor's rebellion in Serbia when their funds were taken away, today we don't have such a reaction, I totally understand. I do not accept that some Serbian prime minister calls ugly names, as we heard earlier, but it is absolutely true that the only president of the municipality and mayor in all Serbian cities is Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. That's right. So it was on posters in the election campaign and he absolutely got all the elections. Therefore, I understand why the representatives of local self-government do not fight for their resources. It's perfectly natural for them to have more resources, to solve problems, to be more successful than others. We can't say that we won't damage anyone, if we cut any funds, we have to damage someone. Budget has some means, some recipients of funds, someone we have to take away those funds, whether it's one dinar, or whether it's 4.8 billion dinars. I am absolutely in favour of meeting what you promised here in parliament and at this point withdrawing this bill and coming up with a whole solution to the financing of local self-government as soon as possible, and what it means before the adoption of the final budget for the next fiscal year. As far as I can tell, everyone's got a problem with discretionary law. This discretionary right remained in 2011, which is what hurts every president of local self-government when any government, any minister or any prime minister, is exclusively a discretionary right to grant an asset and not to someone. It's not a transparent government, it's institutional corruption. It bothers everyone. Come on, let's get it out of this law first. We don't know what projects we're going to finance, let's discuss the contest, let people report to the waterfalls we've been doing together at a permanent conference, who has documentation with a certain number of subjects can get co-financing. It's a transparent way of spending money. That's what I personally expect you to do in the next period. This is the solution we have today, a solution that, at a time when the prime minister is responsible, and I absolutely trust him that he has never lived better in this country. When he claims the public finances were never better, and I trust him. When the current liquidity in the budget is the largest in Serbia's history, we should withdraw the funds by first law and thus accuse the parties of the former regime. Here, for the first time in this House, I have sat several times in various parliaments, in this I am not, which are parties to the former regime. We have the SRS and the SPS, you're as much as I understand the part of the people who came out of the SRS and you've been in power for ten years. We have a SNS that's four years old in power. We have your coalition partner, the SPS, who was 90 and 2000 with the DS. We have Rasim who's been in power his whole life. So, what are the parties to the former regime? In the end, we're going back and I don't want to do it, I want to talk about these amendments. We've tried these amendments to draw attention that really someone will lose those funds. I tried in the first day, when the transfer was excluded to explain to you taxively about some ten, 12 local self-government what it means to them, and I told you that it was approximately equivalent to those funds that are the level of social giving in those local self-governments. Whether the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors, these funds will be spent on another side or will preserve the level of social giving, but somewhere the money has to go. If there is less money, it is clear that it is not good and it is clear that we are not doing any good thing. With one important fence that neither I nor DS representatives have a problem fulfilling our obligations to the IMF. We're in charge, and we have to get those funds back. We're responsible people, and I hope you're the responsible people here. The International Monetary Fund is our partner as long as it has to be our partner. We can't wait for him to be our partner, and right now, he is our partner, and we need to meet the conditions. But we also know that the IMF certainly didn't say exactly these 4.8 billion get out of here. He didn't say for sure. It was probably one proposal to save the total amount of money. A phenomenal thing happened in Serbia, great things happened in Serbia, according to the prime minister, we hear that economic activity has been dramatically increased and I see no reason why they would cut off these funds right here. We have direct social benefits at the level of various local self-government and they are very different. When someone mentions babies, I absolutely disagree that we say we're stealing, but there simply won't be any more funds to pay for those families that get their first child. We won't have the resources to pay for what wasn't our obligation and today is not a legal obligation, and that's funding free transportation of children who go to high school. At this point we have a dramatic difference between the offering of per capitules per capita in cities and populated villages. And here we have a situation where the smallest number and coverage of children finishing high school comes from the village. It's completely natural. If someone has less income, they have two or three children and they have to pay high school tickets that are not required by local self-government to pay, and some local self-governments have done it, of course they won't send a child to high school, not because he doesn't love his child, but because he can't. That's the level of funds that's going to disappear somewhere. It's those geronto-homewives. That's the level of giving. It is in percentages absolutely as you said, but it's a serious amount of money. For the state it's somewhere below 50 million, dramatically below, but for local self-government is a huge amount of money, 50, 40 million, 240 million. Yesterday we had one terrible situation that the mayor of the New Now opened a fence on the House of the Army. I expect the mayor of Novi Sad to open boulevards. It's not true that he won't, but he doesn't have the funds, he'll lose 300 million in this budget. I can't figure it out, and I know what they said at the Standing Conference meeting in August in front of you and NAED, and it's insane to let someone take away your funds. I guess it's natural that every single person wants to be the most successful in society, he was at the local level, in sports, in culture, in science, in education. I don't understand that the mayors who have taken over, and the presidents, the general responsibility wants them not to be successful, but to be only one man successful in this country, which is to locate their funds, that they can't do some of the things that the citizens have chosen them for, or choose him, and they're doing in his name this job. As far as I can see and hear representatives of local self-government from the ruling party, they don't need those funds. Here, I absolutely stand for centralization today. All funds should be taken, the directors, the forced managers, the bankruptcy directors by local self-government, that local self-government is in what state, so let it be managed by the state, but that's not the solution. Both you and I know well and we have fought since 1996, from the Free Cities and Towns Community, to this day, to strengthen local self-government units in a functional, political and economic sense. There's a lot of reasons for that. There are no economically developed societies and countries that do not have well-developed and centralized local self-government. I know you understand that, and I know you're going to do a lot of work on it, but I want to draw a line here, that those who don't understand it right now. It is indisputable, above all, that the 2011 motive was completely different from what is being explained here today. Direct funds and budget donations were reduced, it was compensated with an increase in income tax. I told you that I agree absolutely that this cannot be a dominant income for local self-government, because particularly underdeveloped economic local self-governments have little income and cannot count and plan in the long term. But on the other hand, local self-government is the one that needs to fight for investment. It's not true it's not up to them. The last thing the prime minister has to do is go from investors to investors. It's proof there's no state institution. That's why there are ministries, first of all the Ministry of Economy, then the Ministry of Education, which is crucial to attract investors at this point. Without a qualified workforce, we're not competitive, so there are various agencies that do it, but the biggest job is always on mayors and presidents of municipalities. They're the ones who promote investment in this country. The prime minister's responsibility is to establish a system of rule of law, the work of the judiciary, the transparent administration, the public spending of funds that will show every investor that this is a stable and serious country. When the prime minister shows up to negotiate with the biggest pig manufacturer, it's a bad message. I'd take it if he were to negotiate with Mercedes, but not with the pig manufacturer. That's what someone else should do for him. I'm using the time of my proposal. That's why we need to empower local self-government in every way, and above all in what's called human resources. I am ready to repeat to you what I said on the first day when the transmission was shut down, and that is, we are stuck with people. We can give all the money in this world, if you look at today who runs these systems, nothing will happen. That's why we need to consider your draft amendments to the law whether we can return the direct source of the president of the municipality and the mayor. The president of the municipality can't, because he's defined by the Constitution, perhaps the mayor can, in a political sense, cut off this process. I appeal to you that as soon as possible, since I am aware that you will reject all our amendments, or most of them in this room, but that the sooner you come out with a bill that will first of all remove corruption that is institutional, which is the discretionary right of any individual to grant an asset, and someone not, to come out with a modern financing law. It doesn't have to be the best, we'll fix it next year again. To come out with the taxes we talked about, and the taxes are what hurts every businessman and of course they need to get out of the way. I told you that when we do an analysis, when you come up with a new bill, communal fees, you'll have a situation where the dramatic number of municipalities will raise these taxes from today and make up for these funds in the future. I firmly believe that this is wrong and I firmly believe that it can't do anyone any good if you take someone's money away, I just don't believe why the ruling majority can't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2409	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2410	Honorable citizens, respected colleagues, the prime minister only does what every man wants, which is to get a job feeding his family. The former regime wonders when we mention the former regime. We could say one party, DS, but they've been dividing so much lately that we don't know how much of a party of the former regime anymore. I find it very strange that some of the former regimes have submitted amendments. I didn't want to report under this law because I expected no amendments to be submitted. Well, they're no longer in power in local self-government. They can no longer establish a system where centrifuges of money sucking out of local self-government, transfer money they got from the province. We have countless projects, countless halls that have been built on projects of the 1990s to make as much money as possible from privatisation from the republican budget in the pockets of individuals. The Capital Investment Fund has approved everything, whoever came and said - I am a member of the DS in this municipality, I have a project there to build a hall, it costs millions and millions of euros, it's a village that doesn't even have five students, it's a different story, it's a requirement for local self-government to post those halls to maintain, it's another story again. It is important to suck out money from Serbian citizens. The Vrbas municipality, as many as we have employees in the municipality, is more like a number that is ashamed and every Vrbashan. When they could no longer be employed in the municipality, they pulled out, say, farmers, set up a Jasip agency so they could receive new ones instead. Not to say debt, and I see anger in individual DS members in Vrbas why today several times the debt of a billion and five hundred million was mentioned. Well, only the auditor found 500 million dinars in 2013, when he was in control. What if he controlled 2012 when it was an election campaign? Well, that's hundreds and hundreds of millions. Let's just say, an example -- they raise a loan to reenact the hall where they receive citizens, say, 500 thousand euros, and then they realize that it's crazy or that it's the hall of the former Beobanke all in marble and the real service of the citizens, which was made by the previous government, and then the next Assembly better converts that credit to build, say, a building for the physical culture of the room, so they realize that it's not justified, that someone will call them and eventually end that money, that credit is renamed as a reconstruction of the roof of the museum, but we didn't have a reconstruction of the roof of the museum, and that money disappeared at the end of the election campaign, paying everything that was done in the course of the campaign. My colleague professor, a respected professor, mentioned genocide. That could be said for the hospital. It was a nice project of a regional hospital, a project of the province, a huge amount of money, and eventually bought appliances, bought systems that were shared... When a scanner is divided into 50 parts, 50 public procurements, and when those 50 parts of a scanner come in, then there's surgeons instead of treating patients, operating, they're putting together this scanner and they've never even done it, the machines are standing there, the machines are in storage, they don't have a camera that could work with these machines, and the patients in the Vrbas municipality have everything but the dignity of that patient who should have a service that the hospital should provide. We now have 100 million dinars of debt blocked, not to mention when this leadership came. Debts came from all sides. They didn't pay the Duke's water 80 million, electricity, public lighting. In each public company we have unpaid taxes, contributions, energy, fuel, loans raised and now someone comes out for a local assembly pay phone and says – this authority is incompetent. How can she be able to rule when he's found millions and millions of dinars of debt? Two years of unpaid electricity, two years of unpaid public lighting, not paying for mosquito dust, non-intentional spending 500 million dinars, and what's that they packed up for purpose? It was the parties of the former regime, those parties that emerged from one party and split after the elections, after the collapse in the elections, but the citizens knew they were showing in the elections, that they appreciated what the Prime Minister was doing. I'm proud of him when he says he's going to enter every public toilet, every facility, every facility, he's going to fight for every job, because that's exactly what citizens expect from their representatives to do, and that's to fight for them every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2411	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica, mentioned DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2412	The D.S. was mentioned again, as if you wanted to. The right to tell you, and I don't care to answer all your stories, but since you mentioned what you inherited five years ago, you had five years to fix this in the state, to organize life, but I'll tell you what happened and what DS inherited from you, your coalition in 1996 when in a large number of cities in the coalition then, together, won the local elections. She inherited the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic, which was passed, where the funds of local self-government were seized and transferred to the management of the Republic of Serbia. It is this Parliament, and you have voted against this law that you have passed in the 1990s by then wanting to reduce the opportunities for local self-government and extinguish the way to increase the quality of life in these cities and municipalities. In 2000, debts, 15 billion euros left to public debt. The GDP then was seven billion euros. So over 160% of public debt in GDP in 2000. Someone then inherited the debts he was solving. Yes, the DS government and cities and municipalities and city presidents and municipalities and local self-government that contributed to some development and some authority of local authorities. You also inherited 15 billion euros in public debt in 2012. In May 2012, 14.8 billion euros in public debt, when GDP was 33 billion, which means that it was 48% of public debt participation in GDP. Indisputable, much better data and much better conditions that you inherited, and you complain all the time. At the time, no one complained, but he rolled his sleeves and tried to do something for his citizens. Try it on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2413	The word of the People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2414	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not disputed that we are politically different, it is not disputed that we differ in economic theories, it is not disputed that you do not trust the government of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister, the MPs, the ministers, it is not disputed that you do not trust the IMF, the Fiscal Council. Today it's a dispute that we can't agree on simple mathematics fractions for the fourth grade of elementary school. That's the problem. I want to vote for your amendments. It's no problem, if you three key theories to me today, which you're presenting, why should we vote prove that they're correct. The first thing you say is that these amendments to the law are reducing and reducing and the state of Serbia is doing, or the Serbian Parliament, because the Serbian Parliament is passing fiscal law, destroying local administrations, as we are against everything. The second theory is that there is, as you say, 11.86, someone says 11.82 budget revenues. Now I don't get it, and I'm gonna try to explain what you're trying to say. The third problem is decentralisation or centralization. Let's take it in a row. It's about the law on profit tax. I, not because of you, do not believe, brought relevant data to Serbian citizens saying that the income tax in 2015 is 141 billion dinars and that the projection is 143 billion. It wasn't like that. There was growth, and that growth started by starting in 2015 with 14.9.5 billion dinars. He says the Fiscal Council that in 2016, citizens, here's a report from the Fiscal Council, that's about a fourth, fifth grade, I'm reading, it's going to end up with 155 billion. What don't we understand now? We don't understand each other because the Serbian government took measures in 2015, 2016, to raise the income tax that we are discussing today for 14 billion dinars, 10.5 billion is income tax for citizens, 80% of local administrations. In two years, local administrations, thanks to the Serbian government, have received 8.4 billion fiscal consolidation. We are talking about a law that will apply from 1 January 2017. When you talk about the profit tax that has to be made in 2016, 2017, you have to say realistically – yes, in 2016, thanks to the Serbian government, it has been paid into local administration budgets over 3.5 billion dinars. The fiscal council says the IMF says the profit tax will grow at 3.5% each year. I understand we don't understand each other. I'm perfectly clear. So if you have a simple math where one side grows and the other one goes down, then what are you talking about? This is not a report by the fiscal council, this is my simple mathematics to explain to citizens of Serbia who do not understand. If you have 100 dinars and multiply them by 80%, that's 80 dinars. If you have 106 dinars and multiply by 77%, that's 80 dinars. Madam Minister, it's a great pleasure to understand each other, if they understood this, so Serbia wouldn't be here today where it is. And it is a great pleasure to be applauded by MPs from the opposition, beginning to understand, beginning to understand. Let's do another topic - why can't I vote for this proposal. They say - there are 11.86% of budget revenues. First, I don't know what budget revenues mean, they probably mean the general state or the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but whatever they say are wrong. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is 997 billion dinars. The general government budget is 1711 billion. What are we talking about? I don't have a reaction on the other side. What are they talking about? So the general government costs 1711 billion, 997%, fourth grade primary school 58%. Where are the 11.86 budget revenues? Now, in the fourth grade of elementary school, no mathematics is taught, but in the Serbian Parliament, there is a fiscal order, Madam Minister. Serbia's parliament, not the government, is responsible for the distribution of revenues under fiscal competences, and it says local administrations are financed from three sources of income: transfers, concessions and source revenues. The original income is regulated by the local administration. You know, the Republic Assembly has nothing to do with that. Assigned revenue has been defined by clearly tax principles and fiscal policy. There's no deviation. Transfers are a corrective mechanism. When you have poor original and acquittal income, then you have to have transfers as a corrective mechanism for local administration to function normally. If certain municipalities in Serbia function well in this system, they have surpluses, no blocked accounts, then other municipalities can function. If municipalities can operate under these rules that have higher budget revenues in 2015 and 2016, then it is a matter of the management of the municipality, not entering any moment in the debate individually as who led the municipality, it is a matter of will for citizens. I'm a little bit more liberal, and it's not even those presidents of the county's fault. You have this local administration assembly that votes, you have the Ministry of Finance, no one's going to say in 2010, it's been changed by the Law of Duty when you no longer have a limit of 50% of your current debt. The finance ministry must give consent, but citizens should be responsible and realize that the consequences of their poor functioning must be borne by themselves. I know that the problem of decentralisation is a problem that hurts everyone. The third argument, and we are not in favour of decentralisation, and we are not in favour of decentralisation and certainly the state of Serbia must go into the process of decentralisation. I don't mind that we don't understand each other, there's nothing controversial about it, you'll never vote for us like I've never voted for you. I'm like someone who's trying to learn something in the Republic of Parliament and trying to figure out what an economy is, one thing I know. All my life looking at some other governments that weren't SNS governments, I've seen monetary instability and fiscal problems, and today, when you talk about the functioning of the state, you're actually talking about some of the parameters that have been growing and others are macro-economically failing and disappearing. And today, when I see from 2015 and 2016 as an economist how macroeconomic parameters and monetary and fiscal policies look perfect, you are not from these political options to spoil my satisfaction. What you're going to do is your business. I do not care at all, I know that the government of the Republic of Serbia will remain remembered as the first government to remain practically too long after 2000, after 1914, in 1915, the period when Serbia had a fiscally strong and monetaryally stable policy, it remains remembered as the government that brought Serbia into normal fiscal and economic parameters. You know what's important, regardless of the opponents we have, regardless of the different misunderstandings of our economic ideas and economic policies, we continue to try to make Serbia an orderly society in which the rules will be respected. Because someone doesn't understand, they wouldn't understand it would lead their political party to 5%, they would sit in parliament, and their members who led up to 5% today voted for other political options.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2415	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2416	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I will talk about the amendment, as well as my previous speakers, colleagues. Therefore, the applicant for the amendment presented the reasons why amendments to the law on financing of local ones, which I agree with, should not be adopted. I'd like to get some more. As if we had been having a discussion these three days about putting aside the law on the financing of local self-government, we heard from the proposing representatives in the exchange of arguments about the reasons for the burden, which is why the law is not valid. Then why didn't we have the Law of Putting Off the Force of this Law? Why? Because we don't have another one. What did we get in exchange? We only got a change in the percentage of local self-government participation. If the law is wrong, one of the colleagues was speaking, I think even one of the representatives of the congregation's majority, why hasn't the law been amended since 2012? I was talking about how this law applies in the previous term and in this one, and in the one before. It applies as much as the parties who brought it. So, if it's changed in 2011, and only a year has it been applied by the party of the former regime, as we've had the opportunity to hear here. Why hasn't it changed since 2012? If it affects macroeconomic stability, why hasn't it changed in 2012? Furthermore, it is not true that local self-governments are shining due to changes in laws and diminished, as represented here. There are very unfortunate mayors, municipal presidents and other local officials, and believe the citizens and there are debates in many other places, not only in this law room, because citizens are following. Madam Minister, you're in the debate you've been having with us for three days, with the effort you've made, you haven't really provided evidence and justification for these changes. I spoke at the principle debate, and now it can do with the amendment, that you specifically damaged municipalities as one of the structures of local self-government. You have not answered many of the questions asked, and I expected that after the first day of the congregation assembly, some questions will be answered. I also made concrete suggestions. So you were able to make sure that the municipalities were reduced structurally by this percentage of the reduction by 447 million dinars. Why? We heard from one of the arguments on the Constitutional Affairs Committee that cities are recognized as desirable environments, so they should be further supported. So, I've informed you of the reason I heard on the board by the motionary's representative. That's no argument. So he's selective, restrictive by the municipalities. We're all worried about local self-government and we don't have to race, but we don't all take the same moves in favour of local self-government. This government move is not in favour of local self-government, and worst of all, in these three days we haven't received any evidence of why it is so much and how important for macroeconomic stability, if true, something one of the previous speakers said, mentioning 997 billion, so this is the participation of 0.048% in the budget. The answers to the questions you've given are really general, just like the explanation. So that's the consequence of making the law on the shortcut. Terminological discrepancies or perhaps essential. It is said here and resents that the criticism heard against the amendment of this law that we are saying that the state is taking something away from the municipalities. Well, it's true. So it comes down to a reduction in funds, and it can now be translated in this kind of folk language. Well, now, God damn it, she gave something, so now she can take it. Well, it's okay, it is the state's income, but the state has decided to make it the way it is now. Well, it wasn't the municipalities that fought to be like this themselves, but it brought it in, and some congregation meeting brought it in. We cannot be guided by the principle that I am banalizing the statement of one of our colleagues who, by his own recognition, has terrorised us here for 20 minutes, the opposition, we cannot be governed by the principle – I created you, I have the right to destroy you, the local self-government. So the state can abolish local self-government. He can create a new territorial organization, but is that the way to talk about such an important issue? The amendment of the law is restrictive and selective, and it's proven, that's what you admit at the end of the day. You've accepted a good part of the argument during this debate, some silence, something that you've learned. You've built a certain fence against the government's policy, personally, because you wanted to, apparently by claiming that you're not a member of any political party, that you objectively view things. Does this mean that the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors of any party, but the SNS do not view the objective situation in their local self-government for this? You have announced an amendment to the law, but during this change it can only be an apology that during the next amendments to the law or the adoption of a new one, we still don't know that at this time, you will balance or correct that injustice that is done to local self-government, and those who have taken care of local budgets, they have also accounted for macroeconomic stability in our country, they have been particularly damaged. You were talking about a compensatory suit as a model to help those local self-governments that will be in trouble, especially after the adoption of the amendments to this law. Well, all local self-government will be in trouble, all local self-government, and that compensatory model will have to entail at least as much money as this law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. As an exit from such a difficult situation to local self-government, it is recommended that they write a little better local property, not local property, excuse me, property that is subject to that local property tax that is not listed well. But property exists even if it isn't listed, but we don't have taxpayers on a large part of the property. So, what do we do then? Serbia is emptying out for us. There are no students in schools. We have property. We don't have any bonds. We have schools, there are fewer students. I'm not blaming you for that. It's one process that happens, but it's a circumstance in which we pass a law like this. I particularly note that if macroeconomic stability has already been achieved and without this downsizing of 4.8 billion dinars, and 40m euros is needed to merge into the republican budget, why is there no intended purpose? If you already have a intention, if you're solid, if you have an understanding of local self-governments that will be in trouble, why don't you determine the purpose of 4.8 billion dinars and say so – this will be used for example. for local self-government regional development projects that cannot be financed individually? Let me give you another negative example of where the means are compromised. She's hitting local self-government. We've had floods over the past few years. Yes, the state has been generous and helpful, but local self-government has helped and endured a great burden, and you know well that by amending the law in 2010 or 2011, it doesn't matter what year it was, that water compensation as a dedicated source of income has been transferred as a budget revenue and that part of that income is then transferred to water-flow companies and that it directly endangers local self-government. I have merely cited this as an example, an expression of how important it is for the means to be determined clearly and to know the rules in which they are available. You've made a lot of oral announcements about what will happen, but no regulatory guarantee has been provided that local self-government can expect such an announcement and opportunity. The criticisms heard here with a certain amount of doubt that they will be done politically and in some other way can really stand. A few colleagues are instructed examples of good or bad practice. I will give an example of good practice and one example of bad practice. An example of good practice is the Municipality of Great Plan by August 2015 and the example of bad practice of the Municipality of Velika Plan after August 2015. Surely you have at the Ministry of Local Self-Government that the Municipality of Great Plan until August 2015 had fifty fewer employees than the allowed number, that it had no day of blockade. When we talk here about the former regimes, I don't know exactly what that means, so one of my colleagues told me that they were political groups or individuals who were public officials in the previous period, and I'm a representative of the former local regime of course in the Great Plan, and these are examples of good practice. The Municipality of Velika Plana relied not only on the state budget, but in co-operation with Smederjevska Palanka, the correction of a colleague from Smederjevska Palanka, together provided 10.5m euros for the realisation of the regional water pipeline. It's very important that you deal with the future, Madam Minister, with local personnel. In the political part, you should influence the amendment of the law that will filter quality in elections. You know what I'm talking about, and when it comes to employees, let's not brag that our salaries are low in the public sector. Low wages in the public sector and announcements that it will be permanently or at least medium-term, and perhaps long-term, that means a lack of quality or a shift in quality from local self-government and public sector. Therefore, it is necessary to balance quality and give opportunity to high-quality people that as experts, as officials, as engineers prove themselves also in the public sector. When we talk about development, someone mentioned even development. In addition to even development, we also have a balanced lack of development. I think we're getting closer to this second half, evenly undeveloped. Let me tell you right now that I agree with you that even development is much more difficult to achieve than even undeveloping. This law will surely be passed. It's not a dispute, but not by justice, but by the right of strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2417	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2418	Thank you. Since I don't have much time, I've carefully read all the amendments, suggestions. I just want to say that I think I've been trying, I've really done my best to make sure that in the last 72 hours, together with the committees, explain to the citizens and the MPs why this law is important. If we want to simulate, we can simulate and say that it is important, in the end, was also because of the rapid positive conclusion of the IMF, which is important for Serbia, which in fact shows that Serbia is a serious, responsible country that is a secure and stable partner, and this government proves and this is important to this prime minister as well. It is very important to me, once again, to mention to all those who follow the transmission and to all the MPs, that two principles were important to whom we were guided. The first, that the poorest local self-government and the second were least affected, was taken from the city of Belgrade, as much as 40% of this burden that we propose falls on the city of Belgrade, because the city of Belgrade has the biggest income from profit tax and the city of Belgrade is certainly, and only because it has the status of the capital, largely economically privileged. I can put the amendments in three groups, but the most amendments propose to raise participation in the profit tax for local self-governments a little bit, but less than under the 2011 law, but therefore the biggest group of amendments says Belgrade has increased its participation in the profit tax more than in the 2011 law by 5%, 8%, 10%, 15% and 17%, respectively. So, to give Black Grass at best 77%, and to Belgrade 87% of the stake in profits. This is not even development, and I don't understand why the MPs had the desire to reward the city of Belgrade compared to all other municipalities and cities in Serbia, that they go less than in the 2011 law and that Belgrade goes up to 17% more than in the 2011 law. This is not even development, this has not been a serious amendment to me, and this is saying that the entire debate of 72 hours involving both government representatives and the finance ministry, all of you MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this was one farce that proves that even regional development here was not the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2419	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2420	To state some more reasons why we cannot support the amendments to this law, which is why something needs to change. The first thing is an argument in the law that says the proposed solutions have been agreed with the IMF and that it is in fact their request, i.e. a requirement for even more funds to be taken away by local self-governments and transferred to the central level due to a reduction in the budget deficit. We do not think that any country has flourished by cooperating with the IMF, because you have no example in the world that one sovereign country is, and as far as I know, the Prime Minister of this government is not missing a single chance to say that we are a sovereign country and that we are deciding our own destiny and that no one on the side can interfere, so this argument is not in line with that the IMF can interfere with us and that the IMF approves us of an increase in electricity price or requires us to cut our share in profits by local self-governments, etc. Another important thing we can't support this is the further collapse of the local self-government budget. I also spoke to the board that a huge number of local self-governments in Serbia are in major financial problems, that not so few of these local self-governments are in a constant blockade and that they are struggling to pay even basic contributions to budget users, to pay salaries, let alone think about some development. I did not hate me, so I looked at the budgets of local self-government, i.e. the specific city of Nis from 2006, 2007 and 2008 to compare how much of the funds were collected from 40% of the profits, how much there was then, how much we received from the transfer of the Republic and to compare these figures in real and nominal amount then and what is proposed today. It turns out that the city of Nis was then receiving, which from the state level, which he collected from the income tax, or 40% from the profit tax, that he was earning about 3.1 billion dinars or, according to the euro rate then, almost 40m euros. Today, it collects about 33.6 billion dinars under this current law or, according to today's course, about 30m euros, which is actually less than 10m euros. This reduction in Nis will deprive about 200 million dinars, which means approximately one five, six kindergartens, maybe ten kilometers of asphalt, water lines, sewers, and who knows what not. We cannot agree with the explanation of individual MPs either, because it is simply incomprehensible to us that by reducing the percentage procedure of local self-government, they will still receive more funding. It simply conflicts with the elemental logic and I won't waste any more words about it. What bothers us most is that local self-government will thus be denied about five billion dinars, which will deprive the city of Belgrade, which by municipalities, which in all of the cities, about five billion dinars, and that there will be so-called. Compensation measures where central authorities will approve individual projects with different local self-governments. Nor do we know by what criteria, nor do we know what and we simply do not realize that it is one of the reasons why these amendments of the law should be accepted. If we consider that we have about 150 municipalities in Serbia and that one of the most ordinary projects cannot be below 30, 40 million dinars, whatever it is you multiply, it's a minimum figure of 7.8 billion dinars, if we want to help all local self-government with only one project. It's just not normal for one person or central government to have control over eight billion dinars, and probably more, to share it with local self-governments like they're underage and not know what they're supposed to do, but the central government will assess what's more important to the city of Nishu, Babushnica or any other municipality, road, lighting, plumbing, sewerage or whatever. I think it's one humiliating relationship and any further collapse of the local self-government budget will lead to inconceivable consequences. We cannot support this, because we believe that local self-governments, both under the Constitution and under the Law on Local Self-Government, have their own right and their own budgets and the obligation to take care of their own development, and when you deny them the means you practically violate the Constitution by not allowing them to freely develop their own local self-government and to take care of their own development.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2421	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2422	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, so I listened carefully to the amendment to Article 1 and what we could hear today is the highlight of hypocrisy because those who made the biggest debts, those who left local self-government with 1.7 billion debts, such as Smederevska Palanka, Indija 1.5 billion, Vrbas 1.5 billion, Belgrade, which took over in 2013 from the provisional body, was in the debt of 960m euros, the AP Vojvodina, which, based on the DRI's two billion dinars, spent non-intentional, come into the situation to talk here about how local budgets should be available. All these water pipelines and kindergartens that need to be built have been replaced with jeeps, apartments in Vienna, foreign foreign currency accounts, just those individuals who ran those local self-governments. This is the highlight of hypocrisy that should simply be told citizens of Serbia today, that they went about the cost of citizens, not only the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, but also the budgets of local self-government in the cities from which they come. What's important to say today is that the amendments to Article 1, there were 20 of them, can be divided into two groups. One group was completely done in one symmetry stereotype, type – deleted, and the rest was done in a creative way, just the type you were talking about, Madam Minister, that it was required that the percentage given to local self-government transfers be greater than 80%, higher than it was in the 2011 decision. It is precisely showing the highest degree of unseriousness of any co-operation and desire to support this kind of law in a constructive way. What to say is that such a degree of indifference shows a fundamental desire to experience political glory in two minutes of the interpretation of the amendments and that we are adding to something that we cannot afford, because it does not exist in local self-government as a form of opportunity for local self-government to survive all those debts that remained to cities and municipalities from those who ruled one, two, and some and three mandates, but now these MPs have come to honor us with high moral values. Such moral values are simply not frames to bear. For this reason, it should be said that these amendments proposed to Article 1 should also be used as a kind of coverage of all those marifetteluks run by these local self-governments, all those activities which are state auditors and which the police authorities and income administrations had in their reports an opportunity to assess in the way in which they were indeed, in an inadequate manner, led. It is therefore entirely justified that the Ministry of Finance did not support any such amendment, because it shows in what way and which was the objective of all these amendments. It should therefore be said that these amendments are the beginning of a reform of the public finances of local self-government and should be fully supported by all MPs by the refusal of such amendments. Therefore, in the voting day, we will simply support what was possible at this time, and this is the proposal for a law in the original amendments and additions, reducing practically the percentage of tax transfers from 3% to 6%, and the city of Belgrade is 4%. And exactly what you said, that the simple city of Belgrade will support the virtually greatest burden of support for local budgets precisely because in that percentage the city of Belgrade is 4% of the earnings they will be denied, the minimum income is denied, practically the tax of the poorest municipalities. It's up to us to work on a new concept of law. Public debates have passed, the Ministry of Finance has practically prepared a new concept, but it is obvious that local self-government has not been able and ready to support the new concept for now. That is why this first step was necessary, and anyone who is well-intentioned will simply support such a proposal to amend and supplement the law that you have given, and all those who simply want to transfer to another field of politics are not the people to talk about it at all today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2423	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I've listened very carefully and I'll talk about the amendment. So why is the amendment “wipe out”? Well, for the simple reason to wipe it off. If the amendment is adopted as such, it will not be valid to change the law. Right? And why do we say that? A moment ago the Honorable Chairman, then from the pay phone, said one thing that I absolutely agree with him. The key thing is to create real jobs. Why do I, as a People's Messenger of the Kings, have this much fear and I am so against it? Because, gentlemen of the advanced party, in four years of your reign in the King, you have not opened a single real job with a single letter. It's clear to me if it's a new job that it's a new salary, that a new income tax is a part of it coming back, but what are we going to do when jobs are gone? No one opened them, that's why it's fear. What if in those four years it wasn't a single dinar of incentives from the budget for a small enterprise that was supposed to open a job? These are verifiable data. I told you yesterday, Madam Minister, you may not have heard that. Here, I tell you, come, call me, I'll repeat before power. What's going on now? Something that happens to me as a man who is a member of another political option who thinks absolutely differently about thousands of things, but I'm never deluded, it's not clear to me, and I don't understand that if an advanced party chooses as mayor of a young man, a doctor of science, how can he choose as his adviser from the SPS a man who is a florist by interest? Why? Because there's something called a coalition agreement that's about stronger than the law and stronger than anything else. It's my fear from there and I won't vote from there, and I really listen very carefully, and I am grateful to Mr. Chairman for explaining to me the fireman's problem. I don't think anything good about a yellow company that's been falling apart for a long time, but I want things to move and I want you to understand that someone can have a constructive approach to things from the opposition. Do not be embellished by something that may be constructive and good advice and a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2425	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, of course, this amendment should not be supported, but all we've heard from the opposition today is grief, least of all. It's sad, it's pathetic, it's horrible. What an amendment, like the opposition. No amendment, no opposition, unfortunately. It's not good for a country's democracy. It is important to have a good opposition, it is important to have a constructive opposition, but not to have someone who does practically nothing, except spends time on Serbian citizens. Today these gentlemen were talking about pensioners, talking about young people. A mouthful of care for pensioners and young people. Well, do you know how many young people you've driven from this country from 2000 to 2012. There are different estimates, from the media favoring you to the slightly milder ones. There's a range of 500,000 to a million. So 500,000 to a million young people have left this country. Some are estimates that out of Serbia there are 7,000 doctors living in science. One educated young man costs Serbia 300,000 euros. So 300,000 euros costs you a young perspective student. The 300,000 euros per person you have thrown and given to another country to use that potential which is Serbia's potential. You cared so much about young people. So much for your concern for Serbia's future. They take care of these gentlemen and the babies. I have a three-year-old daughter, and I can't imagine my Sara doesn't have water tonight. How many children in one of the municipalities don't have water every night? They don't have kids every night. Maybe that gentleman bathed in beer, probably, so he got used to what a man would do, but the kids don't bathe in beer. The children need water, sir. What to do, you're used to it. She takes care of the kids. Hetherland. We will repeat to you Hetherland as long as you sit in this assembly. As long as you have one single vote, we're going to repeat this Hetherland, 1.5 million kidnapped by children distracted by development. Shame on you! Shame on you! Well, shame on you, sir! (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Why didn't you arrest? Don't get it. Only primitive and simple people do that. What do we do? I can't raise you. The one he wanted didn't make it. That's not my problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2427	Mr Filipovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2428	Of course, young people are looking for a normal life, looking for a job, looking for a future. Every week, jobs are being opened every day in Serbia. That's what my predecessors were talking about. Republika Srpska Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is doing a very concrete and serious job for the country. We as MPs should help in this business, in the business of opening factories, in a business where there is a normal legal system in this country, where citizens should live better. It's easy, so you get drunk. Those of you who laugh, it's easy for you. Who knows how many bottles of beer have gone tonight. What do we do? You say there's no pâté for children. So keep those ducks, pâtés and beer to yourself. Keep it to yourself. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Mr. Arsic, please do not speak to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2429	Mr Filipovic, I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2430	Well, and it's about the amendment, of course, since the amendment is nothing, what to do, and the opposition, we can't do any different. Because their pâté was a subject, too, so I have to look back on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2431	Well, that's a good one, but that's a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2432	When it comes to pensions and understanding of pensioners, so the pensioners showed in the elections several months ago who they supported. They don't support those who have led the state to ambience, to bankruptcy. If you were so good, you'd be smiling, and you'd win that election. You can't win, but you'll never win again. What do we do? Your pensioners won't vote for you. People won't vote to get into a situation where they don't have a pension in the 21st century. You've brought them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2433	Mr Filipovic, I ask you to return to the amendment. So it's wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2434	Of course, I will be against that amendment anyway. To end, never in this country have those who take away from children, who have led to the bankruptcy of the country, who have few three hundred and how few, colleagues Markovic, a bottle of beer, who have left the citizens without water, 350, 1,050, who leave the citizens without water, who promise only ducks and pastures, who do not like "Belgrade on water", who would re-indebted Belgrade by 20%, who would like to raise Serbia's debt, will no longer be in power. I'm proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2435	I'll have to delete the list of fellow MPs. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2436	Article 107 has been injured. Of course, it is the dignity of the National Assembly – it is not allowed to directly address the People's MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other MPs. This is certainly not an atmosphere where we can get something smart, nor a minister to get some good advice on what she could do or correct in her approach to local self-government. I'm not happy that you're getting that kind of trust and that in this way you can broadcast a relationship to political inexperience. I will tell you the following: I cheer for the success of the minister who is here in the hall with us because I want to fix life in every city, in every municipality in Serbia, as I cheer for a good mayor in my city. Unfortunately, the past four years have been lost because nothing has been done in Nis. I hope this mayor will be more successful because this is where my children live, because this is where the citizens of Nis live, I am rooting for the success of all the mayors in Serbia, and I have neither a shred of hatred for you nor for them. Here we try to talk about arguments by contributing to a better law, a better relationship and a way for local self-government to contribute to the quality of life in their environments. I really think, Chairman, that you've had to react in this way to this kind of hate speech that we've all heard in the Assembly, and I'm sure the Minister hasn't heard anything useful from this. I hope that in the future you will respond to this kind of hatred in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2437	Mr. Kiric, I think you've used too much of the word "hate." That the atmosphere in the O.R. isn't what we expect right now, but that's not the atmosphere that makes the president, but fellow MPs, making arguments or their political views while they have the right to speak. I am really trying to be correct towards all my fellow Members, realizing that there is also a law being talked about here, but that someone wants to send a political message because this is where politics should be conducted, among other things. If I were to listen to a fellow MP who says that someone is taking from the children a pâté, and then a free ride, and this, and that is not being warned by the chairman, expect that such a treatment will preside over the other side that will say something similar, accusing the other side again. So, if you want us to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, as soon as someone comes out of the amendment section, regardless of which political party they come from, I will warn him once or twice to return to the amendment, and then I will use the rights of the Rules of Procedure that belong to me, the least right is to turn off the microphone, but then you will not be satisfied either you or them. I can only appeal to all the heads of Parliament to influence their MPs and to reduce the tensions in discussions, as much as possible, so that we can continue our normal work. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yes, you do. All right. Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would use the time of the parliamentary group, if you would allow me, to address the minister with one constitution and two proposals, as a non-partisan MP to a non-partisan member of the government who was elected as Minister of State and Local Self-Government at the last session of the Assembly and, unfortunately, at the first session of the next, or this one, survived only as Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2439	You'll have to pick up the amendment, now I'm here. No one wants to talk about the amendment. You'll have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2440	Yes, I am talking about the amendment, why it is necessary to support the amendment "expect".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2441	So, the fact that the minister has been elected is indisputable. Now say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2442	The amendment further worsens regional imbalances in development, starting with the government. We have a government of 20 members, with 19 members from Vojvodina and Belgrade, and only one minister without portfolios under Vojvodina and Belgrade. It speaks eloquently of the unequal political approach of the prime minister, but the majority voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2443	Ambassador, I appreciate your opinion in general, but you have to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2444	About the amendment and I'm talking, these are political preconditions for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2445	No, you want a general debate, and I'll get you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2446	If it were a different composition of the government, the question is whether a bill like this would have been proposed. Also, if we had a representative in this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2447	"The city of Belgrade belongs to 70% of the profit tax, replaced by the words: "The cities belong to 77% and the city of Belgrade is 66% of the profit tax". That's what the amendment debate looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2448	Can I spend the time of the parliamentary group or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2449	You can't talk about the amendment at all. You can spend time on the amendment, otherwise you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2450	Why should the amendment be supported – deleted? Because the draft law, by the government, will practically cause the most damage to agriculture. I spoke the other day, but it was a short time and I couldn't make any suggestions. After the session was over, I approached the Minister's office and we had a conversation on a proposal. Today I want to say that practically this reduction will not affect the number of employees in local self-government, it will not hit a reduction in their salaries, because they have already been reduced, but therefore the reduction will be the most experienced by agriculture, which is the fourth financial impact on agriculture. The first blow is that five years is not an accredited agrarian payment administration and there is practically no possibility of withdrawing EU funds. The second blow is that in 2015, subsidies were reduced... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2451	Ambassador, you need to talk about the amendment. I really can't let the general debate repeat itself. You mention the amendment, and then you keep saying whatever you want. That's not the point. (Miladin Ševarlic, from the post: Let me tell you about the amendment. That's the only thing you say about the amendment, and everything else is a general debate. I'll give you my word on the next amendment. (Miladin Ševarlic, from the site: Please allow me to talk about the amendment – delete. I'm really a little bit more rigorous when I run the sessions, especially when it comes to amendments. That's how I run the sessions. Thank you. And after all my warnings, you're still not talking about the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, who is not at the meeting. Does anyone want to debate his amendment? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2452	Dear Minister, distinguished members of the minister's team, respected chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic on behalf of the Parliament's group "Enough was enough" envisions three fundamental changes to the original bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the Assembly for adoption. We believe that three things must necessarily be changed, because if they do not, certain consequences will occur for the normal functioning of local self-government and we will simply have one net damage in the state. The first thing, when it comes to one of the three items that we planned with this amendment to propose to change, is about renting or renting real estate. We believe that it is fundamentally wrong to transfer this business from the municipal level to a republican level and that only observing the property owned by private persons as capital is a rather discriminatory concept. Because capital is usually tied to private companies, state firms or mixed-owned companies. As a term, it doesn't bind to physical faces. We think that there is also a big problem that we mentioned in the debate in principle, and this is a question of motivation of local self-government that in conditions where, based on the solutions provided for by this law, certain funds are removed, when the way to come to compensatory giving is somewhat complicated, that simply these solutions raise the question of the motivation of local self-government units to do the job properly. One of the largest areas of the grey economy in Serbia has just been renting apartments, houses and we have great problems in covering these contracts fiscally, i.e. those who are renters of residential space pay taxes on that, which are prescribed by law. Here the question arises whether local self-governments would be more motivated to raise these funds for themselves than in this case, when it is moved to the level of the Republic? We had a very similar tax, real estate tax, and we had big problems with how local self-government treated it. And it took a lot of effort to improve the process in some units of local self-government. We made it somewhere as a state, we did it in some municipalities, but somewhere the results are very thin. It has always been a logic that you have local self-government and that the local head of local self-government thinks whether it's better to let things stand the way they are and hope for the complementary givings of the Republic or to contribute to a job that is very unpopular, and it's about his money, or money that local self-governments could collect for themselves. In this case, we see that a fundamental problem could arise, and that is the question of the motivation of local self-government. It is a question that we need to seriously consider and that is one question where I am deeply convinced, if we look at a consolidated state of Serbia, with all levels of government, that the net effect of the transfer from one level of government to another will be a certain degree of tax ejaculation. And at a time when we live today, at a time where we have considerable difficulties, not to lie, we haven't solved many of our economic problems, we're fortunate to live at a time of low interest, low prices of oil derivatives and one rise at all in conukture throughout the region, I think we have to take care of every euro and I deeply support it. So, I think it should be left to the municipalities in charge, to collect taxes from renting real estate. Also, in the amendment, we predict that the solution by which the percentage of municipalities retains is reduced based on the income tax. We think that there is no valid justification and that at the republican level savings can be achieved in another way. We think there are much more generous points in the state budget where it can be saved and that it would be good at those points to save. There are many such points in our lives. For example, if you think a little more carefully about where subsidies are given, I am convinced that we could save significant amounts of money. There were other alternatives. Let's say, a much more approachable work on public enterprise reform, where at almost a monthly level in some companies we have a waste of money measured in billions of dinars. For example, Bor - almost a billion and 250 million each month. So we think that in other places, if there's already a way to go, or to increase revenue or to cut expenditure, there were better places to do that. We are deeply convinced, and I know from my personal experience, at least I had the chance to attend the talks with the IMF in 2013 and I know one thing, which is that they never say – well, you have to do that. No, they say -- we come as representatives of the creditors of Serbia, you're a country that's in debt, and the current government and the previous one is even more, and the government of the '90s, and Broz is in charge, and the king, so that's the process, we're always in debt as a state, and the biggest problem is that we didn't have good effects from that borrowing, they come to Serbia and they say -- come on, okay, how are you going to solve the problems, how can we not run out of our money? How are you gonna do that? Give us your best suggestion, though we say – we can do it in different ways. So I am fully convinced that the IMF did not say – transfer from municipality to the Republic so much and so much and cannot otherwise. I'm totally convinced of that. Of course, we can have different beliefs and that is not controversial. So we simply think that there was a better way, that and rationalization in the public sector, where we have a paradoxical situation in each of the municipalities, where the average mayor or the average mayor of the municipality will tell you what your employment problem is, each of which will tell you, who understands the functioning of his municipality -- I have 50 people extra and 50 people missing. Was there room for a nice reform of local self-government to find and to do so in a better way? And that's where I'm going to call on the same attitude as the colleagues who spoke before me. This is a partial thing and we are deeply hoping, because I know that you understand the functioning of local self-government and that this is one move that is not systemic, and that we have a systemic problem, which is repeated from year to year, from decade to decade, and that this is a pretty terrible thing for all of us living in Serbia and we want to have a normal division of power, a vertical, beautiful division of power between the Republic and the municipalities, between the province, the local communities, whatever the level of government in Serbia can be, and that we need to look for a systematic solution and to once come up with a solution that is one beautiful measure that can function within a long time period and that we can really all agree on. We've heard so many tones here that, how can I say, they're emotional tones. We differ both the position and the opposition over many things, we have different views of the world. I'm sorry when they say some about their colleagues, as much as I can criticize them for doing bad or commending them for doing good or for doing bad now, or for doing good, no one is completely bad or totally good at it. At the end of the day, the citizens of the verdict. We don't have enemies here, we don't have people we'll never agree with. We only have unthinkers and we disagree on some things, but what I am deeply convinced and what would be the best thing that we could afford as a single society, there are committees here where there is agreement on some strategic goals of Serbia, and there are nuances. I think anyone, but anyone in this room, could agree that we need to have a healthy, vertical division of power and that we need to get out as soon as possible without being in a country where we have a lot of partial solutions. I'm glad you heard all this very carefully, because I know you have something to say. I'm sorry at the end that you got tired, so you said you didn't hear anything very clever. A little bit of here has gotten into some political struggles that have occasionally gone in a bad direction because we're wasting time, preciously, instead of exchanging arguments and looking for a good system solution. So what I can say for sure is that we need a system solution and that these partial measures don't lead anywhere. What is certain is that when you deprive municipalities of resources, some will react well, and indeed there are municipalities that are examples of good practice, where they have delivered good results from the young, but most of the municipalities are not particularly good or particularly bad, and they will behave as they always do. The big question is whether we'll be able to do it within a reasonable time frame, before we get to a system solution, to get some behavior that won't mean coming back to the businessmen and looking for money, not looking for parafiscals again, not going back to the wheel, getting the Republic in one place, and losing municipalities. I don't think there's a conflict there and it shouldn't be, but what I think and what we're always going to say is the most ideal system solution is where we have as few discretionary powers, where we have as many original incomes in both places and as many clear rules as possible and that we should go in that direction and say, okay, from our point of view we can differ in many things and it's perfectly natural. And it's perfectly natural for someone to defend a solution that gives more money to the Republic. It is one completely different view of how the relations of the center and the municipalities should function. And it's completely legitimate to defend. We can argue that it won't be good because we have experience from the 1990s, from the twenty-thousands. We have experience when we have centralised and different solutions and we can argue, of course. It is perfectly legitimate to argue and the opposite thing, time will show, but what would be very good is that from our rich experience of failed decentralisation in Serbia we try to learn every lesson we have so far and that from these lessons perhaps we better predict what may be the consequences. We're skeptical, we're really skeptical, but we wish we weren't right. We would really like this proposal to be really net good for both the municipalities and the Republic, we would love it very much. We do not want any government of Serbia to fail and to build our brains on the fact that someone has failed. It's a terrible principle in life, especially in policymaking, and especially in this case, if you're suggesting to run a country. So our experience in the past tells us that it's only going to be one spill away from the community and moving to the Republic, and that what we need right now is really one system view, one systemic thing. What we're always afraid of, one of the principal things, we think that the concentration of power in anyone's hands is a bad thing, the concentration of discretionary power is also a bad thing, and it's a lot of power when you have compensatory transfers. We should avoid them as much as we can, because there's too much temptation that we have when we're doing reforms. There are too many people who feel damaged or who think they can get something from something like this or something that can happen when reforms are made. All in all, this amendment essentially calls for solutions not to be adopted, and that's obvious. We've changed three things. We think it would be much better to give up on a law like this. We have our arguments as to why we say so, and to go to one system solution, which could lead some things in Serbia to the right place, not to look for too many arguments that we would very strictly argue that what the other party claims is the best possible or worst possible thing and that this is the right solution and the right path to go. I'll say it one more time, I want us to succeed. If there are such proposals that are related to a healthy relationship, one long-term sustainable relationship, one relationship that would be built on the best practices of the most successful countries, on our part the opposition will have partners to support you in this process and it is not controversial, but at this point we really, taught experiences, let's say, we've heard a lot of stories today where, I don't know now, the ruling party is saying that these were the worst before it. We also heard for eight years that those 1990s were the worst in the world. In the meantime, we heard that a party that returned to parliament was the worst. That's what the current majority said about them being the worst. We have been able to learn much from these mistakes, and these mistakes warn us. From these mistakes we draw one dose of skepticism that this won't be the best thing in the world. That's why we're voting against it. That's why we tried to say the same thing to these amendments. It is our call to go the system way and we will be very happy to be a very constructive partner and it will not occur to us that we are bringing amendments concerning the fact that the text of the law is actually rejected in an implicit way. Thank you for your attention, and I wish you every good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2453	You've wasted your time with authority. The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2454	Thank you. I ask you first to give me my time from the moment you interrupted me, or when you had sex with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2455	I can't get the time back. You have two minutes and 18 seconds. Go ahead, spend it any way you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2456	Thank you very much. I'll leave it to another member of the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2457	There's no letting go of time. There's no such thing. You have to learn the rules. You're not going to let some of your time go. It's something innovative. There's no such thing. The word is Ana Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2458	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Brnabic, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will not support this amendment. That amendment is in complete contrast with the effects the proposed law should adopt, i.e. contrary to ensuring macroeconomic stability and reducing the overall fiscal deficit. By adopting this amendment, we are completely changing the policy course that has been conducted so far, and it is good and effective. That's certainly not what we're after. We will agree that Serbia is finally on track. The reforms were never popular, they were never easy, but the people supported us, and for that reason, we are obliged to provide him with a stable state and a stable future. For that reason, I would disagree with my colleagues who assured us that this was exclusively an IMF law. We are a sovereign state, a state that knows how to think for itself, knows how to decide for itself, but we also know that we recognize good examples from world practice, and we want to put them in our country. When we talk about this amendment, we don't accept it because this law is exactly in cohesion with those good examples of world practice. What is of great importance to us, which we talked about the other day, is that local self-government was fully involved. If I remember correctly, you said about 105 local self-government. For this reason, we are absolutely aware that this is something that the local self-governments fully support. For what reason do they support it? They support it because they know we're not talking about full centralization here, as some colleagues are insinuating here, but the idea here is to adopt amendments to the law that will give meaning to local self-government. How's that? By creating a good system of developed countries, which we aim to create a good system-organized decentralisation that will be fully controlled. With her work, this government has paid enough attention to all parts of our country. For that reason, I absolutely don't care when we talk about some centralization of a part of the funds. On the other hand, we are getting from this government a mechanism for developing local self-government through a decentralisation strategy that will again take into account all local self-government and will again take into account the resources they need. In this way, they will be able to carry out their tasks in their responsibilities. I believe that the adoption of these amendments will definitely produce better results than the law adopted in 2011, which we are sure was adopted for political reasons, and we have no doubt that this law is, in fact, the law. This amendment to the law in favour of our citizens. And as many suggest that this law that we are adopting today is for political purposes, I would indeed accept it with great satisfaction and thank you this way also to the Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia for today, when most of the presidents of the local self-government are from the ruling coalition, it is today that law on the agenda that makes us sure that citizens are first in this government and that this budget is spent domestically, not partyally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2459	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2460	I believe that this amendment, which Sasa Radulovic has submitted, is not good because our experience, the Constitution and all the positive laws in the state of Serbia, regulate that residence is mostly used in the exercise of electoral rights and all other privileges that a full-time citizen can, after all, achieve in the territory of local self-government. The problem here is that, Madam Minister, this law and this redistribution are now the IMF's assets in whose claws, in a literal sense, Serbia, are something that will cause a negative effect. First of all, because the proposer of this amendment didn't explain it, but here's why I'm going to rely on what I don't agree with. What I disagree with is that this law will have a very bad impact on the possibility of budget projections for the upcoming 2017, because this is like thunder from the clear sky for many units of local self-government and economic local development and imbalance in this respect in the whole country is the biggest problem. Now I ask SNS MPs, since most of them are in power in local self-government or were, some are in the second, third term -- are you and how successful you are, and that is the key to survival of development, progress, future, as Vucic likes to say – the future for us and our children, to manage to bring in an investor yourself, to open up a factory, to open up new jobs, or to entrepreneurship, and we are here in the year of entrepreneurship, is not based only on floscules and empty promises? I don't know if any of you tried anything like that. I have this experience, and when you come to the National Employment Service and you have a healthy project, and I think personally, here, from my experience, I'm saying that I had it, and I still have it for the work that I've defined as an entrepreneur to do, you absolutely don't have the support of the state for that kind of thing. There's no talking here about whether it's a woman or a man, because this is a declared year for women entrepreneurs to get investments and the possibility of staying in that place to live, to support themselves, their family and their children. And all this is so easy on the words, and Minister Brnabic will agree with me that economic local development is the key to everything. Right? Without it, there's no movement. We, Madam Minister, a few years ago, seemed to me, in 2008, by law in the National Assembly of Serbia, to be based on the Constitution and the law of 17 cities in Serbia. Of these 17 cities, none of them have any established municipality, except the city of Nis, which has its five city municipalities. That's familiar. So that's one stupid thing, one farce and nothing further moved than that. How many fellow MPs, now not to speak individually, from the former DOS and SNS who are in charge of these cities? The statute of the city is a dead letter on paper. There are no investments, and I'm not talking about that we're also mostly part of the insistence of the SRS, even though we were the opposition then, and also now, to improve life and allow local self-government to start new businesses and develop, we've established the Free Customs Zone Act. None of these zones have functioned, nor has a foreign investor been brought in or anyone who wants to invest in such a business. Now we come to this – how will local self-government survive when there are no new jobs, when wages are very difficult to provide? From entrepreneurship the hardest, believe me, because it's harder and harder for these small entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises to pay taxes and profits and come into a whirlwind. In the town of Kragujevac alone, more than six thousand businesses submitted a request by 31 March this year for a tax debt reprogramme. What am I telling you? As minister to you. Perhaps you didn't know, you have an overview for all of Serbia, that it's a big problem to provide a healthy job and a healthy substance from which to pay the wages, and hence the profits. That might not be a problem, then, if this reduction, directly in the IMF's dictatorship, had more jobs and the inflow in the municipality's budget was higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2461	Small suggestion – Fireman, Nis, Užice, Vranje have urban municipalities. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2462	As a professor, I must express my surprise and astonishment as to how much ignorance is present among MPs when a debate is being held on such matters. I do not want to repeat what Kovacevic said, but if it is not clear to the MPs, when the income is the rate of time, that income can remain the same if the rate decreases. Why? Because the base can increase. That's what one MP said and he went outside. In such a situation, dialogue is very difficult. That's really unreasonable. I think the people are just surprised to hear this kind of discussion. Look what it's all about. The fiscal council announced on September 5th that the profit tax, instead of the envisioned 149.5, would be 155 billion. What does that mean? If this law to be applied from 1 January 2017, it is now applicable, at this point no local community would get less money. Why? Because 149,5 times 80 is equal to 155 times 77, that's simple. Even those local communities where the profit tax rate is higher in the total budget, they would get more. It's simple stuff. When someone doesn't understand it, and I've been listening to scary stories here, then the discussion on this subject is pointless. I don't want to repeat myself, to say what others have been saying, something completely new. Why is this decentralisation? Because local self-government, municipalities and cities must turn to themselves. So it's theirs to boost their original incomes. This is an arrears, this is the Republic's income, and we're going back to income. What's income? The rate of times the base times the circumference. So we have to try, or the ministry has to try to reduce the rate, to reduce the base, to pay smaller taxes, but to make it bigger, to make more citizens pay taxes and to make cities and citizens better. To achieve this, municipalities and cities must have the help of the ministry. I appeal that you work on it all the time, not only on property taxes, but on all projections where a citizen appears as a debtor. So, as many citizens as possible, and there will be more citizens, if the rate is less. Then the total income will be higher. One more thing for you as a tip, as a suggestion, is that you try to educate, I don't mean to order, municipalities and cities to write down their property. There's a lot of community presidents here, maybe even mayors, but I'm responsible for saying that a large number of municipalities and cities don't know what property he has. The property must be listed. This must be done by the ministry, which methods, which tools, in what way, but municipalities and cities must register their assets and then put that property into operation. It will also be better for local communities and citizens living in those local communities. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2463	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. They're not here anymore. On Article 1 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted. Does her group want to discuss it? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2464	We heard from the respected minister an argument that mostly MPs were making amendments demanding an increase in revenues and rates for the city of Belgrade, and a reduction for Montenegro and some municipalities. Here's an example of the amendment that's denying you. The amendment, which says that the rate, where you have proposed the Law from 80%, should be reduced to 74%, I suggest that for these municipalities the least underdeveloped and where there are the least jobs increase to 85%, while the city of Belgrade and other cities remain at the same level. So it is not true that all MPs were so evil that they sought money that would be poured out of the poor municipalities of southern Serbia or from the poorest municipalities of Serbia towards Belgrade. So here was the requirement to leave the level of income, in fact, the participation in profit tax for cities and the city of Belgrade at the same level, because of the argument we discussed, because of the way we really wake up the game where cities and municipalities, mayors, local self-government will fight for as many jobs as possible and where they will increase their income by opening up opportunities for investors and opening new jobs. What would that mean next? I really think that I will remind you of that issue from the plenary debate on the city of Belgrade, you said Belgrade would suffer the biggest consequences under this plan, conditionally said two billion less income with this reduction. I asked you if it was true that because of inefficientness, because of irresponsible calls not to pay tickets in the city transport of Belgrade, reduced revenues are replaced by the transfer in 2014 of two billion, just as much as the city of Belgrade is now being reduced by this law? You said and I expected you to check it out, and I'm sure you did, because you had information about other cities very detailedly. Examples we've often heard of how irresponsible the mayors of the former regime have been, in debt to the cities, a large number of you were really right. Let's say the former mayor of the city of Nis, the former regime that was your member, is still your member. Nis has a new mayor, also from the SNS to whom I wish every success and because of him and for the citizens of Nis, we are truly struggling to keep as much revenue as possible for the cities that already have a very difficult situation. So the result of those last four years was exactly that, two and a half billion debts to the city of Nis. Do you know what percentage the planned budget is filled with? I'm sure you know, your associates know, with 60% of the city's budget in Nis last year. Is it possible that the city works effectively with such spills? It's not possible, and now we're going with the additional reduction and the law we're going to vote for here. We come into a really absurd situation to protect the mayors and try to protect some functions, and what are the consequences? The consequences are that there's no public lighting, because there's no bill paid. There are colleagues from Nis who know that you often pass through the city at night without public lighting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2465	You've wasted your time with authority. Would you like some of the group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2466	Yes, from the MP's group. So, since the city of Nis has failed to settle its debts due to such budgeting, and it will be even worse after the adoption of this law, we have the consequences that it is in the dark, we have the consequences of reduced traffic security, we have the consequences of a possible higher crime rate, because now it's really not safe to walk the city in the dark. We've got a problem with taking out the trash because it's less and less garbage and our city has never really been dirtier. We have a debt settlement problem in primary schools. We have a problem with debt settlement in primary health. I'm talking about the city of Nis, many former and present mayors will confirm that they have similar problems in their cities, but all this reflects on the quality and life of our fellow citizens. So we're not fighting here for a better status of mayor of SNS, 99% of them are from your party, we're fighting to improve the quality of life for all of our citizens. Speaking of debts, there are few two and a half billion of Nis's debt from 10 billion euros in borrowing this and previous governments from 2012 to 2016, and I think it is important that we open this debate and show that we are not even evil, that we are not looking forward to other people's failures, that we hope that we can contribute to these solutions to making cities as many opportunities as possible and as much resources as possible to solve the problems of the cities in which we all live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2467	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2468	Thank you very much. It is true, this amendment suggests that instead of 74% for local self-government, 85% would be nice, but it's certainly invaluable... (Goran Ciric: Throws out of place. At 85, unreal, it wouldn't be financially responsible, but it would be nice. But it is true, unfortunately, that the largest number of amendments, although there are also those that, the amendments, have been proposed by amendments where they fought for greater, more even, regional development and greater support for local self-governments that are poorer, which have less income than profit tax. Unfortunately, as many as five amendments, as many as five amendments speak exclusively about Belgrade being given more than it was in 2011. So it was even up to 17%. I understand that there are a large number of MPs from Belgrade, and I am from Belgrade, but we need to focus on other local self-governments as well. In this case, I welcome this amendment, but it is financially unsustainable and is therefore rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2469	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2470	Members of the SRS did not submit amendments to this law and what we really think about this law we said in the principle debate, but today when it comes to amendments and when we looked at all these amendments and opinions of the Government on amendments, the only conclusion is – what law, such amendments. You said your position which is why these cuts in local income and profit are at this percentage and you said – the aim is to fulfill the IMF's task of providing 4.8 billion dinars. Whether it could have been 4.9 or 5 billion, or 4, that's pretty casual. And even more than that, it's even more like what's proposed through the amendments. The amendments were clearly proposed, only to make a suggestion, and we think it's just as bad as your law. To guess now whether Belgrade needs 70, whether 80%, whether it needs someone to hear it in a place and say, "Here these are fighting to get us 5%, 10%, etc., it's all farce." It's all a farce. Especially, like today when we talked about the judges, it looks like it's going to be, it seems to me, the fate of this calls on Parliament, that we will mainly have a discussion between the former and the current regime, about the subject that they are actually looking at in the same way. None of them mind how long it takes for the IMF to take and share money, we Serbian radicals are absolutely against it and that's why we're different from both sides. On the other hand, when they talked about those amendments that erase this attitude, that is, where it goes back to that original law, I listen to the advances when they speak to the Democrats and talk about water supply, and then they do, and then for a moment I get confused if it's the advances talking about Zrenjanin or the Democrats about the Smederjev Palanci, or did they turn around? So there are definitely problems. Problems are equally responsible for each other at the bar. Who is where he left off, the others continued, and we will have opportunities on a variety of grounds. But as we talk about these amendments, we're being followed by people, and if I don't think there's any direct television transmission right now, but there's an Internet, so people are watching and sending messages. They say it's nice that you MPs are fighting for water supply in cities, which brings up the problem of that or this city. They say... if anyone will remember to trouble in the villages, especially when it comes to water supply. Well, then they say from Batocina -- does anyone say that we and our children are supplied from wells and that there is no legal possibility, that there is no body, there is no face in charge of water control in wells, and people drink that water and they don't know. Those in Zrenjanin know when the water can't drink. Those in Uzica knew when the water wasn't allowed to drink. Those in the Smederjevska Palanca, too, and these people in the villages, we are specifically talking about Batocina, because they reported them, but not only Batocina, they do not know whether the water they drink is correct or not, and that is one of your ministry's obligations to take care of it in the future. The problem that caused us all the major problems in general, people also appear and intervene, is anti-urban protection, and in the state of Serbia, it is now unknown. Here's how you don't cut this money, and someone wants to pay it and buy it, and you don't know whose jurisdiction it is, or who can buy it, or who can pay for someone who can use it, etc. So it's not just about these amounts, it's about the problem. The problem is also in the application of such a law as it is and when I see how you from the Government have explained these amendments, it is logical that you, it was known in the beginning that anyone who submitted the amendment that you couldn't change it and that you wouldn't adopt the amendments. This does not mean that the amendments should not have been submitted, but it is unserious to say this amendment, which is why you will not accept the same thing as Balša Bozovica's amendment, and you wrote in Balša Bozovica that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment does not achieve the result defined by the bill. What's that score? You have no result defined by the bill. You said, Mrs. Brnabic, that this is the law you bring in ad hoc because you were told by the IMF that you must provide 4.8 billion in the budget. This isn't any calculation, this isn't any of your God knows what work, this is pure mathematics which, even though you had to do it, had to be done in a much fairer way. I told you on the board about it. I'm afraid I don't have time anymore, but you remember what I said about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2471	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2472	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not speaking by amendment, but I'd like to have a brief replica of the presentation of the head of the former regime's parliamentary group that mentioned Nis and pointed in my direction. I wonder if this man even lives in Nis and it would be fair and correct if he analyzes the work of the mayor of SNS to analyze the period of... . from 2008 to 2012 when their ability was in power. [[Disabled microphone.]] Please give me back my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2473	If you're going to talk about the amendment. (Ljuvica Mrdaković Todorovic, from the place: I was talking about the amendment. This is your third term, so try to be really on the subject. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2474	Just one line at the end. I work in the largest primary health care facility in the Balkans. In the period from 2008 to 2012, when they left the House of Health Nis, the largest primary health care facility with 158 million dinars of debt. That's what we inherited. So much for their domestic business and taking care of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2475	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2476	I'll use that time, those 15 minutes. I'll make sure to use it from two parts, since there are amendments to two members. This is formally on the subject of the amendment by Goran Ciric, but since almost all amendments are the same, I think the SRS comment on these amendments can cover all of this. There are a few things that are good in this bill. The first thing that is good is that, by opening this topic with a story about the draft and the story of the proposal, an appropriate impact has been made on local self-government units to prepare their budgets a little differently for 2017, and that is a good thing that in advance they are told which rules will apply for 2017, that they can be reorientated in time and assess what it will look like with the incomes of local self-government units. As for the proposed solution and the proposed amendments, they all move within the existing system of funding local self-government, and the system must be said to have failed the test of time. Why didn't he take the test of time? You can see for yourself, according to these amendments and these discussions, that the differences between political parties have almost been annulled, everyone is in some way unsatisfactory, and even those who pretend to be satisfied. Why? Because there's one practice with us, if this year's budget is lower, it's a bad basis for next year, and that's why budgets have to get high, get high, start positions from year to year are better. It's a natural consequence and something that's said to replace thesis. At the time of Mladjan Dinkic, there was a story that Serbia's prosperity was in high consumption, and then we spent what we didn't have, and in order for it to be as much consumption, then we had to borrow. Now we have a different variant, now we have a saving variant, and now we're saving, but we're still saving what we don't have. When you ask these people of the government what you have saved, they say, so much and so much. Well, show us that money where it is. He says, "There is no money there, but we are in less debt." So it's something virtual and it's going to move on. For the state of local self-government, besides the guilt of those who were in power in local self-government, perhaps even the greater culprit is all those who were at the republican level in power, and here's why. Practically, since the Law on Local Self-Government was passed and all those following laws concerning local self-government, some areas have remained totally unregulated, either misregulated or poorly regulated. The rule is when units of local self-government are entrusted with certain tasks within the jurisdiction of the state administration to have their own price and to pay for it, but when it comes to the principle of shared jurisdiction between local self-government and the Republic, or central government, it is quite colorful there. Why do I say it's colorful? Because chalk and heating should be taken into account by local self-government and by the Republic's salaries. Then the Republic is generous, so it says - you can also get involved in local education, and a special system develops, and then we actually see how many state leaders do not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide the same level of health care at every square centimetre of the Republic of Serbia. How can you share jurisdiction with local self-government? The same situation is also in education, the state guarantees education, health care and that I do not order other areas, and then the state, i.e. the government, says elegantly – decentralisation. You're decentralisation where you're forbidden. No decentralisation in education, no decentralisation in health care, no decentralisation in travel economy, no infrastructure, no decentralisation. Not to tell you what it's like in that railroad bill, and you've split the tracks. Local self-government can only be photographed with some stripes, and traffic on a territorial rail is still needed. It's a classic prank. Why did that go away? Because they were ours, so ours at the central level are pressing theirs at the local level, these are doing it because of the chairs, and they're doing it. Today, we have a situation that some mayors have changed only if they have a car accident or someone shoots them. They're good in all regimes. Take Vido Petrovic from Loznica, until a few years ago he was the URS, the URS, the URS, the URS, and something changes, now he's something else, and he's the same man. He's interested in his pocket, and he doesn't care who's in charge. Will the central government solve it? Oh, they don't care. They say, "It is the will of the people; the people have chosen it." Then he says -- when he was younger, I was pushing investment, now he's somebody else, now I'm pushing investment, now I'm paved, I want to be a city, we're gonna be a city. I'm just surprised you didn't call some villages cities. Why? I was looking for a Vršac. Why? He's looking for Pirot, and if we want to be in power, the Pyrocans like to be a city, let's give them the city, and we'll be in power. All that can go away, I don't slow it down. I don't argue with what some say the former government, as far as I can tell, is all the former government, they're pushing for some percentages, and they're aware that it's going to be solved by someone else. He's got that sneaky, quiet, everybody's dissatisfied, everyone's absolutely dissatisfied. Are you going to solve the problem with these amendments to the law? You won't. Why? The problem is insecure. We're burdened with debts in local self-government. The borrowing of local self-government was a reflection of central government policy ten years ago. We can't, you can't, you can't do it in debt, so it went so far that today, please, we begged a few years ago and prayed that the tax administration wouldn't return to the local self-government in that section for local incomes, so it wouldn't come back. No, now you've got local tax authorities, and now he's complaining here that there's no listed property, that there's a bad charge for those taxis, etc. Let me remind you what we had to do with this municipal police force. Pray, beg, don't do it, don't do it. Does anyone in this country know what housing companies are doing that supposedly keep buildings going? When was the last time they changed something on a flat roof that was sneezing? You leave, and they say - there is not enough funds for your building, and every month employees in the company receive salaries. Or those of me in Rakovica, they worship carnivals, and they have no authority whatsoever or in these other municipalities that organize singers for their great celebrations – day, New Year, etc., and there is no dog for which to bite them. Look at this selective thing that DRI did, what she found in those local self-governments, what's going on. We don't have a local self-government in a classic sense, so we don't even have a ministry. We have the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government that only with administrative matters observes local self-government – whether the president of the municipality has been well appointed enough, whether it was good to fly the committee from one committee group to another. For the first time, the councilman became the owner of the mandate, then after a year an MP. A conscious and deliberate collapse of the system, and it's missing from the finance minister. Why isn't he here? So, what's the criterion for power? Money. The money you have in your portfolio, the money you have. You do everything with that money. Well, our local self-government has no investment maintenance item. When I say local self-government, I speak in a broad sense of words. First of all, I'm thinking about utility companies and what's good for the general interest. And that's the system holding water. I've been listening now about places that have water, which don't have water, etc. Well, those problems in those places have been around for 30 years. Why? Because there's no investment dinar. It's all been eaten. As we eat in advance in the country, we have eaten 25 billion euros in advance and left a debt to generations, and local self-government has spent some money in advance. Are those rational ones spent? I don't know that, but according to the state authorities that are in control, especially when someone falls out of power, it hasn't been rationally or efficiently used since the beginning. This problem, it is the fundamental problem of our local self-government, does not solve any changes to this law or these amendments that have been filed. That's why it's quite devising this discussion, but it's good that every debate is going on and on, because then they come up with problems. You who have formed power, you have been given the exclusive right and obligation of citizens to solve problems. The government has been given the obligation to solve problems with citizens' will, and the opposition has not received that right and that obligation. We now see how you want to solve this problem. You don't want to solve that problem. You just want to mathematically agree something, but what you're agreeing doesn't solve our problems. Next, we have a fully unthinked concept of the county. Is it clear to anyone in this country what these districts are for? Are they a cohesion bonding factor? We don't have a three-step system of local self-government. We don't and we shouldn't have. We're a small country. A small country, a small nation, is seeking centralization. For a small nation and a small state, decentralisation is a danger, a great danger. We don't have a clear limit to funding local self-government, to make your self-government come true from what is minimal, to what is maximum. We have a paradoxical situation, mayors and presidents of municipalities are racing to, as they say, apply something to compete for some means, so if I have good projects, I'll get the money. Guys, get away from it! I'm applying for water? I've got nothing to apply for, water's a liability, it's got to be provided. What if someone didn't apply, they won't have water in that place, and the state will watch peacefully? Well, that's impossible, people. What kind of apps, what kind of competition between municipalities? What kind of competition between municipalities? The municipality has so many inhabitants and all of our residents in each municipality should have about the same standard. It's an obligation. You're talking about some regional development. What kind of black regional development? You share where you need a hat and a hand. He boasts and says: I have no more employees, I have good finances, and I am still an undeveloped municipality. Well, that's a shame! You're still the best underdeveloped? No, he keeps the status undeveloped to get out of the Republic of some money and to be a good president of the municipality, to be applauded by those five peasants in each of his villages. In 15 villages to exercise power and he sits still again, everything is fine, turkey dots don't apply, we all move on. So you think with that logic we can solve our problems and our situation? Well, that's impossible. We need system regulation, system law. Until then, all this looks like he's holding water until the masters leave, so when the new masters come, they're criticizing the previous ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2477	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2478	Dear Chairman, here's another way of trying to figure out why as an opposition, I believe we all, these different amendments wanted to point out the absurdity of these legal interventions of yours. Why do we have in these amendments, let's say, instead of taking cities and municipalities, for example? 77% of the profit tax, why wouldn't it be 76% or 78%? That's the point of these amendments. Because you don't know what you're taking that much. Because there's no idea from these legal solutions, there's only an IMF warrant. What's the biggest piece of evidence to me? You've been in power for five years, gentlemen. When will you finally realize that you are no longer an opposition, that you can't talk about the former regime as the main topic you're dealing with? I can understand for a while to talk about a former regime that's guilty of everything, who it is, it's not a dispute, but I guess after a while we need to take responsibility to see what you know. If in five years your authorities have made changes to these two members of the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, that means that you have no idea about local self-governments, that you haven't thought of anything else in five years, except for the modification of these two members, and with the amendments of these two members you don't know what you want. So that's the problem with this whole story right here. So you simply haven't solved certain problems in the Republic either, and now you're solving or forcing local self-government to solve them. Well, why didn't you solve the gray zone? Why didn't you charge taxes that weren't paid to the tycoons? Why didn't you fill out the budget in some other way, by additionally taxing foreign banks or foreign companies that make profits illegally from this country? So you had a way of doing that fiscal consolidation in some other way, but you're avoiding these ways. You won't mind the IMF, you won't mind tycoons, you won't mind foreign banks, you won't mind foreign investors. Well, you budget our billion foreign companies to come here and hire our workers. They don't invest anything. They're investing our money in opening a company in our country. What kind of economy is that? So you spend a lot more money from the budget than you're going to save with these five billion. Well, then don't take us to the bar or that five billion. Save it by not giving some "Tenis" those five billion, let's say, and here's five billion. Don't give "Tenis", he's the richest German, he doesn't need it. Why would we fund a rich German from our budget? Why don't you make some Serbian cooperative, give her five billion, see if the Serbian cooperatives can do anything. So that's where we differ from you here, if you don't understand it by now. We don't see any idea of the functioning of local self-government from these legal solutions of yours. You admitted it yourself - forced us to the IMF. We're forced against the wall, we're running out of deadline, we need an emergency procedure to perform fiscal consolidation, ordered by the IMF. We have no idea what we're doing with this, but the IMF ordered it. That's what we've been arguing about here for three days. From all this that Mrs. Minister hasn't responded to any criticism of the Dvora for these three days, it's quite certain there's no argument, there's nothing to say, that our arguments are simply inconclusive. Especially, to put it that way, it's a little funny when you're criticizing someone out there I don't know about Dinkic's law, for example. Well, you took Dinkic to the government. Dinkic is still some kind of adviser to Vukic's co-operation with the United Arab Emirates. Well, then you say rightly so, I agree with you here, that this 2011 law was actually used for pre-election purposes. Yeah, I agree. Well, Dinkic did the whole policy on what he's doing right now -- I'm holding the register, and then you come to me and you beg me for money, and I'm telling you, let's join the U.S.S.A. and run a campaign at the U.S.R., so I'm gonna give you money from the republican budget. What does it take for all of us to do local self-government in Serbia? Let us come to the Wolf, and let him tell us, "Come join the SNS, and you'll get any money?" So, all those Dinkics at the bar that you're criticizing for the purposeless spending of funds and everything that they've ruined, half of them are now your SNS leaders at the bar. How many Dinkics have collectively crossed from the SNS and today are the mayors and presidents of the municipalities on your behalf? You have no right to criticize them. These are your personnel now, as Dinkic is your staff, as you continue Dinkic's economic policy. Tell me some difference between you and Dinkic. I don't see her. I don't see in the economy, I don't see in relation to local self-government, I don't see in frames. After all, I've already told you, Dinkic's chief of staff, he's now the head of the office of Alexander Vukic. You want some more proof. You take their ideas, you take their personnel, you take their flyers locally. So you're Dinkicians, that's SNS, in economic and political terms. You forgot that prison suit that Alexander Vukic dressed Dinkic here in the same building. What happened to that? So, if you want, Madam Minister, full budget and fiscal consolidation, tax extra-profits, don't take local self-government, tycoons, foreign companies, foreign banks. There's something you can't hit on. I don't remember the IMF asking to tax banks that have the highest interest rates in Europe and which amount to billions of euros in extra profits from this country on the back of this poor people. That is what the IMF will never ask for, and the IMF will never be interested in the standard of Serbian citizens. The IMF is only interested in repaying his debts and protecting foreign capital here, and in imposing on us something that is not our interest. Much greater our interest in us investing our money in our domestic production and our domestic banks, than the fiscal consolidation imposed on us by the IMF, rather than a stable dinar, but I don't know what else. The most important thing for us is to start domestic production, which is what we need to do. What the IMF is interested in, it's mostly not our interest. It's not domestic economic interest, it's the IMF's interest. I can never agree with you there, that the interests of the IMF are equal to the interests of the Serbian state and our domestic economic interest. The International Monetary Fund implements other people's interests, works for other interests, does not work for the interests of Serbian citizens. Not an IMF or a foreign bank came here to work people for us, she came to take money and take it abroad and not pay taxes if she can, which you allow them to. So that's the difference and point of this whole story. What is it, Madam Minister, if you can repeat it in one sentence, what is the idea of these legitimate interests of yours? No idea. Said the IMF and you're listening to that warrant. Otherwise, if there were ideas, maybe not you, you're two months, I understand, it's okay, it's not controversial, you can't suddenly solve what SNS hasn't solved for five years. Be careful, for five years, how many SNS are in power she doesn't have a proposal to amend and supplement this law. If it wasn't a 2011 law, we'd be changing it in 2016. Where were we for five years? There was no idea, no creativity, you were doing something else, you don't have professional personnel. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2479	Mr. Obradich, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for including the time of my parliamentary group, thank you for that and for letting me finish. So you haven't convinced us that behind this change in legal solutions is any idea of making local self-government function better. Yes, you will take our money, yes, you will fill the budget, you will fulfill the IMF's order, and that is the meaning of this legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2481	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2482	I will not support the opposition's proposals when it comes to amendments, since the reasons for the amendments express some kind of doubt as to whether these legal solutions will have positive effects on our country's macroeconomic stability. I have no doubt in the government of Serbia, I have no doubt in all the measures that have been applied so far and I believe they have had precise results and this is seen in a reduced deficit, this is seen in GDP growth, and ultimately, it is seen through the support of all relevant international institutions, and more importantly, through the support of citizens of Serbia. I would support all that Mr. Bosko Obradovic says that he sincerely believes what he is saying and that he has a sincere desire for Serbia to be financially consolidated. But I can't believe it when in the only local self-government in which Dvori is in power, Bosko Obradovic and his one board member help him return to power DS. The Democratic Party, which also destroyed Nova Varoš and Serbia from 2008 to 2012, in 2016, helps the party return to power. How can I believe now that he now has a sincere intention and a sincere desire for Serbia to be a financially stable country when he enters coalitions with a party responsible for the financial collapse in which the country came in the previous period? Also, you're talking about SNS all the worst. We're the worst, nothing's wrong with our party, you mentioned both before and Mayor Cacka in a critical sense. Now, what I don't understand is how we don't do it, and you want to do it with us. You're offering to us all the time. Yeah, I'm not talking about your officials landing me in the congregation hall of the Cachanical Assembly, so they convince me that you're a much better coalition partner than the SPS and we'd be much better off being with you than with them. April 27th means three days after the election, Bosko Obradovic, this is "evening news" says – we are ready to co-operate with SNS in Cačka. Now I don't understand how we don't do it, and you want to come with us. What's this about? Or it's just that we turned down that kind of offer of yours, so now suddenly you have some problem with us. Or it's all part of some media show where you want to introduce yourself as a very harsh opposition, like you talked about all the worst about DS, so now you're in a coalition with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2483	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinović You were a colleague in the system, so you gave up, I don't know why. [[Bosko Obradović, from place: Please, replica.]] Right on the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, first of all, for clearing up one big and important thing that's being manipulated here by the SNS, and that's who's in power in Nova Varosha. The leading government in Novi Varoša is a group of citizens – New people for Nova Varoš, local businessmen, non-party people who have earned the huge trust of the citizens of Nova Varoša and we support them. And it's true that the ruling majority of the spell is also DS. What's interesting is that the DS that you were accusing there of not knowing what kind of thieving in Nova Varosha, for five years your government there is not one process that you would show and prove any of their thieving. Now, that's your story. Well, wait if there's a thief or no thief. In five years, you can prove a thief. He can't? Well, then don't talk about thieving anymore. So let's figure out more whether he's a thief or not. It can't be in five years, Mr. Martinovic, Parezovic, with how much, at ten, you want to solve a case of corruption in Serbia. So that's the problem here in this whole story. The fact that the Davers have ever offered themselves to you, it's already the demagogy of the first kind. So, we have broken the previous power in Chačka that you also belonged to and was defeated in these elections. And all the time we're saying we want new people headed by Serbia, so we supported Nova Varosh. New people at the head of the New Varosha. New people at the head of Chačka. New people leading Serbia, not recycling party characters we're looking at for who knows which way. Sinisa Mali, a consultant at the Privatisation Agency, a new face on the political scene. Goran Vesic, Belgrade manager, the genius new SNS frame. Are those new people? Is that the new energy? That these are new personnel solutions? Zorana Mihajlovic, Dinkic's advisor. Are those new genius people? Well, wait please, let's see what's new in SNS, there's nothing new.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2485	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2486	I'll talk to Mr. Arsic about the amendment, but I'll speak politically. Unlike SNS, which is a party, the Davers are sects. The sects are closed, the parties are open. The Serbian Progressive Party, and you too, Mrs. Comic, are on your way to becoming a sect. I will become a cult myself. ) Maybe if you connect two sects, you make one party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2487	Col. Martinovic, please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2488	So the Dvori are sect, SNS is a party, a party open to all capable people. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Please behave. Give Kenny some beer to calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2489	Mr. Martinovic, please choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2490	Or we could get him some starlets. Maybe it calms him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2491	Mr. Martinovic, please continue your exposure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2492	So, the SNS is an open party for all able-bodied people who want to bring Serbia forward together. I understand Mr. Bosko Obradovic. Except for the hatred, apart from the repeated repetition of one of those same words and the pronunciation of as much insult to the expense of Alexander Vukic, he thinks it's the essence of politics. I understand him. No one in Serbia has been given a job, no one has been given a job. They don't care about any local self-government. They don't care about any child in Serbia. In most local self-government, the SNS does. Mr. Bosko Obradovic does not understand at all what problems every local self-government in Serbia faces. He thinks that the essence of politics is to come to the National Assembly, to yell, to threaten, to hit women who are members of RIK, to yell with the balcony of someone – thieves, bastards, I will beat you, I will kill you, etc., then to come to the National Assembly and whatever law that is on the agenda, to speak the same thing – Alexander Vukic is a despot, Alexander Vucic is not sure what, dictator, Alexander Vucicic has ruined Serbia, SNS nothing good, taking pictures in front of the factory that Alexander Vukic opened the next day and then to say – this factory should be closed, there should be no people doing, what foreign companies will do. It's easy for Boška Obradovic. I understand a man completely. For someone who is sectarian, for someone who is not responsible for anything in Serbia, it is a very comfortable and comfortable behavior, but we who are in the SNS, we know that Serbia cannot go that way. It is a huge difference between us who are responsible, us who are also responsible for the citizens of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Leskovec, Kragujevac, Kraljeva, Sremska Mitrovica, Zrenjanina, etc. Come on, besides this Nova Varoshi, give me one, Marko, remind me, is there a local self-government where Bosko Obradović and his sect helped the citizens and local self-government? I don't think so. There's been a lot of words here, not just about Alexander Wolfie, and I have to say it. The biggest possible insults were made at the expense of Ivica Kojac. Ivica Kotic is one of the most professional civil servants in Serbia. At the time Bosko Obradovic sleeps, Ivica Koić is at work. And now Hansel is at work. Ivica Kojic is a man who is available 24 hours on the phone, whom every president of the municipality, but literally every president of the municipality and every mayor, regardless of which party he comes from, can call and ask for help. Try calling Bosko Obradovic at three o'clock in the morning, so he can finish some work and help you. If you succeed in that, it's an honor. I understand Kena, too. He only drinks beer and spends municipal money, nothing else, and he can't do it. But what's important is to point out, so that it doesn't remain as one lie that has not been answered, the sectarians are losing sight of the facts because of their hatred. So in the first eight months of this year we have better tax revenues for 51 billion dinars than last year, we have less expenditure than almost 40 billion dinars. We have 30.7 billion better non-tax revenues. As a result, a surplus of the republican budget was reached in the first eight months of this year, for the first time in Serbia's recent economic history. These are the results the citizens recognized. And the SNS points from day to day, the elections are over, we are all in the eyes of the people measured. The people gave us as many terms as we're worth. The people said on April 24th that they wanted to lead Serbia by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, and Bosko Obradovic could hate it to the will and can come to the Assembly a hundred times and say that Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator. I beg you, both from the Dvora and you from the DS and everything else, and the SRS, the more you attack Alexander Vukic, say as much insult as you can to his account and his brother and his father and children and do all that. The more you do, the more the people of Alexander Wolfie likes it. Do not organize a “yellow duck ” once every three months. Organize it every day. The more you organize "yellow ducks" and these protests of yours that are financed from abroad, Alexander Vukic is growing and bigger in the eyes of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2493	Since I see where this is going right now, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 10-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1st of the amendment, with a correction, National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Veroljub Stevanovic, Tomislav Zigmanov and Dusan Petrovic together submitted to the 1st amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2495	Madam Minister, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you defend, gentlemen of the government, in a way that doesn't defend itself or come on, so I don't defend it. And okay, it's your right and you defend it properly. I'd say like this, I'm responsible, we're responsible, so we're the government that the citizens chose, and that's our approach, that's our view of it, and that's okay. We say it will lead to that and that and we're here for that, and you're talking to us all the time and we're wasting our time and everything is happening here, that 77% is greater than 80, or 74 out of 80, so that's terrible. Madam Minister, in the explanation that you wrote and the Fiscal Council, it says, among other things, that all this when adopted leads to a fiscal level of balance between local and central levels. Basically, what does balance mean? So when someone or something is in balance. So it's not balanced. And by nature, when it's not balanced, you take from what's bigger, and you give it where it's smaller and you balance it. Turns out everything on a local level is great, and it's on the central level, and you're praising it quite differently, the opposite. And now you're explaining to us what balance that is. So there are other names, and then you tell us that establishing it is by some principle, and we'd rather say it's an imposition. What I'm asking you, Madam Minister, here's one case I'll tell you what, I think, goes in favor of what I'm talking about. On that side across the street, it was said that the public debt of Kragujevac is amazing, and here is the Public Debt Administration, which Mr Krasic presented very nicely yesterday, says that the public debt of the town of Kragujevac is a billion dinars. It's something that goes back years in advance, and let me remind you that the city's budget planned for this year is over nine billion dinars. So where's the debt and where's the debt? At the same time, it is the example, Madam Minister, that the state owes to the town of Kragujevac, based on the unpaid income tax of the Land, which is the state firm, two and a half billion dinars and more now. That means two and a half times as long as it is, and that's the bottom line of the whole problem. As is the essence of the problem, and that is said, how all the mayors said it was good and how happy they were all. So, since 99% of the people in the SNS are in those positions, some of them are new and they don't get along, the old ones are unhappy. Everyone's unhappy. You could look at that and see if you were on the Finance Committee. And now, of course, everyone's quiet because they can't behave differently. There are some things in the amendment that I think should be said. First, we said it should be increased by municipalities of 80, as it is now within the law until it is changed, to 89, that cities and the city of Belgrade should not be touched. And one more thing is said here, and there's little to be said, it's income from giving in to the lease of business space. This is the income allocated to the cities and municipalities that are now being taken. What's the point of the story? That the law that was passed in 2011 was the bad law that we are now changing, and you heard what was the consequence and what was happening to this law was passed in the discussion of MEP Tepic. I argue, and we argue that this law was good under these circumstances and under these circumstances and that what you say is a hole in the budget was created because with 40% of that law that tax was raised to cities and municipalities to 80, we just ask -- imagine in those circumstances what would happen if 40% of it were left? No city and no municipality would work, and I guess we all know that income tax should be raised to a higher level, besides what we've been talking about so far, says the following. It's stimulation. A message to those in power in cities and municipalities to try to create such an atmosphere and position for new jobs to be opened in these cities through capital investments and other ways. That's the essence of the whole story. We just want to point out these things most well-intentioned and tell you that all the responsibility is on you and we haven't touched anything else, we haven't touched, we haven't spoken. There was no need for you to show us this much bile and you don't have any hate on this side. In our view, the big problem will be created and there will be many, many problems in the functioning of cities and municipalities. One more request, and according to what the Fiscal Council has told you, that you try to achieve this horizontal balance by means of the Transfer Assets Act or some other way. If it doesn't, believe me, it's gonna be a lot of trouble. I'm quite experienced in this, and I'm not running for that function, nor am I, but this is one warning to you, to the government, to your colleagues across the street to understand the intention. Respecting what you're doing, believing in your good intentions, we ask you to keep in mind everything we suggested, because all we suggested was the most well-meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2496	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2497	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 107. I'm asking you to explain to me how it's possible to declare a ten-minute break and proceed with your work in five? So we measured the time since you said ten minutes, that we could drink some water and go to the bathroom and then you said after five minutes to start working, read the amendment at the time that no one was in the O.R. If not true, as your colleagues say, then let me explain my amendment because it is really wrong to treat opposition MPs in the Assembly in this way. I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2498	I don't know how you measured the time when I know you're not wearing a watch. The whole of Serbia knows you're not wearing a watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2499	I've got it on the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2500	So I don't know what your parameters were.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2501	I've got an hour on the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2502	The other thing is, I'm not gonna give you back your time or let you talk about your amendment because you were there when the session began.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2503	So you say ten minutes, and you start in five. What kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2504	It's been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2505	It wasn't ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2506	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go. Just one question, do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2507	Of course, because I think this is a great shame for the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2508	Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2509	I'm just saying, I hope he doesn't mind my colleague Milojicic, if you were Wyfert, you wouldn't be more popular than you are, I don't know who you are, what you are, a lot of times, and that seems to me from the prime minister in the exposé. I don't want to deal with the team here, we're basically having some big differences. Madam Minister, I understand. You have been at the head of the ministry for two months, but I do not understand Minister Vujovic, who is also an authorised promoter along with you regarding the law. It will be said that some funds need to be put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and you may not have had enough time to see where it might be from, and then you suggested that the income tax be reduced to the expense of local self-government. The budget of the Republic of Serbia will not pay much. You know exactly that's 4.8 billion. It's not much, but for many local self-government it's a lot of resources. So you say the least damaged are the poorest municipalities, and the City of Belgrade the most. I cannot say that this is not true, but the City of Belgrade will be much easier to come up with from these financial problems that will be imposed on it in 2017 on these amendments and amendments to the laws. It'll be further if the IMF is like a world cop, he's just controlling one situation. Some colleagues who used to be former regimes, you who are present say we need them. We in the SRS feel that the IMF does not need to control finance, i.e. financial flows in the state of Serbia. If we're not responsible enough, safe enough, professional enough, then they won't be able to help us either. But they do what they do, and when they notice that there might be a lack of funds for some of our obligations, they say, it must be replaced in the budget, and then you said – where should we take? From local self-government. Sometimes it's good, I think as a man who deals with politics, it's good when he's verticalized the same authority on a republican and local level, and in practice it's proven very often that it's dangerous. Incapacitated, unprofessional and those who are helped by the state level to power their popularity, by their influence with the citizens of Serbia and by their influence they realize some of the interests of Serbian citizens in a completely wrong and in a way that is not good, and the funds go there as well. I know, as we all know, there are very successful mayors and very successful municipal presidents. These are people who have managerial abilities, who have some capacity, people who are willing to change, people who are ready to perfect themselves, that they do a lot of work on it themselves, and who create teams that are good for citizens who choose them. There are those who are incompetent. Very often, the desire for absolute authority leads to this and there are those who are in crime. Whether they personally or associated with local crime, that's what I'm talking about, and then that leads to a certain problem for all citizens in that local self-government. I don't think this is the way to take away their funds, so let's punish them. They have to answer for what is not in accordance with the law, and sometimes the crime is not just what is taken and taken away. It's a crime for professionals and for what is not done that they were obliged to do. There's a state audit institution, there's a Ministry of Finance, there's a Ministry of State Administration and local self-government that needs to control it. What would be good, and if you want this as a suggestion, Madam Minister, to accept, because you claim that the desire for local self-government to develop, to create an environment for a better life of citizens, try to make some teams in your ministry that might help these local self-government in another way, not through a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, but by going to local self-government, looking at these problems and proposing how they can be solved. Now there's a professor here who, I can't argue that it's not right mathematically, said that we can get to, if we cut the base, we can get to a bigger income. Yes, it could, if we had citizens who had potential, strength and opportunities to create new jobs, to hire new people, and whatever would be taken away, if instead of 500 employees anywhere, right in small areas I believe there are local self-governments in Serbia that do not have 500 employees, counting the public sector, to employ 1,500. Well, then it could be 80 percent or 74 percent, if they got 60 percent back, that would be a big income for them. That would be more favourable, because then the workers would work there, earn income for themselves, and that local self-government could develop. But there's no one there to work anymore, there's no one to start the initiative and someone here speaks symbolically, and indeed in Serbia there are villages and schools, there are schools. Unfortunately, in a place where I come from which there are more educators there are schools that have celebrated 175 years of existence a few months ago, there are more teachers hired than students. Parents are being talked about sending a child to that school even though there is no quality program, there is no quality education if he is a teacher, or one teacher and one student. There's no competition, there's no motive for a teacher. Unfortunately, this is Serbia, too. I'm sure what you're trying to do right now won't contribute at all to solving these problems, not to keep what we have now, but that some colleagues have even suggested an increase from 80% to 90%, but to 150% if we increase some things we can't solve because we have to solve it in some other way. Here, to accept everything that is true, that a certain number of factories the prime minister opened and that they started working and that a certain number of citizens got hired, and what about where he didn't go? What's not going where? Maybe it's a little inappropriate for me to say -- well, it's moving, it's cleaning toilets, but we have health centers where hospitals don't move, where bed sheets don't wash, where patients have trouble removing it. It didn't come with this government. It's a problem that's followed for many years. When I hear that you and those before you are talking about decentralisation, I am immediately certain that citizens of local self-government will pay a certain price. We don't need to say, but we know the Law on the limit of the number of employees that means the state itself tells itself and restricts employment, that it's not decentralisation, but that it's the most classical form of centralisation, but it's not because they would have records, so they would know, to help and speed up quality employment, but precisely to conduct. Now someone said it well, I think a man who led successfully or less successfully, doesn't matter, one local self-government, so he says -- almost every municipality we can say that there's an surplus of 50 on one side, on the other, 50 employees. This is not likely in Belgrade municipalities, in developed municipalities, but in municipalities that have a problem of financial nature is that problem. They have surplus employees, but by structure they do not have enough employees who could provide quality services to local self-governments that expect citizens. Who should do the program and project, and how did Krasic say - who on behalf of some local self-government to apply? It's supposed to be professional people, it's supposed to be people with visions, and it's got to be heard by central authorities that they know what's going to happen in a certain calendar year, what could be funded and what they can count on as some kind of support. We heard here that some drugstores worked well. We have cases that some have done bad things. It's all in the domain of local self-government and you'll really have a lot of work to do. I don't know if you were the most invited to defend this law. I don't blame it, but to solve it, but to get into solving some problems that will be late tomorrow, not today, but tomorrow, and perhaps here in front of the National Assembly, or the MPs on this bill, the finance minister speaks. I think you're going to pass this law, but we're not going to solve any problems, and it's not true that the presidents of the municipality and the mayors are satisfied with this, and you, Madam Minister, know that well. That's not true, just some of them even said it wasn't a good way to do it. They do not dispute the need to consolidate the budget, but this is not the way to take money from local self-government. I'm not saying that someone is kidnapping, but you're simply trying to solve some things by law that maybe shouldn't be solved that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2510	Thank you. The word is Ivan Manojlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2511	Dear Madam Minister, members of the Government, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had the opportunity to and while the debate was being held in principle to hear the various difficulties of the MPs to understand the difference in percentages. More attempts were made by the MPs to give clarification and I see that it remains unclear to people. First of all, it's amazing that there's a species here, I can say, a phenomenon. I don't just know what to call it, whether it's a post-election phenomenon or maybe a percentage phenomenon, because on April 24th, especially those parties who struggled to cross the censorship by 0.1. 02, 05% now that you mention something shrinking by 2, 3, 4 percent, I don't think they've slept in days. It is unfortunate that even after the clarification and a very good classic example of colleagues to explain that there are differences and that it is not always 80% more than 77, if you ask a question of what. I guess you all should have seen that in elementary school when we learned that 50% of the apple is much more than 100% of the apple slice. Now that we have the Fiscal Council projection and forecast that there will be an increase in the budget from which it will be allocated, that 77% will be exactly the same as 80% now. I really think that the MPs are more tired than listening to that same story, the clarifications, explaining to people who sit here what the percentage is, what the numbers are and if we really need to deal with it, then we will really go slowly into the adoption of other laws, we have a lot of work to do. We are witnesses, and I am sorry that even the applicants of the amendment are not even present in the O.R. I don't want to mention them by names because they're not there, but they said they were closely monitoring the exhibits, and we're all witnesses that they only showed up the moment they were supposed to explain the amendment and they're not in the O.R. again. The question arises – how they closely followed it, so we listened to some strong conclusions, conclusion number one, conclusion number two. It is not valid, none based in practice. What I can say is that since 2012, fortunately most of the mayors of the SNS have proved to be good hosts in their home, that they are safe and responsible for their functions. In Kruševec it was this railway that you mentioned over ten years ago that did not work until 2012. There were a lot of problems in Kruševec, that I don't order because there's not that much time and I don't want to bother, but what this law can do well is that if we look back at that old Chinese saying that it says, "Give the man a fish you'll feed him in one day, teach him how to fish, you'll feed him for life." It is likely that this law will also lead to the mayors of all cities accessing them thoroughly, responsibly, and safely in carrying out their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2512	The word is Stanislav Janošević. Zoran Krasic throws. What do you say? We'll move on to the Serbians. Just press the button and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2513	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Honored Ministers, i.e. Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, my name is Stanislava Janosevic and I come from a beautiful city in the heart of Banat, from Zrenjanin. I introduce myself a little more out of respect for the House of the Republic Assembly because for the first time I have spoken. I'm reporting under this amendment or based on a dozen identical amendments, and I think they should be rejected. For three days we have been persistently listening to the unargumented speeches of the opposition, and I can say that I am extremely sorry for that, because I honestly expected more constructive suggestions given how much they are prepared. I would ask all those who are pushing for good moves, many of them unfortunately are not in this room right now, which is devastating, when they come to this room to prepare themselves well and not deceive anyone, as is the constant case. Why am I saying that? It is true that in the city of Zrenjanin the water is not in its best condition, but our city has received a comprehensive satisfaction with its water-cleaning equipment and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has supported our project thanks to its tenacity and good moves, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Zrenjanin will, if you believe, receive healthy drinking water after 40 years. The town of Zrenjanin, led by SNS, will make it possible for my fellow citizens, which I am extremely proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2514	This has to do with it. (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: Yes, there is. It all has to do with me. Everything has to do with it. I agree with you. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: President, you skipped me. You, but you're not in the amendments. Please draw the card, Goran, and let's do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2515	Thank you. I have no real intention of explaining ourselves and believing that it is not good to do this, that the wholeness of this law is to withdraw as soon as possible and to come out with a new proposal, but obviously this is a proposal from the Prime Minister and things have to be fulfilled, in the end the Prime Minister called officials of the city of Belgrade, some idiots there. I think it's my turn to withdraw this amendment, he knows better than I do that cities and municipalities don't need, obviously, funds, because he knows who runs the local self-government, and I'm pulling the amendment this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2516	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Maja Vidinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? What do you say? Maja Vidinović, Vesna Marjanović and Prof. Dr Dragoljub Micunović. I mean, there's a little more time for your group, so I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. No, I don't. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2517	Thank you. The amendment changes attitude 3 by proposing that instead of deciding that the city of Belgrade is 70% of the income tax, that cities belong to 77% and the city of Belgrade 85% of the income tax. Everyone is willing to discredit both the amendments and the MPs, and that is all he talks about, and I am willing to warn you of three important things. Never talk about giving money to the city of Belgrade. People in Belgrade and in all other cities and municipalities earn money in the territory where they live. That language is a miracle, and probably sitting in this room, in dysresia, I personally regret not being Minister Vujovic, I think his task was and I find it rather beautiful on your part and brave move to do a job instead that is not yours, but that is how it is, so the language is a miracle, and if you listened carefully, then you could see how amazing the language is. The central government's tendency to talk about giving some money is to cause the misery of every reform of society and system in Serbia, because that money does not give. The other obstacle to reform is that there's talk here about or parties about each other, childish, not mature, not productive, but it makes many of us happy with such communication, or talk about mayors. This law is neither about parties nor about mayors. This is a law on people living in Serbia, and here you and I agree, I have no doubt, but nobody but the two of us has heard it. It's another major obstacle, because our laws don't put our laws in the centre of citizens anywhere. I said in this room that the state, that people and mocked me, except Minister Selakovic, understood that the state was made up of people, and nothing more and nothing less, and that then it was the job of whoever gets the responsibility in public affairs to take care of people. That's what this law is about. The third major obstacle is that, in addition to that language, we give someone money, except that we don't put a citizen at the heart of every law and in the language we communicate in this room, the third major obstacle is that in one completely inappropriate way we try to solve the problem and even development and enough money for all the people who live in the municipalities, and that no one is conducting the dialogue that we want Serbia, regionally, in the municipalities, in the cities. These are three major obstacles, and those three are obstacles, less, more, in your jurisdiction. What does it mean, the percentage I'm asking by amendment to be bigger for Belgrade? I'm talking about people who may be following, maybe they're not following, it's their right, it's my duty to explain what's going to happen because of what's changing the law, so the profit tax is on average in some municipality on average for an average profit of 40,000, or gross earnings, I'm saying quite roughly 65,000 somewhere around 6,500. These are the people who earn that, please don't throw about the amendment, if you want to respect the president of the assembly, who is trying to make order with difficulties. If you have anything to say to me, please ask for a replica, you'll get a replica. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2518	You can do as far as I'm concerned. There's no replica. I'm not responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2519	Thank you. There's no political culture in many places, not with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2520	Just talk about the amendment, please, it's too late, so we don't react. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2521	Yeah, I'll keep going. It's not a problem. So the profit tax, in that amount of 6,500 you divide into or 50-50, as it was, or 80-20, or whatever. It's the money that people have earned in that municipality where they live, in Belgrade, and in New Sad, and in Black grass, and in Nis, and in the White Palanca, Subotica, wherever you want. That's not the money anyone gives anyone. And that language is very important to get out of use, because people will hear it, hear you and all of us who change the way we talk about the money that you're paying from, and I'm paying, they're earning that money, to take care of good governance, to have all the needs satisfied. Why is it important that we talk then that Belgrade should not be taken more than it is taken? Because I know how convenient it is to spread, how can I tell you, through Serbia this Belgrade, it takes everything, and nobody cares about us poor people in Central Serbia in Vojvodina. It's not good, it's not healthy to have animosity to your capital. This is what you feed him, not on purpose. I mean, I'm not talking about anything ugly, but I'm just saying that it will produce negative consequences without need. When Belgrade progresses, you can also count on regional development, but you really cannot count on regional development if cities do not advance, if there is no dialogue on what regional development means for Serbia. Will it or won't there be good governance? You said yourself, the previous law you're changing here, where we exchanged 50-50 to 80-20, had good intentions. It's an ethics of intent, it's no use, only evil. That's what I wanted, okay. It doesn't matter what you wanted, it matters what you did, it's the ethics of responsibility. So it was then observed in the analysis that those who ran municipalities were the money that was to be used to raise the quality of every citizen living was misused. Don't let that happen with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2522	Wasted DS time on all grounds. Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2523	Thank you. For me, this was a constructive exposure. Thank you for that. Just to clarify, here's the Semantics, this is the rate of income, I'm not supposed to talk that way about the property tax, which is my own income, but I understand the intention and I want to tell you that I've adopted it and I'll keep an eye on the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2524	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2525	The President-in-Office, dear colleagues and fellow Members, I am against adopting this amendment for the following reasons. By the way, I appreciate my colleague first of all for her seriousness in her work so far, but I think the amendment she suggested is unserious. He is unserious because members of the very political options in the previous period in their case as they manage the city's municipalities of Belgrade have shown that some not too much money from the budget, but have managed to make up certain jobs to spend their budget. Here, let us take an example of the president of Vracar municipality, Branimir Kuzmanovic, who, in his term from 2012 to 2016, employed 54 people as assistants. So 54 people were hired as assistants to the city council president. They were on those duties or functions for a day, two or a few days, and then he found them new functions in his municipality, i.e. New jobs. In this way, he forged the Employment Law, but the man did well to manage to spend the extra money he had in the budget of his township. Now, I've put it only as an example, and that's why I think, Mrs. Comic, I highly appreciate you as a serious person, that this amendment as a proposal is unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2526	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You're not Kuzmanovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: On behalf of the DS parliamentary group. ) He spoke to Gordani Komic, I can give Gordani Komic because he discussed the amendment and why he would not accept the amendment. (Gordana Comić, from the place: he called me. You've both called me, I can't give you both a replica. You or Balša Bozovic, agree, you can't both get a word on the same basis. [[Gordana Comić, from the place: Looking for a replica, if you can.]] The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2527	Thank you. I understand the emotional problems that my colleague Djokic has for being saddened because he does not like my amendment, but I do not understand the need to slander and mud Branimir Kuzmanovic who is not present in the hall. If the argument is that you don't like my amendment, it's your right. I will defend your right not to like any of my amendments, but I will also defend the right to apply the Rules of Procedure so that you do not abuse what you belong to most and slander, instead of argument, people who are not present in the O.R., at least not in the same sentence as my name. Except it's not nice, it says pretty much everything about you. It is also a kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure and an obvious lack of political culture. The relationship between my amendment and your stance on Branimir Kuzmanovic does not exist, but it is your choice, not mine. I'll watch you write amendments that you might like, though I don't expect. We'll see each other in at least two months when the budget is adopted, and you will regrettably accept today's discussion and amendment, and I will be happy to accept if you have a new political culture to talk to the arguments and to have your messages prepared in advance about whom you slander at the assembly sessions leave at the door of this hall. All the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2528	I have to react. You said it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't agree with you that I can hurt the Rules of Procedure that way, but then I wonder if your MP group is spontaneously insulting people who aren't in the O.R.? (Gordana Comić, from the place: We do not insult at all. You say the SNS parliamentary group prepares the insult. Then it turns out that your parliamentary group is spontaneously insulting, which makes it harder for me to apply the Rules of Procedure if someone spontaneously politically insults people who weren't in the O.R. today, and I can start you from the judge and the prosecutor who wasn't in the O.R. today, and he's got really ugly qualifications both politically and professionally. (Gordana Comić, from place: None. Well, it's not safe out of the O.R. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Here, give us an example. So I can walk into a trap and say the same thing. I'm not the type of politician and man to repeat other people's insults. Please don't throw away what we're doing and what we're not doing. We're taking part in the session. Parliamentarians Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? Yeah. The word has a People's MP, Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2529	Thank you. I've submitted an amendment that was supposed to be some kind of compromise, let's just say, that solution. Among other things, he predicted that Belgrade would get more, and we also wanted to show you that we could have different variations and that we still can't prove for one that it is a fundamental, systemic solution to finance local self-government. That's what we discussed yesterday in the debate and on committees, precisely that this is not a system solution for local self-government and we still don't understand why the Minister of Local Self-Government defends the law persistently, because he deals with consolidation, i.e. The budget should therefore be defended by the finance minister. As we can see, the Ministry of Finance's representative is not here, and today, on the board, has explained the law in such a way that local self-government must learn to save. Now, they will certainly not spare on firing a party surplus in the public sector of local self-government. They'll probably start saving on some investments, saving probably on social protection, saving probably on culture and all kinds of other things. He won't pay likely bills for schools, etc. So, that kind of solution means that obviously we weren't dealing with systemic matters, but it was just how we're going to patch up some of the holes in the budget. Secondly, here we have heard some demeaning MPs by not knowing the mathematics, etc., explaining to us that, mathematically speaking, that when you raise some of the leftovers you assumed would be raised, no matter what the percentage is, you will get absolutely the same or greater value. It's mathematically true and assuming it's really going to increase, but it's just your guess, as well as the Fiscal Council, which doesn't have to be true. What's very important is, if the actual incomes based on the income tax are increased, that means either the salaries have been increased or the employment has increased. If it's all true, or at least one of those two, and local self-governments can't benefit from that in the worst case, they could possibly be on the same page as they were before the amendments to this law, then we need to ask ourselves why not local self-government, if we already have some benefit from it, why wouldn't they benefit? Why would they say, "No, you have had enough of what you once had, there is no need for you to have more?" If a community does more, if more people are hired, if they pay in that local self-government, why wouldn't it benefit? Secondly, we have to keep coming back, I say since it's a consolidation of public finances, there are a lot of solutions here that can solve this problem of these 4.8 billion dinars. So, just look at the loss of a state-owned company like RTB Bor, which is more than double that amount in just one year. Let's not talk any other way. So there are ways that are obviously not being questioned in this. The Minister, of course, is not responsible for that. First, he's been a minister recently, the second one's not about public finances. I don't really expect you to give me an answer even though you told me yesterday that subsidies are necessary, I don't think there's any need for me to go into that discussion at all, because it's not your portfolio and you don't need to defend it, and your portfolio is local self-government and let's stick to it, although I appreciate your effort and this effort that you're sitting here and you've been putting all this time. But I think, let me say, they somehow set you up to come here and that Minister Vujovic is simply hiding and he won't come out and talk to us about it. The other thing I'd like to point out is it's very important that we do things systemically and try in the future if we want to deal with local self-government, let's get some sort of system solution. This is not a system solution, it applies exclusively to covering some of the gaps in the budget, and then that's why this discussion is kind of becoming pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2530	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2531	I am asking you not to insult my fellow ministers at this very moment. The finance minister isn't hiding, at least he's hiding from defending one member, one position of one law. So, Serbian government ministers have serious tasks, they are serious about these tasks. They take their job absolutely seriously, I assure you, ultimately and the results, financially and economically, and everyone else talks about it enough, and the Serbian government is acting as one team. I am the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have spoken to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and we have come together to this solution, so I am invited and competent to defend this, I pray once again that ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not offended, certainly not ministers who are not in the room at this time. You can insult me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2532	Milanka Jevtović Vuković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2533	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, of course, that this amendment should not be accepted, but what in almost the basic characteristics of all amendments submitted is politics, manipulation, ignorance and pure demagogy. I came forward for the reason that social protection has been mentioned here several times and that the rights to local self-government to provide social protection are denied, and we know that these categories of population are the most vulnerable. It has also been mentioned that local self-government will be deprived of providing social protection services. I have to say it's either the result of ignorance or the consequence of a populist attitude of the former regime. I must say that all the rights of the poorest people in the Republic of Serbia are financed not from the local budget, but from the Republic budget. It's the right to financial welfare. The right to add to other people's care and assistance, the right to an increased allowance for other people's care and assistance, the right to foster care, the right to housing, the right to housing in a social protection institution and other family-law protection towards citizens who are in the Social Labour Centre as guardianship bodies. I must also point out that this government has for the first time provided its budget with dedicated transfers to local self-governments for the development of social protection services, including those services of geronto housewives that we have heard more than once today from representatives of opposition MPs. The municipality I come from, the Municipality of Priboj just for the development of social security services from the Republic, not the local budget, received three million 501 thousand dinars. Therefore, I would ask the MPs of the former regime not to manipulate, that what they do not know, and that they are not, at the end of the day, deluding not only us, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia above all. Thank you. Can I have a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2534	I can only give you the amendment to continue the discussion. You have as much time as you want. (Nenad Christmas, from the place: I don't want to pick up the amendment, I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. What a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't do anything. Do you want to follow the amendment? (No) (Nenad Christmas, from the place: By hurting the Rules of Procedure. What? What a member, feel free to say so. (Nenad Christmas, from town: Article 106.) Okay, so talk, I don't know how to help you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the 1st amendment, with a correction, she filed a letter from Ljubka Dimitrovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Please, you have to sign up. I don't know how to explain it. (Vladimir Đurić, from the place: Please, I signed up. You didn't sign up. Do you think I intend to cheat until one night? (Vladimir Djuric, from the place: Please, the moment you said if anyone wanted a word, I pressed the key and answered. Unbelievable, well, here you go. Would you like to make an amendment to Jovan Jovanovic or the lovely Mihajlovska? (Vladimir Đurić, from the place: Lovely Mihajlovska. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2535	Thank you. It's very short, because it's really late and because we're already entering the cycles of repetition. We have submitted the amendment, by which we have proposed 80% and 70% distribution, as another of the mathematicss that can prove nothing for themselves, as well as the proposed mathematics in the original bill amending the law. It's simple, with a desire to talk, so no one feels offended. There is no reason for the minister to feel offended that he is being said to be hiding, as there is no reason for MPs to feel offended by whose debate it is said to be a farce. So I'm really suggesting we lower our passions. We perform well-intentioned, and I'll just repeat the questions of yesterday, if the fiscal deficit had one trend when the locals were getting more, and then, excuse me. In terms of the fiscal deficit, give an argument that 1.1% is a fiscal deficit, that this redistribution of the income tax contributed to it. So in 2011, the trend went counter-clockwise. Likewise, the decline in capital investment, the increase in profits at the bar was not reversed in 2011 when the trend was reversed. We simply asked these questions even though the fiscal deficit was not disrupted by the distribution of income tax, so why is it now incurring profits at the bar. Just so much, those are the questions that have remained unarranged since yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2536	Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2537	The amendment I have submitted suggests that instead of the planned reduction in local self-government income based on the income tax, it goes in the opposite direction and that it is radically increasing ten percent in all three categories that exist. I think if we're honest about going to decentralisation then any change, any revenue that exists right now, can't go down, can only go up. I'll try to further explain the logic that is at the root of this. If I have understood the explanation in writing that has come along with the draft amendments to the amendments to this law, two have declared the objectives of these amendments. The first is to improve the bad law of 2011 and the second is to contribute to fiscal consolidation. Now, as far as this 2011 law is concerned, judging by what I've heard here in the last three days, where practically the current, former, former, and most recent government is competing in evacuating memories of financial marriettes from different parts of our beautiful country, I am truly convinced even more, and I was before that law should be changed. What worries me is that it did not go into a change of the whole law and finding a more comprehensive solution, which would specifically focus on preventing these possibilities of these local malversions, but is literally only one member, and the most sensitive one in terms of finance, by reducing money. I'm afraid this will only worsen the situation when it comes to local marifettelus, because what I see will happen if this income decreases, is that irresponsible local authorities will go to the locals and say -- oh, oh, those from Belgrade have cut our money, we don't have for social giving, we don't have anything to do right now, we have to replace it with, how, parafiscal imposings on family companies, small and medium-sized enterprises that are both primary and business entities and business operators in most of these local self-governments. Then I'm afraid that these same family companies under the burden of new duties, will either run into the gray zone, or go to jail, which carries with it a reduction in employment, loss of jobs, which then leads to a reduction in income, which centrally goes to the Republic, so that the Republic can then be transferred back to the local. So that's the fear I have. The local government, if it is irresponsible, will be irresponsible with any amount you give it. So, I think that if you're going to just change this member of the law, and I don't doubt that it's going to be voted tomorrow, I'd like to do very well, precisely because of what we've heard about these great marifels in the last three days, to suggest that, in parallel with that, if there aren't already some systemic changes, even if it goes by the executive and central authorities, suggestions to those local authorities, that they have to do the work of local administrations transparently, to finally start what they are legally obliged to publish, and not to publish, and these are the informants about working with budgets, budgets, budget executions, and, on top of that, they are proactively published on a weekly basis, on a monthly basis, every dinar from the budget to which he went, by name and by name, if the company's concerned, or by name, if the firm's in question, and the contract is signed. So this is an extremely well-intentioned suggestion. I'm afraid of this chain car, and right now, if it doesn't go into a more comprehensive legislative change, the irresponsible local authorities will continue to be irresponsible and will still use this reduction as an excuse to their citizens why they deny them something. Of course, if it comes to this scenario, and I'm convinced that it's the only possible thing to do, and if there's a parafiscal charge, and therefore there's pressure on family firms, small and medium-sized enterprises, their escape to the gray zone and closure, I don't see how this other declared goal can ever be fulfilled, i.e. the contribution of fiscal consolidation. I think in that case we're going into further macroeconomic instability. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2538	Thank you. Members of Bosko Obradović, Zoran Zivkovic, together Radoslav Milojic and Dejan Nikolic, together with Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 2nd amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2539	Thank you. First, the evaluation of the Legislative Committee that this does not comply with the Constitution is completely pointless. Anyone who has been in this Assembly for a long time, and there have been many, knows that such amendments have been perfectly normal, and it is activated at a time when Amendment No 1. There's nothing to be published in "The Official Messenger". Then it's pointless that there's a member of the 2nd to define when it's due to be published. It's as clear as day. There's no need to do that. What's the essence of this law, I've already said in today's debate, I'm not going to repeat, stealing money, whether you like it or not, don't kidnap it if you don't like it. I said it wasn't your fault, Minister. I said it was a bad negotiation with the IMF. This further creates conditions for reducing decentralisation, which is necessary, regardless of other attitudes, and also remains the principle of occupancy, i.e. the principle of good and bad students, which someone rewards by the mercy of the rulers by some special means given to them for purposes that are completely pointless. In 2015, Jagodina received 60 million dinars in such a way. Leskovac received 240 million in this way from July 2015 to May 2016. Saturday July this year 105 million, Zajecar in May this year 100 million, that's 505 million in total. That's 12 or 13% of this savings you're talking about. Of course, these are only the biggest transfers, there are a lot of smaller ones, and that must be going over a billion and a half dinars, which is practically the entire amount of savings, as you call it, from municipalities and cities without Belgrade. That's inadmissible. Pull the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2540	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2541	It is clear that this law will make all local self-governments and municipalities and cities very vulnerable and simple, not work properly, but it is the worst of all that you have not taken care of devasted areas, and it is 40 in Serbia. How are these areas going to work when they couldn't function without a reduction so far? For the sake of truth, 23.7 billion since 2000 investments have entered our country today, only 0.49% of them have used municipalities that are being led as devastated areas. Of the 40 local self-governments that have the status, only nine local self-governments have received or used the right to these investments. How will these local self-governments cope with this reduction, because it is clear that without transfers and help the Republic cannot function? The essence of this law is centralisation and that one man has all the money, as is available to parliament, as is the case with the judiciary. I'm not talking here to criticize the SNS, I'm saying it's not a foundation and it's not a path and direction if we want to become a modern, developed European country to which we should go. Dear friends, here it is said in reason – correction of the percentage of redistribution of income tax is the measure of fiscal consolidation in order to reduce the total fiscal deficit. What kind of deficit are we talking about here, when you SNS say our budget's in surplus, that we're doing very well, that citizens aren't aware of how well we're doing? These two things are simply not compatible, so to explain what is true – do we have a deficit that we need to cover by taking away the citizens' funds, or do we have a surplus in the budget, as you say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2542	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2543	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the fourth time out of the booze, I've called three times and I haven't received a word. My friend left Vienna, and if I had an apartment in Vienna, I'd probably get a word earlier. There goes my winemaker friend, there's this beer man, and he's got something against it, so I've been listening to them patiently... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2544	I just want to put on my headphones, I can't really hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2545	No, the subject was what you were talking about. I listened patiently to them, but they got lost one by one. One hastily hurried to the night harvest of grapes, perhaps looking for Pavicevic, the other has to visit all of his apartments, all of his properties, and believe me, it is not easy. Public revenue that reduces local self-government is the income that has been paid. So it's state revenue and it needs to be clear to everyone. Someone who has reduced the deficit, someone who has reduced inflation almost to zero, someone who has led the growth rate to a bearable one, and this laughing beer should know that in four years, the government of the former euro regime has jumped 50%. I said 'euro' because they are mostly 'euro-loving', all these mayors or captors were 'euro-loving' and I don't understand why they are crying now because of revenue that will be reduced to new authorities, and most of these are SNS people. It is expected that the party's leader expects it to have a cheaper public sector. It's to expect him to ask his local self-government to save. Saved money is twice the money. If you don't spend hundreds of beers, if you don't spend it, and I've already shown you, while I drink water from asbestos tubes, my former president of the municipality, with an apartment in Vienna, which is a moving story of corruption, has spent one lunch, or three thousand lunches at a time, 35,000 euros. That's why I suppose, and I can say, the leader of the most successful and the biggest parties wants to reduce consumption in local self-government. If you were in power in local self-government, I'd understand this noise of yours, but since most of it is about the authorities that are identical in the Republic, the province, at municipal levels and in cities, I believe that money is saved, it's good savings. I guess, and that's what we'll see in the budget, and it'll be saved in the state as well. We've heard a lot of things here. We've heard here people who haven't earned in their life from a white bank in the real sector, that someone's taking money from their pocket. Money is a means to exchange goods. So, someone who hasn't produced anything in his life, someone who hasn't switched the rubber on the tap, someone who hasn't typed in, while borrowing us, even if we have a sweaty shirt to hang on to, but today he's talking about how the state is robbing local self-government. I'd understand if any of them had created anything in their life. Citizens aren't geese to scratch, they don't have enough feathers, how many previous authorities could rob. Not just their feathers, you've swallowed their skin. And when you talk about saving and corruption, it's very touching. When someone who has a 250-square-metre penthaus, when someone who created the Energozelenum, an international fraud that will cost us 120m euros, is such a wasteful request, when someone talks about savings, I have to say that its 90% amendment to local self-government makes sense. It makes sense to give 900 percent, because it's two billion. It was mainly done by going to a personal ad by a party representative of the former regime. I must tell you that the amendment cannot be withdrawn orally, but in writing, written language. It's only so long that whoever basically robbed the local self-government knows how to handle and withdraw the amendments. I'd vote for his amendment if he were only referring to India. However, the Indjia so poor, blasphemous, will have to save. So is Smederevska Palanka. You can't give for the 35,000-euro swimming pool project you took from those, as you said, pâtés, etc., and you bought a burger for 870 dinars, 200 grams, twice as expensive as in "Madera". So, you've been taking care so much that you're basically robbing citizens of the Republic, local self-government and the province. I wish your party president, until yesterday, I don't know who you have today, I don't know who's gonna be there tomorrow, that he'll tell us why he was against some fresco. And I suggest we put his fresco in Hetherland, that's his commission. If you've had your yellow beer grains worked, I forgive you, but I think it's time for you to go home and feed that yellow duck. By the time you get up in the morning, if you don't feed her tonight, God damn it, she's gonna rot. And just so you know, don't trust a yellow duck. The yellow duck isn't gonna kick our asses, it's gonna kick your ass. They are not dissatisfied with the government's work, but rather with the work of the opposition of the former regime's former government, which has basically torn and combed everything that has arrived. We want us to have a cheap public sector, that citizens single out proportionately their economic strength, that it can't be any more -- if you can't make as much money as we can, we'll put you in charge. I ask – how many years does it take for Inji to pay back a debt of two billion and what? I ask you -- where's the 2009 university hall and it's not finished yet, and the "Monter" process that was your party's firm is under way with a request of 440 million? Then I ask you, do you have the right to have your authorised representative talk about corruption and to use words that are certainly not suitable? I ask you to exchange arguments as political inexperiences. Please also agree to anything, to think about what you're up against and what you're up against, not who you're up against, and to try to get us out of this situation. I think we'll be incomplicated very quickly. It's my call to unity. You don't have to think what we're thinking. Here we need to conflict attitudes, make a result based on it and establish political truth by voting and, no matter what you've done wrong, we're still trying to give you a hand. It's in your interest not to plant your foot, but to accept that hand. If you don't believe me, you'll be gone very soon from these benches, which won't be a great loss. It will only be a gain for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2546	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2547	MPs of the congregation's majority should never disdain amendments where the removal of all members of a certain law is proposed. Those who once harshly criticized us, the Serbian radicals who thus expressed our view of a certain law, are using this very much today. They used to view it as obstruction, today they see it as a legitimate way of working in parliament, which, of course, is true. And now, in the congregation majority, there are some MPs who were also in the SRS at the time and also fought with our hearts and fought for the fact that these amendments were, in fact, the relation of the parliamentary group to a certain law. I have to remind myself of 10 or 11 years ago when the truly devastating Law on Public Agencys was passed, when we proposed that all members of that law be deleted in order to show to the then government and the then assembly majority and citizens of Serbia that agencies are something that would cost a lot of the state and none of which would benefit other than those people who, through their party functions, are hiring for much more wages than they are paying in state authorities and you have all promised in the campaign, and those who have passed that law and those who are now in power. You promised in the campaign that when you came to the authority of that agency, you would end it and no one has ever done it before. This is a depression, so I can explain what it really means when all the members of one law are wiped out. It's not good that you in the government, in this explanation, are somehow not ready to accept that fact that someone doesn't want to, or that they think you don't need this law in our legal system. But here I find an interesting explanation of one of the amendments that says the amendment has been filed, given the fact that it is the final part of the proposed law. The law has no tail, can't be the final part of the law, can be the last member, can be transitional and final provisions etc., but of course, it's a lack of experience and knowledge and should really be Members who submit amendments to take care of it. And this is proof that we end up Mr. Arsic for three seconds, and this is proof that we from the SRS are completely different from those who are in power and from this part of the so-called. The opposition and it was unclear why Mr. Martinovic said earlier, put us all in the same basket as Vukic progressed as he was criticised by radicals, Dvori, Democrats, etc., and then I realized why Vukic was so popular. Well, because Martinovic criticized him so much three years ago and said all the bad things about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2548	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can I let them search for all their anger so I can say what I have in two minutes? So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the citizens of Serbia who followed both the principle debate and the debate in particular could see that the only thing that connects the opposition, or the parliamentary groups and the independent MPs, was hatred for the SNS and for Alexander Vukic. This is what connects both the SRS and the DS and Dver and the DSS and all those who spoke against this bill. I have not heard, and neither have my colleagues from the SNS Parliamentary Group, no proposal on how to fix the situation in the area of local self-government, and how many arguments from individual parliamentary groups were inconclusive, says what the distinguished minstark was talking about, and that is that MPs from the same parliamentary group proposed different percentages for funding local self-government, and then it is not known whether municipalities should be given 85, 86 or 87%. What's he saying? That's just saying, let's file a number of amendments to say we did something in the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but it's not a serious policy. And all that unites the people who spoke against this bill is that SNS is not good and Alexander Vukic is not good and it is a legitimate political stance, but they only have one other problem. Which the people don't mean like them. What people think the SNS is doing well for Serbian citizens and that SNS is trying to solve problems that no one has taken seriously so far. (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica, mentioning DS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2550	I don't see anything wrong with what he said to DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2551	I think it's bad when someone says that from here on out of these benches there's been a hate against anyone and that you could see for yourself all of you and the government representatives and the respected minister, there was no word of hate from here, and there was no bad intentions, and all the time we were accused of thinking differently about some subjects. We really believe that it is illogical and that all the time the centralization of money, budget money from 2012 to 2015, for which we have exact data, therefore, from 18.8% in 2012 to 11.4% or 11.6% in 2015, is something that points to not only fiscal centralisation but also political centralisation, because in this way a good part of the people within Serbia are demoted, people who need to run their local self-government and take care of themselves. Such acceptance of that argument and criticism on any proposal is something that we heard just from the bench across from us, that everyone who doesn't think like you are either malicious or don't understand, either they're stupid or they don't know the math or they're enemies of this country. This debate came to this level that either foreign mercenaries or enemies of people who do not love the country. I don't admit to anyone loving this country any more than I do, but I don't think you're the enemies of this country. We can differ on these subjects, and I'm really not going to let anyone accuse anyone from DS, from these benches, of doing this on purpose and of being someone who's a mercenary, because he doesn't agree with any of the proposed topics. We tried to make our contribution and propose the best solutions for what should also contribute to the government's work as well as the work of local self-government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2552	Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2553	Thank you. The SRS also presented very concrete proposals, objections, arguments, arguments, quality of the law in principle and in the debate. We took this proposal very seriously, regardless of what only two members are concerned, because it is actually the essence of the Law on the financing of local self-government and none of us at any time has shown any impatience or anxiety, do not give God hatred, simply, it is unacceptable that someone here is to give the final word, to say that someone who criticises the law, that he actually hates power or hates the Prime Minister. It's just amazing. So there's no personal relationship in what we say is that this law is not good. After all, the minister has been on the board since the first moment we talked about this law, also voiced her view that this is not a good solution, that this is just a solution for a brief moment and agreed that a serious comprehensive law should be done. I understood you so much. Indeed, it was inappropriate, perhaps, to intervene according to the Rules of Procedure, and it was offensive for anyone to say that MPs, I am now talking first of all about the MPs of the SRS, that MPs who oppose any government proposal and who criticise the government's proposal, that they themselves hate whoever suggested it. I ask you not to use such qualifications. We want to continue to be and we will certainly be the most serious critics in this House. But I repeat, nothing personal, all justified and all in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2554	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Goran Ciric, from the post: No one mentioned SNS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2556	Go on, Mr. Martinovic. Radoslav Milojic, throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2557	Well, Mr. Kenna's throwing, so I'm waiting for her to finish. You're a decent man, Mr. Circio, but I don't know if you've been listening to some of your colleagues' exposure. Mr. Goran Jesic mentioned Alexander Vukic a million times...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2558	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2559	He said he was a dictator, that he is the president of every municipality in Serbia, that he is the mayor of every city in Serbia. He said Alexander Vukic told his community presidents that they were idiots. That's what Mr. Goran Jesic said, and here's the gentleman behind you. (Goran Djiric, from the post: The prime minister said. ) Mr. Ciric, that's what Goran Jesic said. Goran Jesic said he is withdrawing the amendment, because we are all idiots, because we do not understand the DS argument against the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Mrs Gordana Comić was mortally offended, because one of my colleagues mentioned Branislav Kuzmanovic, for God's sake that man is not there, and a million times in a negative context was mentioned by Aleksandar Vukic as a villain, as a dictator, as someone who takes money, who robs, is mentioned by Brother Alexander Vukic, and you have not responded to that. Don't expect us from the SNS then to keep quiet in front of the fact that all that brings you together is, look, I won't use the word hate, but one deep impatience towards Alexander Vukic as a man and the government he leads. If it weren't for that, you wouldn't be honoring Mrs. Ani Brnabic for her being here as a representative of the government. This is a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is up to the Serbian government to determine who will represent it in the National Assembly. As Mrs. Brnabic could have been, he could have been any other minister. That didn't bother you when your colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2560	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Replica, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2561	He speaks to me personally, yes. And I'll be polite to the end and you're right. And now I'm going to be polite just to hear differently what Mr. Jesic said, because I want to check on the stenogram exactly what he said and I think it's very easy to check it out, and I'm going to tell you what I heard what he said. So he said and quoted the prime minister as commenting on Savamal and the people who broke up with the phantoms at night, saying that the complete idiots were because they destroyed that Savamal. Here he mentioned the term “complete idiots” which he did not naturally refer to any of you. If the stenogram shows otherwise, I will address anyone in this room in such a way as to apologize. So if the stenogram proves it, I apologize to everyone, but he didn't say that. He said and quoted the prime minister's words. Do I have the need to love the Prime Minister? It's my personal business. No, I don't. I don't hate him, not a word of my own, nor do we need to direct such words about each other here in the O.R., but also about those who are out of this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2562	Right to the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic and then we really end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2563	I don't hate anyone. You have to understand the whole context in which something happened. Goran Jesic is and there is Mr Risticevic perfectly right, orally withdrew the amendment, which is not possible according to the Rules of Procedure, and he has previously said that we are idiots because we do not understand his amendment, so since we are idiots and we do not understand all the genius that is contained in that amendment, that is, by the oral means he withdraws it. How many times have your deputies said that Minister Vujovic is a coward, where Minister Vujovic, who flees the National Assembly, what will the presidents of the municipalities and mayors in general when Alexander Vukic is there, he is a dictator, he steals money, he robs, he does not know what, for one he is a traitor, for some others he is a villain. If you want a decent debate, if you want us not to talk about people who aren't present in the O.R., then let's put these criteria in place for everyone. Then don't be angry when someone mentions your president of the municipality who did something illegal on our information. Imagine if a president of the SNS municipality had hired as your president of the Old Town municipality has indeed done 80 assistants of the president of the municipality, on Vrakar, where has he been? Eighty assistants of the president of the municipality, and under the Law on Local Self-Government, the president of the municipality can have, unless I'm the most wrongful of three assistants. He had 80 of them. Great, Keno, you beat us all over Serbia, I just don't know why you're so few. So, when someone mentions that some president of the municipality hired DS 80 assistants, then it's a great insult to some of your colleagues, but that's why you can hit up to the will of Alexander Vukic. We SNS deputies have an obligation to protect Mr. Alexander Vukic from such attacks, unencipile, colored personal emotions, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2564	In accordance with Article 112. My Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly determines a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2565	We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2566	Ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with the nice tones that eventually appeared in the Assembly, and I think it's a model, because the assembly eventually in one great way is actually shaping and the behavior of people in this country. Unfortunately, the minister has left, so I will still ask her a good idea in the form of a ministerial issue, and it would be very useful if this issue were presented here, so that the issue of having an internal audit problem, which would significantly contribute to the quality of financial reporting in municipalities reduces expenditure and helps fiscal consolidation, will leave behind the form Tuesdays and Thursdays. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-06-0.u2567	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. Mr. Milojich, on what basis? (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Mr Martinovic mentioned me twice. I don't think he has a basis for replication. I think we're done with the replicas. It was too much for the end of this debate, which takes a long time. There'll be more opportunities. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, 7 October 2016, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you.
