ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to start work. Dear People's MPs, please pay our respects to Sladjana Stankovic and Jovica Stepic, officers of our Embassy in Libya, who tragically lost their lives on Friday. May their eternal glory be, and thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Olena Papuga and Stefan Miladanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to reflect the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. The following D n e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on public undertakings; 2. Proposal for a Law on Metrology; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of articles of precious metals; 4. Proposal for a law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels Željzara Smederevo d.o.o. Smederevo; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PPP and concessions; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on international road traffic; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to Article 1(a), Articles 14(1) and 14(3)(b) of the European Agreement of 30 September 1957 on international road transport of dangerous goods (ADR); 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of intellectual property during bilateral military-technical co-operation; 13. Proposal for a Law on Public Health; 14. Proposal for a law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases. National MP Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle and uniform search be carried out on the proposed items of the agenda from 1 to 14. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50283	Dear President, I have not heard that you have explained in accordance with article 86 why this session has been convened within a short period of seven days, as said Article 86. He says in point 2 that they can be convened in a shorter period, but says -- the president of the National Assembly is obliged at the beginning of the session to explain such a procedure. You haven't explained why this session was called in less than 48 hours ago. The assembly was seduced in the Assembly shortly before 16 o'clock on Saturday, with 14 points in the agenda, five of which were passed by the government on Saturday morning, and were delivered to the Assembly minutes before the session was scheduled for lawmakers. Only three of these laws are not an emergency procedure. I thought we saw everything in this session, and I didn't expect that parliamentary work could be further elaborated in this way, that MPs had no opportunity to get to know the laws, put amendments on them eventually and participate in the debate in quality. You were obliged to explain your actions to us, and you didn't. I ask you to explain to us what you want to hide in this session today? A few days ago, you tried to hide the agreement between Serbia and NATO. You had several thousand people on the streets of Belgrade two days ago. After this session, will you have 100,000 people on the streets? I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to give us an explanation as to why the session has been convened within a period shorter than seven days, as the Rules of Procedure has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50284	Thank you. He has no intention of hiding anything. I don't understand the remark that something wanted to hide in the previous session, an agreement that, as far as I can tell, is about ten years old in the media and in its memories. I think your observation is more political than essential. I'm sorry if I haven't read the usual explanation of the reason for the session's appointment shorter than the usual seven-day period, but it's under 48 hours, but it's been completed 24 hours, too, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I can read it. Therefore, pursuant to Article 86(2) and Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, this sitting shall be convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure shall, therefore, go beyond those laid down in Article 87(1) for the purposes of the need for the Assembly to consider as soon as possible the draft laws of the agenda set out in the Government's request. As you know, we are in an extraordinary session and it is only up to us to schedule a session at the request of an authorised promoter for Monday, for Tuesday, and as you know we expect soon to call elections for this Parliament and there is a reason why we must have the essential reasons to explain and lead the discussion, to submit amendments and to adopt some of these laws or everything. We'll see, it depends on most MPs who have an attitude, I can't judge it. I assume you want us to vote for the injury? (Yes) Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50285	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I am advocating Article 27. Rules of Procedure and I suggest that you, the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, submit your personal authority and authority to you by the institution of which you are president, i.e. to influence the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Bejčić, the members and members of the Government to withdraw the request that at this extraordinary session of the National Assembly of 14 proposed laws be discussed within a single item of the agenda, respected presidents of the National Assembly, since the solutions that I have reached by reading these drafts of the law are not conditioned by each other, as the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Bečić sent us in his letter. Since, I think, solutions, for example, in the proposal for a law on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of the Economic Society for the production and processing of steel "Zelezar" Smederevo and the solutions of the Law on Public Health or the Bill on the Protection of People from Infectious Diseases, they are not conditional on each other, and that, in addition, Vice President Becic did not explain to us, nor did he explain how he came to believe that they were conditioned, I urge you to withdraw this request, because otherwise we will be forced to go to the institution, the president of the National Assembly, by reading, explaining that all citizens would hear that this solution is not mutually stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50286	Thank you. It's your right, and I assume we'll go member by member. This is no problem, and the right of MPs, not as vice-presidents, but as MPs, is that, in accordance with Article 92, it proposes a merger of debates, and in accordance with Article 157, it is up to us whether we accept it or not. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr Becic did not reason. I cannot challenge anyone's right to use the Rules of Procedure. I can ask him, but I can't challenge his right. Do you want to vote? (Yes) Does MP Igor Becic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote on the merger of points 1 to 14 of the agenda. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – 12 abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of Parliamentarian Igor Becic. We're going to work on the agenda. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50287	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to take advantage of the possibility that by Article 97. I propose to the Rules of Procedure a longer search time than the Rules of Procedure set out for five hours. Namely, the ruling majority adopted a joint search, 14 agenda points, which, as counterpart Pavicevic said, have nothing to do with each other and for the government's representatives under these laws are determined by five ministers in the Serbian government and we believe that if we want to hold a quality debate under these laws to be held in parliament, which is where laws should be spoken, not on the streets, to extend the time of debate, so that as many MPs as possible can participate in the debate and to give their opinion on the drafts of the law. So here are the laws that come from the areas of finance, economy, health, traffic and trade and telecommunications, several international agreements. I think there are a lot of people who are interested in the discussion and that it would be okay, when we're already running this joint search, that we have the opportunity to have twice as long to explain our views under these totally incompatible laws, since you've just decided to conduct a joint search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50288	You heard the proposal of MP Mark Djurisic. I'd like to make a statement about the proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – 14, against. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend today's session by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Zeljko Sertic, Minister of Business, Dr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister, and Dr Zoran Lončar, Minister of Health, as well as their associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Public Enterprises; Proposal for a Law on Metrology; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of Objects of Precious Metals; Proposal for a Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and waters of the Economic Society for the Production and Processing of Steels of Želizar Smederevo d.o.o. Smederevo; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income Taxation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Great Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxation and Property; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey; Proposal for a Law on Transit between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on International Social Transport; Proposal for the Protocol on the Amending of the Change of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Treaty on Security of 30. Does the proposal's representative want the word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50289	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this law regulates the protection of the population from infectious diseases and specific health issues, determines infectious diseases that threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and whose prevention and prevention is of general interest to our country, the implementation of epidemiological surveillance and measures, the way they are implemented and the means to implement them, the control of the enforcement of this law, as well as other issues of importance for the protection of the population from infectious diseases. In view of the fact that more than ten years have passed since the adoption of this law and during this period there has been a development of healthcare, as well as the need to implement and bring national legislation into line with European regulations, i.e. the International Health Regulation, other international acts and recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the EU, a new law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases has been joined. The importance of adopting laws on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is primarily that it provides a high level of protection of human life and health, prevention and control of infectious diseases, as well as their removal and eradication. The adoption of this law will comprehensively regulate the relevant aspects of the conditions for the protection of the population from infectious diseases, which will implement the planning, organisation and application of the prescribed measures, the control of the implementation of these measures and the provision of material and other means to implement them. The implementation of measures to protect the population from infectious diseases prescribed by this law and the provision of funds for their implementation shall have priority in implementing other measures in the field of health care. It is the task of the Republic of Serbia to carry out more effectively through its competent authorities the right to do so as effectively as possible, in order to protect the population from infectious diseases. At present, the area of protection against infectious diseases has been regulated in a certain way through 12 laws. The Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases regulates the protection of populations against infectious diseases in such a way as to comprehensively define measures for the protection of populations against infectious diseases, the conduct of epidemiological surveillance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50290	Mr. Minister, we have an objection from the MPs not to hear, so just turn the microphone around a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50291	The proposed legal solution increases the degree of protection of the population from infectious diseases that threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and whose prevention, early detection and repression is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. In addition to existing measures and measures: early detection of sources, tanks and routes of transmission of infectious diseases, information of health workers and the population, and others, these laws are also prescribed, i.e. in line with EU regulations, and the following measures: early detection of sources, tanks and routes of transmission of infectious diseases, information of health professionals and others. The European Commission's specific recommendation sets out a new term of "case definition". Infectious diseases are defined by certain criteria and given by category and related to a specific health issue relating to the implementation of epidemiological surveillance and measures applied to the prevention and control of infectious disease. Accurate measures and general measures have been taken to protect the population from infectious diseases, as well as the obligation of competent authorities, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, legal entities, entrepreneurs and natural persons to organise and implement measures to protect against infectious diseases. With regard to immunisation, a provision on mandatory immunisation has been made, recommended in the case of an outbreak of infectious diseases, mandatory emergency immunisation with regard to the conditions of transport and storage until use, vaccines and serums, the principle of the cold chain is applied, and the supervision is carried out by the competent authority of the sanitary inspection. Immunisation is mandatory for: persons of a certain age, against tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, large cough, childhood paralysis, small goddess, rubella, mumps, viral hepatitis B, diseases caused by haemophilia, influenza type B, and diseases caused by streptocococcal pneumonia, persons exposed to certain infectious diseases of hepatitis B, hepatitis A, abdominal typhoids, rabies, tetanus, individuals who may be exposed during their work to these infectious diseases, persons at particular risk of hepatitis B, influenza, meningal diseases, diseases caused by streptoco-pneumonia and homophyllus influenza B, varicella, infections caused by respiratory, sysuria, immunodeficients and patients. People employed in healthcare institutions against certain infectious diseases refer to persons in departments with an increased risk of surgical branching, etc. Travellers in international traffic, against yellow fever and other infectious diseases at the request of the countries to which they travel. For the stay of children in preschool institutions, as well as children's accommodation institutions without parental ageing, immunisation is required, except in the case of medical contraindication established by a doctor of medical care, an appropriate speciality or an expert counterindication team. The recommended immunisation is the immunisation recommended by a doctor or specialist of appropriate branches of medicine, according to the population immunisation programme against certain infectious diseases, for: persons of a certain age against varicella, HPV infection, hepatitis A and B, influenza, diseases caused by streptococo-pneumonia and others in accordance with the law. According to clinical indications against hepatitis A and B, influenza and diseases caused by streptococcal pneumonia and others in accordance with the law. Travellers in international traffic against typhoid, hepatitis A and B, flu, polio and others in accordance with the law. Also, this law will clearly establish appropriate measures, rights and obligations for operators to implement, combat, eradicate infectious diseases. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, and funds for the implementation of this law for 2017 will be planned in accordance with the budgetary activities of the Republic of Serbia. The Law on the Protection of Peoples against Contagious Diseases provides for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts, which will be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law by the Minister responsible for Health Affairs. Until the adoption of sub-legislative acts based on the powers laid down in this law and applied to regulations adopted under the current Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, if they are not contrary to the law. The draft law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases was planned through the health ministry's work plan, for the second quarter of 2016 with the government's 2016 work plan. The Law on Public Health is regulated in the area of public health activity, the responsibility of planning activities by preserving and improving the health of the population as well as the way of funding. The aim of this law is to achieve public interest by creating conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of the population through the comprehensive activities of society. The public health area in the Republic of Serbia is regulated by a special law and is directly governed by a number of other regulations beginning with the Constitution as the highest legislative law through other laws and appropriate sublaws. The Public Health Act was adopted on 3 September 2009, as of 9 September 2009, when the law came into force, significant changes took place and new public health documents were adopted in Europe and the world that should be followed by the Republic of Serbia, so that the adoption of a new law on public health is the best way for comprehensive regulation and resolution of these significant social issues. In that context, the options for amending and supplementing the applicable Public Health Act have been considered, however, the scope of amendments and newspapers in the working version of the law which is proposed to be irrational in order to maintain the text of the existing law. The number of existing legal acts does not speak of their application in practice, on the contrary, because of the number of regulations and overlapping powers, problems in their effective application are observed. The current Public Health Act did not provide for public health to be implemented in all policies. The adoption of this public health law is necessary in order to bring the ten key areas of public health in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe. Key areas of public health activities include the supervision of the health welfare of the population, monitoring and response to health and emergency situations, health protection including the safety of the environment and work environment, food and others, health promotion including activities aimed at social health and health inequalities, prevention, prevention and control of diseases including early detection, the provision of good governance for health and well-being, the provision of sufficient competent public-health personnel, the provision of sustainable organisational structures and funding, representation, communication, social mobilisation for health and improvement of public health research for policy and practice based on information. Analyzing a valid regulation register in the Republic of Serbia, it has been established that there are more than 170 rules directly or indirectly relating to public health, law, regulation, provisions, rules, orders, instructions. The current Law on Public Health was based on the knowledge, experience in this area, and the rules on public health can be found in legislative areas outside the public health system. The adoption of a new public health law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia will address the above-mentioned problem of a number of public health regulations, contained in specific regulations in different areas outside the health care system, as well as in coordination with key areas of public health. Public health will be recognised as a priority action and compensation with new approaches. This law will explicitly establish the obligations of the holder and all participants in the performance of public health activities. In addition to the above, it has been observed that there are number of difficulties that point to shortcomings and weaknesses in functioning, particularly in conditions for the current health care system to be preserved with growing health problems related to the environment, lifestyle, population, poverty problem and the problem of vulnerable, particularly at risk of economically under-involved groups of populations. Institutes, public health institutions should have an inspectorial approach in addressing the problem of the community, and the basic concept of public health should be based on broad cooperation between various social and economic operators. The aim of the adoption of this law is to achieve public interest by creating conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of the population through comprehensive activities in society. Health access should also be achieved in all EU and World Health Organisation policies, as well as empowerment of local self-government units to carry out activities in the field of public health. In addition, the adoption of a new law will allow for the next objectives foreseen by the Public Health Strategy of the Republic of Serbia – monitoring, analysis of health needs, the preservation of the community, monitoring and control of infectious and non-infectious diseases, injuries, promotion and support for healthy lifestyles, promotion and support for public health policy, the development and education of human resources in the field of public health, the setting up and development of partnerships in the resolution of public health problems, promotion of development, support and launch of actions that provide a healthy working environment, promotion, development and support for health at all ages, promotion, development and support of actions to improve health conditions among all groups of the population, support for the development of accessible and quality health care. Therefore, the adoption of a new law is the best way to address the above problems, as well as the fact that areas of public health are governed by rules in the implementation and competences of several ministries. The reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure are significant changes that have taken place since the adoption of the applicable Health Law and the adoption of new single-health documents in Europe and the world that the RS as a candidate for EU membership is obliged to install into legislation that should follow as urgently as possible and should apply the objective of preserving and improving public health. Regulation of the area of public health based on the regulation of the principle of public health in the field of public health, social care for public health, the National Council for Public Health, the conditions and obligations for public health, and the other subject matter of legislation, and therefore the area can only be regulated in this way. We note that the adoption of a new law will affect the work of the Health Council in units of local self-government in accordance with the Patients' Rights Act. In this law, it is prescribed that the local self-government unit is obliged to form a health advice and to bring an annual report on the work and measures taken to protect the rights of the patient. This law also stipulates that each unit of local self-government forms a health advice that, in addition to obligations under the Law on the Law of Patients, will also carry out certain tasks in the field of public health. The proposed solutions will also influence the establishment of the National Council for Public Health, as well as the empowerment of the Institute for Public Health as a carrier of activities in the field of public health. No new costs have been observed, only a better organisation and redistribution of the budgets of local self-government units in terms of support for improving health, accepting responsibility for healthcare institutions and other public health participants in their territory. We believe that the positive effects of the law absolutely justify any costs that local self-government would have only in terms of redistributing funds from the existing budget and shifting to active public health. In accordance with Article 41. The Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, reached a conclusion on the implementation of a public debate on the draft public health law. The public debate programme and the deadline of 4 to 24 December 2015 have been established, in which it is to be implemented and that it is the holder of the public debate on the draft public health law of the Ministry of Health. The public debate on the draft public health law was held within the time limit set for representatives of state bodies, public services organisations and chambers of health workers, chambers of health institutions, patient associations, and all interested entities, legal and natural persons participating in the achievement of health care, and for representatives of the Civil Protection Officer, the Commissioner for the availability of information of public importance and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The public had the opportunity to contribute through a specifically open e-mail order, and the text of the bill was set up on the Health Ministry website and on the E-Government Portal. The draft of this public health law was previously discussed firstly in two expert discussions, and then in the context of four particularly organised public discussions. A total of more than 550 experts and individuals interested in the public and institutions and associations of citizens, UNICEF, participated in the public debate. The World Health Organization has had the opportunity to express and deliver in writing observations, suggestions and suggestions. In addition to the registered, oral number of written objections received, the proposal and suggestions for the duration of the debate were 13 and all were valuable and considered. Some suggestions and remarks were excellent, but also too specific and could not be integrated into the text of the draft law. They have been taken into account and will be integrated into the envisaged sublaw after the adoption of the law. Since the entry into force of this law, it is necessary to adopt appropriate prescribed sublaws defining closer to the conditions in the field of public health. Regulation on the implementation of public health and environmental and public health areas, rules on the implementation of public health in the field of working environment and health of the working population, the Regulation on the functioning in the field of public health. During the application of this law, all activities prescribed by this law and special attention will be carried out to establish the database necessary for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50292	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does Mr. Sertic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50293	Good afternoon again. I welcome the Honorable Presidency and all of you MPs. Today, at least in my portfolio, we will present six laws that are very connected to each other and make one whole in solving and trying all efforts to solve everything that has not been done in the previous years or has been done and then we have seen certain irregularities in the meantime, and this way we are trying to correct these irregularities, all in the interest of improving the business environment and attracting investments, opening new jobs and realising all those jobs that have been realised not only in SNS policy, but also in the prime minister's exposure from the moment he took over. The first law likely to raise the most questions and controversy among all MPs is the Law on Public Enterprises. We have already had the opportunity to hear in public certain comments and objections to this law from different stakeholders, by the politicians and the people representing politics in our country, who considered the law to be too strict, by independent bodies who sought to sharpen certain conditions, by the NGO sector which had its own objections etc. Our task was to try to sublime all of this to the best, the most sustainable and wisest points of this law to get results, and the goal of this law was to ensure that our businesses can operate in the long term. Public enterprises exist in this Serbia because the state has given them the right to do certain public interest and public work. So, you don't have public companies all that can survive in the market, or they've got a certain monopoly, and they can define their incomes or receive subsidies from the state based on that monopoly, and then the question is how do these subsidies control it? In the Republic of Serbia today, we have 37 companies at the republican level and 691 companies at the local site. Believe me, the largest number of problems were seen precisely in the functioning of the local company and the largest number of abuses or use of insufficiently precise and clearly defined points of the law, the previous Company Act conditioned that we had many bad examples that all ended up negatively for fiscal effects in the Republic of Serbia. The moment a certain company at local level is shut down and left to function formally and the employees are transferred to another company under a similar name and teaching to function, all the minuses from this company move first to local self-government and then have an implications for Serbia's budget. It's just one of the details of what we wanted and what we saw in these problems and how we wanted to solve them. There are two strategic features, two strategic political decisions that have been made and which define this law on public enterprises as completely different. The first is that social policy cannot be managed through public enterprises and should not be managed. Public enterprises must be sustainable. They must be either profitable, if they have the conditions to do so, or to be on what is said to be a positive zero with subsidies and with all the donations that the state makes for them or the rights it gives them, but they must be well managed and they must have professional management and we must all know that all Serbian citizens must be convinced that these public enterprises are not the source of corruption and are the source of the political staff alone, but that they are truly in the role of the citizens of Serbia, in the function of the economy and in the function of the basic state. The second important part is the decision to get the state out or slowly come out of business aspects. The state is there to regulate the economic environment, to give opportunities for domestic and foreign investment, to have a greater number of people have the right to work, to allow our laws here in the Assembly to make people want to start their own companies or those who already work to expand, but it's impossible for the state to be the one to start companies and to work and it's a big change. First, we start with public enterprises, and that is why we have provided for a series of measures to seriously narrow down the business of public enterprises and people who run public enterprises, whether it be the directors, whether it be the members of the supervisory board, they will have to have high professional performances, they will have to be responsible. Now, when I explain certain points, I will also give you all those abuses and opportunities that were left in the previous law. Another important thing about financial implications on our budget is that we had almost 2.2% of GDP in 2014. It's a huge minus that gives us a burden on our budget. According to the plan adopted by the finance ministry, by 2018 that part should fall to 0.5%. So the current government no longer allows anyone, not one company to receive a guarantee or funding from the budget for any ongoing loss business, except for the development projects that we have in this year and that is seen in the results. The losses of public enterprises are huge. In 2013, over 55 billion dinars amounted to over 40 billion dinars in 2014. For the first time in 2015, the state began to manage a centralised way of managing and controlling public enterprises. For the first time, we gave precise instructions to public companies how and how they should fill out their business plans and how we will control them in the future. Every three months, so every quarter, public enterprises had an obligation to submit their reports and in those reports at the end of 2014, so in plans for 2015, we predicted total losses to about 35 billion dinars. We don't have the consolidated data yet, because the data isn't all finished, they're not handed over to the Agency for Business Registers, but by all the effects we have so far, through these three quarks that we measured, I think we'll be able to realise that plan, which was a drastic deviation from everything that was in the previous period. These are all general stories of what we should do and how, and now I'm going to explain to you just a few key points of the law, which I believe you've had time to read and to see what all of these vagueities and problems were during the previous periods and what it was that we tried to introduce with this law. As a first thing, the current law has not clearly defined what the framework of public enterprises means and what it is where the state should control and in what way. It's not enough just for a public company to have the name of a public enterprise and to be part of state control after automation. We have now expanded this and the government will bring, on the basis of this law, if adopted in this assembly, the measures and lists of companies over which monitoring will take place, and will be extended to all companies where the state has at least 25% of the capital. You have a lot of such companies in the country that no one has ever taken care of, or in any way had the opportunity to control the work. Also, when we talk about public enterprises again to a large extent at local level, it is a public partnership issue, and we will have a law that I will explain a little later, which we have made in the Law on Public Private Partnership, it has been enough for a certain local self-government through its public company to create a contract with a private company and no other framework has been defined in any way to regulate it, which are criteria that a company needs to meet and how the whole process is managed. We are now very clearly defining two things. First of all, that all public enterprises, especially local companies, can no longer form an additional company in the same activity, there were the most abuses, except in cases of public private partnership and must be defined through the Public Private Partnership Act. In this way, not only in terms of transparency that we will be open to the public having insight into what is done in every municipality, but we will oblige potential partners not to enter for speculative reasons in collaboration with our municipalities, in the most part of the municipal activities, but to really get credible partners who will be able to define their interests in the right way. Also, so far, we have not only defined good conditions for the director of the company, but we have not had conditions for members of the supervisory board, so there is not at all a single item that would in any way limit a person who would be a candidate for a board member, that has any connection to the profession or to what a public private partnership is doing. Today you have a series of very clear, very precisely defined terms in the law of what you should have from education, what experience you should have, in what way to function and especially one of the extremely important members, which is also applicable to public companies directors, was the question, I was extremely surprised when I found out about this data, because I had no opportunity to hear it before, and that is that under the current law, the director of the company could be a convicted person, could be a murderer, could be a drug dealer, could even sell drugs, produce narcotics and be the director of a public enterprise. So the question of our public enterprises has been widely raised, and then you realize how much abuse from such a definition of the law could have been made public and how all this framework could have been defined. Not to say that we had the opportunity to even hire directors and put people who had an obligation to treat. They could have been psychiatric patients, they could have been treated drug addicts, they could have had other problems that certain specialised institutions gave a warrant for their hospitalization, treatment or some third activity, and you had an open opportunity to put such a person in a very, very responsible place. It is not only those large enterprises, which are mostly in the public's focus, four or five of the largest in the Republic or an additional 32, but at the 691 company, the selection of directors under the current law was completely out of line even these rules that have been defined by the current law for the republican enterprises. So, a classic labor contract, he could sign up for anyone who got that paper that he was medically capable of. Then we wonder where we get that kind of problem and everything that's been going on. Then, a question that is very often mentioned in public, which is the question – could the director of a public enterprise be a member of a particular political party? Why couldn't he, but under the conditions that we have defined in this law, which are in no way different from what the existing law has. So, and the current law, the current law says the director of a public enterprise cannot be a member of the party's body. In this regard, a big issue has now been raised in public, and some have asked us to put it away to allow people who are active members, senior officials of political authorities, parties can be directors, and the other part of the public has asked to speed up the circumstances to the extent that they cannot even be a member. We've made some kind of solution that's in line with this existing one, so with the matter of rest, because we can't and it's not fair or correct to rule out policy-makers, but if someone's engaged in public enterprises, if they've got a public interest in their own hands, and you'll see in some other things where we've given these directors a lot more rights than we've given them so far, they have to be maximumly committed to this job and they have to function. In that sense, we have defined that the director of a public enterprise cannot have a deputy. In a number of cases, it was functions that were intertwined, it didn't know who was right and then we came into that story – it wasn't me, he signed it, and you came into one situation so you couldn't find out who the real problem was and why a certain business decision was made, and she finally made a negative result. Our interest, like in all companies, is, as in any good, positive corporate governance, that we have defined liability holders. In public enterprises, it is the Supervisory Board with its defined views and personality, which is the director of the company, which has its rights but also its obligations. In these practice rights, from what we got from the company as an example, we changed that and suggested that the Executive Board be abolished. That doesn't mean that the executive board can't exist, but if the company's statute defines it. The members of that Executive Board, i.e. the Executive Directors, shall be elected by the Director to whom the mandate is given to carry out. Under the current law, you had the Supervisory Board elected members of the Executive Board, so someone else is choosing the closest associates of you who have been assigned to do something, so there's nothing to do. Imagine a private company or some corporation where your shareholders determine and tell you -- you have to implement a plan with these positions that you have, income so much, expenditure to run as little as possible, and then put five or ten people aside to implement it. That's not the way to answer, and in those moments we always have a transfer of responsibility from one member to another. We have also now defined by law very clearly and precisely that all local officials, therefore, are talking about local officials, public enterprises are chosen in the same way as the Republic. So no more work contracts, no more broad interpretation of rights, but all that applies to a republican official in a public enterprise is also valid at the place. As for the discharge of directors and board members, it is also very clear for the first time why it can be and must be resolved. Very clear and precise, without any interpretation. For the first time, we have introduced criminal provisions between 50 and 150 thousand dinars for certain persons responsible for this. It's not a little money. We have a pay-out limit and pay-out rates in the public sector. So if your entire salary and the whole month you're supposed to receive at the end of the month you have to pay some punishment, it's not that simple and it's for the first time introduced. Also defined are the conditions for which the director of a public enterprise can also be removed before that. We've introduced a license for members of the Supervisory Board. They can't be senior members of the Supervisory Board just people who are involved in politics or other areas, so they can be rewarded to be a member of the Supervisory Board. It has to be, then, first about business issues. Secondly, we have seriously reduced the total number of members of the Supervisory Board who were once completely without restrictions and then you have a large number of people coming there to gather something, apologize, take the diaries or not take the coffee and finish the job. So, one complete professionalisation of the public sector is important to us, and in this sense we will make very clear rules and regulations within the next six months, based on which both directors and members of the supervisory boards will have to undergo training, to beach training, to obtain a certificate so that they can be members of the Supervisory Board at all. Finally, about public enterprises, another very important thing, and these are the business plans I talked about at the beginning. What has the practice shown so far? That these business plans were a dead letter on paper. We won last year for adoption from two or three years ago from business plans. And where do we talk about some final accounts, so we can get some analysis and, in some real time, make sure you keep an eye on the work of these companies as professionally as possible? Normally, there's been a lot of abuse here, that you have on that so-called. GPP's different items, that for some reason the director can say – this year I'm not going to invest the way the board of directors gave me, but I'm going to spend the money to buy a new car. Then you have public companies that have the best cars in the country, better than the president of the state, the prime minister and all the other high-ranking companies. It's not about wanting us to have good cars, it's about following the same economic strength of our country, and it's not about public enterprises. Why? Because gentlemen were much easier and cheaper to buy a car than to control investments, unless they could through investments have some interest. No company under the law will be able to get a adopted business plan if it spends money first, and then requires budget rebalances, and so far it has been in 95% of the cases. So, you spend it all, fix it, regulate it, and at the end of the year bring a new plan to the board of directors and say – we couldn't bring it any better this year. Anyway, 90% of board members don't know what it's about, they adopt it, it comes to the government, and as a result, we have a catastrophic situation again. So, first thing, it will have the obligation to deliver annual business plans, all enterprises that are not on the budget, is required until December 1st, so we have a month to control and put on government, to be operational on January 1st. All companies receiving subsidies from the state are 15 days after the adoption of the budget. Every three months, so quarterly, they have to deliver reports, reports that will be controlled, and on the first suspicion of any abuse, change, machination in the company, we'll have a way to react and how to notify. Not only do we react through the Serbian government, but we also have to inform the public, because all data will have to be made available to the public. A large number of data requested will have to be published now publicly on company websites. So this company control practice through a business plan is something that's done everywhere in the world. So every company, a private company, a large stock company, manages its assets, manages its results precisely through plans. So, you control the plans, you define the people who need to do it, you have the points of measurement on the monthly, the three-month, the six-month level, and on that basis you can manage, except in exceptional circumstances. We also predicted that in the event of emergency circumstances, the company has the right to address the competent ministry, or the Serbian government, to allow it to rebalance its business plan and that it must continue to function again based on these plans. It's going to be a lot of pressure on the directors and boards, because they're responsible for it, but we just said we're on our way. We said we were going for professionalization. So, we don't need entertainment in public enterprises anymore, we want to be serious, because that's the only way to put public enterprises in the position of citizens in business. It's all connected. You can't solve public enterprises without solving 550 companies in the social former companies sector that have owed billions to these same public enterprises. You can't solve public enterprises if you have social policy, so the price of gas at the entrance to the country is more expensive than what you sell to businesses or citizens, and that's all we find. I won't criticise why it was. Probably certain political, economical, conditional moments have sought such solutions, but we can't do that anymore, because the whole world has opened up. We're all on the open market today. And if we fail as a state to pack into one framework of good professional functioning, we will lose. Otherwise, in many countries today, the Balkans are seen as a black hole. We have to change our way. That's why politics is important. That's why all the elements of state policy and international relations in which you can be a factor of stability, not a remethyl factor, are important, and then you get negative implications, and above all through the economy they show up. We had this opportunity to see in the 1990s, which we unfortunately had in 1999 when we were bombed and we had this opportunity all these years ago, when someone came and told us – you have to do it and we act like we don't have to. Again, this law has been done with experts from the World Bank and the IMF, but we asked them to help us in what way, which are the areas, which are the details in which we need to have special attention in order to finally become responsible and try to implement it in the best possible way in our country. The second law that is related to this, and I mentioned it in this particular issue of local self-government and giving these rights to some general interest, is the Law on Public Private Partnership, which is very popular in the world today, and above all, the US leaders in this, and many of the jobs have been handed over to the private sector. Even some state-owned jobs that are unimaginable in Europe to be given to the private sector in terms of administrative services are now given through forms of public private partnership in the United States. Not to mention the largest subways in Europe were built on that. Not to mention how many other municipal jobs have been realised in Europe, and that is a cheap way and an effective way to achieve your goals. Cheap because you don't owe the state. So, the private investor finances his capital, enters the risk and shares the risk along with the state. So there's no implications for fiscal elements. On the other hand, it's always a private company much more efficient than any state-owned, realising goals that are in the interest of citizens is much better, far faster to come to it and thus we have the realization of positive things. The Law on Public Private Partnership was adopted in 2011 by us in this House. However, for the past five years, only 34 contracts have been approved. Of those 34 contracts, we can name the ones that are good and good. Why? Because neither this law, and I mean that it was the first attempt to do something and get into that part, didn't cover enough clear and precise criteria and left the possibility of implementing certain negative consequences that we're going to have to deal with today, either by judicial means, whether by terminating the contract or by carrying out any other activity. Public private partnership is a good tool, a good model, but it has to be well controlled by the state and there must be knowledge. There must be knowledge at the republican level, especially at the local people who do it, in order to realize it. We are now working on a whole package of educational workshops and assistance, first of all, to local self-government, to allow us to define the best application of the law. As far as the law itself is concerned, several important changes have been made. Therefore, it is defined that, first of all, the subject of a public private partnership cannot be exclusively the supply of goods, except in cases where in these realised transactions it is concluded that a public partner must nevertheless have some part of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/her/her/her/his/his/her/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/ his/her/her/her/her/her/his/ his/ his/her/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/her/her/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/// his//////////// his/ his/ his/ his/// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his///// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his//////////////// his///////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////// his///////////////////// Afterwards, concessions on services have been defined by a contract to date. So, you could in some municipality for a concession, so, as a form of public private partnership, only on the basis of a contract that the municipality or the assembly votes and that nothing else exists, so there's no public work in all of this, there's no transparency. We have now defined that concessions on services must go according to the Public Procurement Act, therefore, according to one framework which clearly and precisely defines how it will work. Third, we allowed municipalities to publish for all these procurements, i.e. for concessions that were not defined by the contract, but some had already had to have a public announcement, most often the municipalities had to publish their public procurements, i.e. calls for concessions in the Financial Times, which was extremely expensive, and on this issue we had a lot of objections from the municipalities. The deal was, and we suggest to you that we adopt that in the Tenders electronic Daily, so the Internet presentation officially recognised in the world, that it is sufficient to publish the call and that it is valid enough to be defined in such a way. What's still very important, we've noticed, you have somewhere, above all in communal activity, millions worth of investment, two or five million euros. However, you have in certain actions tens of millions of euros in certain investments that you have to make, given that we are doing a full fiscal consolidation, in order to further define the behaviour of the state authorities, but also to show the partners, therefore to private companies, how much the state takes care of each of its dinar and the rights it gives, we have defined this law and we have also proposed to you, MPs, to adopt for all transactions, that is, for all the rights that cross 50m euros, the Ministry of Finance gives special consent, so the experts of the Finance Ministry must go completely through that material and give their consent. There are a few more technical things we'll probably be going through in the discussion. I wouldn't deal with this law anymore, given that it's been a long time to explain, but I really think it's very important that we understand what our goals have been and what way of working. You have received a short bill regarding "The Iron" Smederevo. There were a lot of questions. A moment ago, we heard why this law came so suddenly and in what way. We can talk about "The Irons" for hours to talk about whether "The Irons" ever made profit in its past, how much money was invested, how it was treated, what it was like to be an idea in former former Yugoslavia, how it worked in a period when the state didn't control and rules the depth control of all these companies, whether all the assets that were invested, the assets that were given to "The Irons", whether it was ever returned to the workers or to someone else. But the fact is that "The Iron" represents a serious pillar of development to us. The potential of its development is enormous and we “the Iron” cannot be left without the help of the state, in terms of all the elements we can give. We made arrangements with the IMF, we took steps to join the European Union, and there are very strict rules. The European Union has very strict rules on steel and iron, as it also rests. The first contract of the European Community has just been made on steel and on iron. That is why all attention is directed to this. Let me not tell you, because of the current crisis, the huge crisis, I will explain to you in the debate what the crisis is all over the world about steel, how many interested companies in the world are that our Irons are shut down. You know what the problem is with us? It's not a problem to drive Iron away into bankruptcy, it's not a problem to say -- it won't work anymore, but we don't have 50 other iron and large companies that can make a substitution. We do not have hundreds of other major companies that we can say about – well, as it was done in England, or in the UK. It's shut down, 3,500 jobs are down and they've moved on to another job. In Spain, two months ago, the hardware store was closed for the same reasons. But in the same way, the largest European ironworks in Italy received over 500m euros in state aid from the country of Italy. You'll get all the information, whoever's nodding and whoever doesn't believe. So, an extremely serious crisis is about steel. We have serious problems. Our political task is to do everything we can to save "The Iron" and within all the positive norms I have talked about. We've negotiated with a large Chinese company about the possibility of taking over. I think in ten days we're going to make a public call to collect offers, so there's going to be a public call, every company in the world will be able to apply, under the same conditions that we're going to define in that public invitation to apply, so we're going to see if anyone is interested or we're going to stay on these negotiations that we have today. For us, it's a key thing to hire people. For us, it's a key thing that based on the proposal we've already heard from the companies we've been negotiating, to build new factories and expand production and to have a huge investment in our country, of several hundred million euros we haven't had, I don't know when we've been in our country lately. This law defines a very important part -- never before "The Iron" Smederevo, since it exists, has not defined its property rights in the way the law provides. Today, we don't know what Iron Man's property is. But do not say, "Why didn't you do it?" I ask all those tens of years ago why it wasn't done. In order to do the job right, so that we can talk to a credible partner and we can look for our conditions and we can set certain rules, we have to be a good partner. To be a good partner, we need to know what we're up against first. With this law, this Lex specialization, we're just speeding up a process that, by regular procedure, would take us a year to a year and a half, because of complexity, because of a very specific position, "The Irons" is not a building, it's not just a production plant, it's very specific. So the repurpose of the land, the definition of the water that goes through "The Iron", the definition of all the objects, almost a million squares, you have covered at three locations that are located, so the largest one is in Smederevo, you have drives in Kučev and in Šapec. All of this should be done in a short period, and we have decided to define to you MPs this way, in a very short period of time, after the adoption of the law, the properties of the Irons, and then we will see what happens. This property will be owned by the “Strengthens, ” or property of the state, until we privatise it. There'll be plenty of opportunities to talk about in the next period and about it. It is also before you, gentlemen MPs, and the subject of the debate will be the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of Objects of Precious Metals, therefore, all the important things that are not so well known in the public, but to us technically are very important to our businessmen who deal with these affairs. We are on the verge of joining the Convention for the Control and Marking of objects of precious metals and according to the standards of the European Union we have to imitate our laws with them. This amendment to the Law will allow us to use the international stamp on the moment we become full members of the Convention. What will that mean for our producers of precious metal objects? That with that stamp, you can export without any additional controls or additional costs. So this way we directly support our economy and our businessmen who will be able to carry out their own affairs without any further obligation or control. They'll have the right to place their mark. They'll have the right to get everything the state wants from one side, but with this same law, we'll regulate one more important thing. So far, it has happened that the inspector has come to a company that is involved in the production of precious metals and under the law had no right to control the company's full business. The company could have simply said, "Here's a storehouse of semi-products or whatever they call it, the inspector had no right to control it." We make this law possible and introduce the full order into a very sensitive, highly profitable and risky market. So, not only will we give rights to our companies and companies that they can do their jobs and obligations but we will also ask them to regulate at the highest levels of professional relations towards the state. Another law that comes from this set of technical laws is the Metrology Act, which will practically enable us to make clear the distinction between business between the Ministry of Economy and the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals in a few solutions. Conditions that must be met by state authorities to deal with these matters. The alignment of certain attitudes that are very important to us in that area. Obligation, too, to pass professional exams for all those people who deal with the area. So, even through this law, regardless of the technical regulations, we allow the state to have far more control and ask participants in this process to be good, safe and to carry out their jobs in a highly professional way. The last law, in short, is the law on amendments and additions, i.e. the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We know that in 2008, there was a major global economic crisis that first appeared in the United States, then it spread very easily and very quickly to the EU, which again because of its way of functioning failed in the right way to respond to this crisis, and somehow everyone was better at it than the EU itself, and it went all the way to us. When we talk about investment, about the number of employees, about all the results that we did in the previous year, yes, we should mention every time the conditions under which we work, because the recession in the EU, a small number of EU countries will be above zero growth this year. It's a big thing and the result not only of what we've done that since 2014, when we've had minus our development, we move to a positive 0.8, and this year we might get to 2% of our GDP, but it's important that we help all those who have had a problem over them. The biggest blow was small, so small businesses, entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises that had a problem from different influences from large companies to serve their obligations primarily to the state. If we take into account that we have no perfect system, no functioning of the tax administration, no state authorities, and that's clear and we're free to talk about it. I've come from the economy and I know the problems I've faced and I know my fellow businessmen who today have problems and we're working on all these elements to strengthen the work and realization of all these jobs in the coming time. Then it's fair as a state, to be patient with our citizens and say we'll help them too. Through this law that we have defined, above all, the help of small ones, we define that so far the debts of enterprises that have no more than two million dinars, so these are indeed the most frequent debts for tax liabilities, debacles and others. So we're allowing people who had the right to make a deal with the IRS up to 24 months of reprograms, now we're giving them 60 months. So, to make their wars less, they must also pay their current obligations. They are obliged to pay their current obligations, and they have debts from previous years. So the state in this sense is fiscally neutral because it expects all these revenues. By closing these small shops, we'll destroy jobs, destroy people's desire to work, create, and we won't get anything as a positive effect. In this sense, we have defined certain things that are likely to be the subject of debate and I will fight to explain to you every detail of this law why it is important, why it is important to help people through such a joint debate to come up with a common solution and to say that indeed in this year that the Serbian government has declared as a year of entrepreneurship, it is not just an empty letter on paper, because the years of entrepreneurship do not only involve loans, grants, therefore grants, implies a large number of laws, implies participation of both universities and the non-governmental sector and all those who in their own way can support the development of private business, i.e. the development of private initiatives. Private initiatives are crucial for our society and for our country, and in this sense I call upon you to support these laws that are before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50294	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a representative of the board, committee rapporteurs, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50295	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I would like to point out that at today's 53rd session of the Committee, most votes adopted a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual protection of intellectual property during bilateral military-technical co-operation. I would add to the traditional friendly relationship between the Russian Federation and our country and hope that the National Assembly will adopt this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50296	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Orlic, the board? The committee's rapporteur, too, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50297	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the position of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport and Telecommunications. At a session held this morning, the Committee discussed three bill proposals in the area of traffic. The present representatives of the ministry elaborated on the content of these draft laws. Meeted members of the Committee with the expected effects and, accordingly, it is jointly underlined to expect good results in the area of international traffic co-operation with the Republic of Turkey, as well as in the area of road traffic with Kazakhstan. So, good effects above all for our carriers, but more successful co-operation in every sense, underlining an economy that naturally goes hand in hand with traffic. When it comes to the Protocol relating to the European Agreement, it certainly concerns further compliance with international legislation. So, improvement of relationships, richer co-operation, fostering economy, high standards. Representatives, members of the Committee voted. So that vote was positive on all three laws, unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50298	Thank you. Mrs. Tomic, the committee's reporter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50299	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, and on behalf of the Committee, I would like first to thank Mr Minister for, in a comprehensive debate, really wanting to explain this set of laws concerning the economy where we have the most interested and members of the Committee from all parties, meaning not only the positions but also the opposition. When the debate is on the principle of both public enterprises and the work of declaring public interest for Jelizar but also a public private partnership in this division of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. So I thank the Minister for really explaining in this package all the problems that we really want to solve with these legal solutions when it comes to public private partnership. The Committee was indeed, I mean, interesting in that part, which was also evident in the presence of members and all political parties. I want to say that he was accepted by all members except, of course, the opposition members did not exercise their right to plead on him. I think that in the principle debate, we are really going to open up a number of issues that have been the result of policies that have been conducted for the past 12 years and that all these solutions will essentially be supported by most political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50300	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50301	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. First of all, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. As a positive change I'm going to make, what's most important, the changes that are in this law, and the biggest positive change is in terms of postponing debt tax payments from 24 months to 60 months, which we think is a positive thing. It is also the same newspaper that, when providing funds for tax collection, the limit is increased and so that the legal person instead of a million dinars, this limit is increased to 1.500,000 dinars, in entrepreneurs from 200,000 to 1.500,000, and in the face of a natural person from 100,000 dinars to 200. So, above these amounts, you need to fund security debts. The paper is the same at the interest rate that we need to single out that the tax debt is the calculation of interest on the tax debt will be equal to the annual reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia, which I also think is positive. I think with today's date it's 4.25%, that's quite a low interest rate, if we watch what's happened so far. As far as the interest relief is concerned, I must point out, if the taxpayer who has debts and regularly pays his dues, and besides, and his debt-by-debted liabilities, then he can get a 50% write-off for what he paid off and after 12 months. There's another item here about interest, and we think it's the same thing as positive, if the taxpayer he owes paid his debt before the deadline, then the same thing is written off 50% of the interest on that debt he paid. Certainly, the parliamentary group of the Duke of Hungarian Union will support this law. The second law I'm going to talk about in a little more detail, it's the Law on Public Enterprises. As we have heard and seen in the presentation of Mr. Minister, the law that applies has a lot of problems. The problem was that no action of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia has been precisely identified, as well as the actions necessary for the work of state authorities and units of local self-government. There was a problem with the Law which applied that the founding act did not contain data on the percentage shares of the founders in the underlying capital. There have been problems with the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Supervisory Board and the conditions for resolution, because the Law did not provide at all that if a president or member of the Supervisory Board could be resolved if he was convicted of a criminal offence during the term of office. I think that's what Mr. Secretary said. There were problems with the function of Deputy Director of Public Enterprises, the law itself was not prescribed by the Deputy Director, but we do know that every public company had a deputy director. Then, in the election of directors, there was also a problem that only a small number of public enterprises had chosen their director based on a public competition. These are just some of the problems that need to bring new laws into this law, which is in the bill, which is ahead of us, I'm going to set out some important newspapers, which we think are important in this law. First, the confidence of the exercise of activity of the general interest of the company of capital and of the entrepreneur, in accordance with the law governing public private partnership and concessions. I think it's also in the second law that's tied to this law in front of us. The second news is that strategically significant companies for the Republic of Serbia are indicated in which the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect ownership of at least 25% of the underlying capital and within six months, the government should establish a list of these companies. Another newspaper is that founders cannot set up another public enterprise to carry out the same activity of general interest, except in cases of realisation of a public private partnership project. It should be pointed out here that this prevents, above all, the local uncontrollable establishment of public enterprises. Some provisions are also specified in these provisions which I will now try to make, for example, more specific conditions for selecting members of the Supervisory Board and the selection process of directors of public enterprises. Then, the criteria for the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Supervisory Board were extended before the end of the period for which they were appointed. The Executive Board as another "excessive collective body" has been abolished, and the director is scheduled to elect executive directors, which personalises accountability, both directors and executive directors. The Director's responsibility for the adoption of a long-term and medium-term business strategy has been expanded. At that time, the conditions for the resolution of the Supervisory Board and the Director with new provisions have been strengthened, as well as indicated that the period of performance of the director's duties cannot be longer than one year, and the same person cannot be selected on V.D. The director twice. The obligation to adopt a long-term and medium-term strategy with the consent of the founders is foreseen, within one year of the date of adoption of this law. As Mr. Minister said, the deadline for the delivery of annual business plans for public enterprises not financed from the budget, whether from the Republic of Serbia or from the unit of local self-government or from the AP Vojvodina have a deadline of 1 December of the current year for the coming year and those financed by the budget by public enterprises have a deadline of 15 days after the adoption of the budget to the founders. If we are talking about plans, here in this law it is indicated that those public enterprises that are not financed from the budget, they have the opportunity to bring in a three-year business programme, which we think is positive. It is foreseen that the founders of public undertakings of the founding act of these companies must comply with the law within six months of the adoption of the law, and public undertakings are obliged to bring their general acts into line with the founding act within 90 days of the date of harmonisation of the founding act with the provisions of this law, which we believe is also positive. Members of the Supervisory Boards and representatives of the founders in the Assembly of Social Capital who do not meet the conditions laid down by this law will be resolved and the new shall be appointed no later than six months from the date of entry into this law. In public undertakings where the Director is not elected in public competition in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law, a public competition must be opened in accordance with the provisions of this law. I think it's the same positive thing. It is also foreseen that these public competitions which are scheduled must be completed no later than one year from the date of entry into force of this law. Based on these newspapers, positive newspapers, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws in voting day. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50302	Thank you, Mr. Peck. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50303	Dear Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, we have a very important set of laws ahead of us. I agree that he may have come a little late and we didn't have enough time to get to know each other, but we think that there's a pretty good reason for speed, after all, we have a two-month election, so it's all influencing, and it's particularly important laws, as is the Law on Public Enterprises. I have to stress in particular the Law amending the Law on Private Public Partnership is the one that needs a lot in Serbia to change in the coming period. First of all, in my presentation, I will focus on amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, on public enterprises, on amending the Law on Private Public Partnership and the Law on "The Irons" Smederevo. What I also want to say at the very beginning is that New Serbia will support the proposed amendments in the voting day, and, of course, support new laws. The laws themselves, at the beginning of the Law on Public Enterprises, all of you, Mr. Minister Sertic, presented in the opening presentation the situation where we have 37 public enterprises at the level of the Republic, 691 public enterprises at the level of the locals. Unfortunately, these public enterprises in previous years generate losses. These losses over the past three years have moved on some scale from 40 to 55 billion dinars. What you specifically apostrophe is the problem of local public enterprises. And this morning, when I spoke to the Committee on Economy, I told them a sentence, which I think is important, so I'm going to repeat it because, first of all, the citizens who are watching this transmission, which is that I think that the changes that are proposed are good and, of course, I'm going to count them later in the presentation, and I'm going to change. It is commendable and these are the reasons for which I will vote myself, and so is my parliamentary group, for the bill. But I think you could go one step ahead. Here whoever is from the MPs is sitting in a new assembly, and I hope that more or less the same composition will be, and that you will be a minister and that we will bring those steps in the next step. I suggested that, above all, the chairman of the supervisory board and the director of the public enterprise must personally guarantee the work of the public enterprise. So if we want public enterprises no longer, first of all, to make no losses, you have to limit them by law, sir, you want to be a director, no problem, but besides the property of a public company, you have to answer to personal property. One more thing, dear ministers, must no longer be allowed to public enterprises that, if they are losers, they can make donations to anyone. I don't think there's anywhere in the world, you're saying on the one hand that you can't allow it anymore, and I absolutely agree with that, that public enterprises, let me say, are the only social peace guards. I couldn't agree more. But you can't, like the government, shut up and shut up, so I'm not being rude, in front of the fact that public enterprises on the one hand are stockpiling losses, and on the other hand they're giving donations, and they have a monopoly in areas where they operate and then both citizens and we MPs are wondering if it's just because of, let's say, political orders. So I ask you to consider this remark, that in the future these two things clearly enter into some changes to the laws that we are likely to have in the next period. What's good and what I want to say is, these are colleagues who spoke before me, and that's a clear choice, first of all, of the director of public enterprises, and that's absolutely commendable. What's also important to say for the public is that one man can't be chosen for a man's duties for more than a year, from one time and that's a good thing. What I ask you is that still the government firmly, we had it similarly in the previous law, but it was not respected. We have responsibilities in large public enterprises that have been there for years, and the old law has limited it, but apparently someone didn't respect it. There must be responsibility for all this. As for the supervisory boards, you have provided that supervisory committees in public enterprises under the Republic have five members, under the authority of the Autonomous province and local self-government of three members, one member suggests the founder, whether it is autonomous province or local self-government, one so-called. an independent member who cannot be a member of a political party and who is the third person appointed by a public undertaking employee. That's absolutely not right. What I left as a personal remark, I think it may be unnecessary for the chairman of the Supervisory Board to, to say, choose and appoint by the founder. According to both the statutes of public enterprises and the Law on Public Enterprises, the chairman of the Supervisory Board is only the first among the equal. I do not see at all the need that if someone is the first among the equals not to be chosen at the first constitutive session of the Supervisory Board, there must be no apriors from the committee, whether it is local self-government, government or government of the AP, but that it can be, if it is sufficiently professional, and from the ranks, for example. employees. What's interesting to me is that one improvement, which I think is well compared to the previous bill that was in force, which is that we had so-called. The experts and that caused me such a little anger, because we had up to almost in this Assembly experts from one of the parties that ran the business, so we see how far they brought her, so when we had in this bill that we had members of the Supervisory Board from the ranks of experts without clearly defined school or work experience, it always caused me a little chill. It's a good thing it's out. A good thing is another, which I must commend, in relation to the previous applicable law, which is a commission that puts the directors above all local businesses, has one member who has been delegated to the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and that, above all at the local level, was one big problem when elected directors and the appointment of that commission, which appoints later directors and co-operation with the Permanent Conference of Cities, where you sometimes just waste time while they delegate their representative and all of this is a little bit of a brake procedure. That's why I think it's a good thing we won't have a situation like this anymore. What you said in the opening statement is that this law and with measures, with a certain criminal policy that you proposed, first of all, for the responsible people in the company, which is the director and it's the supervisory board, will have, let's say, a healing fact and that we won't have this kind of dubiosis as we've had so far. First of all, I want to say that transparency and the public in the work of public enterprises should lead to the public being able to influence, and that is a good thing that you saw in the bill that public enterprises' portals are obliged by public companies to set up their work plans and reports on the implementation of work plans and everything else, and that in such a way citizens can see, simply, that there is someone who ultimately cares about this dinar, which is given through local self-government, through government, for subsidies to public enterprises, and these are subsidies at local level. Now that we're talking about public enterprises, I simply immediately, and that's what you mentioned in the opening part of the presentation, the amendments and additions to the Law on private-public partnership. You mentioned that from the beginning of the application of the Law on private-public partnership we had 35 contracts, in total, on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you that I run a local government in Topoli and we had five ourselves, which means that we are over 10% and as the most successful local self-government in the application of the Law on Private Public Partnership we were invited by the permanent IMF delegation, where we were able to expose our experiences in the application of the existing Law. What I saw back then, I mean, I honestly was startled by certain things, as much as we as did the country, on the occasion that if I could be mild in words, we couldn't take advantage of all the advantages this Law offers. What I must say is, first of all, my surprise, and this is not going to you ministers to the soul, I heard this this morning, but Minister Rasim Ljajic and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, is that when the law was passed, we were obliged to set up a portal for the Agency for Business Registers and the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, which is once again to repeat the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, where all the private-public partnership contracts signed at the level of cities and municipalities throughout Serbia. So so far there have been 35 of them, they should have been made public and that all the other local self-governments who wanted to go that way, and I have to say that it's the fastest, most efficient way to solve a bunch of problems in local self-government. In this way you can effectively solve and manage the trash, and recycling center, and local transport, I don't know, street lighting management. So, a bunch of things that aren't just municipal activities, services, hoteling, etc., without any borrowing, but simply there wasn't enough power and obviously will to get one important law through. That's why, when we talk about public enterprises, you've got utility companies in a joint that generates losses. On the one hand, the municipalities subsidize them, and on the other hand, they have no interest in the whole story over, above all, the Law on private-public partnership and privates who will have a trusted communal activity in one smaller or larger form in the local self-government of the area, I say once again, first of all, waste management, transportation, lighting, etc., and I consider it a major failure. What the alterations themselves suggest and what might derail the whole process, we had restrictions on the application of the law. The first restriction was that we had to, regardless of whether the project was a million euros or whether the project was five, 10 or 15 years old, to publish a public call in an international magazine, and it is good that it was abolished and that it would only be possible to work on the portal, because it took a lot of time, or it was very expensive financially, especially for less local self-government, and that part is good and we absolutely support what the government proposed. On the other hand, I think it is very important that the Ministry of Finance has insight into every contract signed on a private-public partnership, because this contract can be long-term for 15 and 20 years, and therefore it is a good item in the amendments to this Law on Private-public Partnership that the Ministry of Finance gives its consent to all contracts concluded by local self-government, which are greater than 50m euros. When I spoke with the IMF delegation about the amendments to this law, they made it clear that, as local self-government, if we have more private-public partnership contracts, we will also have to run our accounting in local self-governments in a different way. These are the long-term obligations we have and this must be determined in one specific way. In any case, I ask you also to pay attention to a little coordination that exists between the resolution ministries, because we have a great interest, for example, in a local self-government for a project called – the introduction of intelligent lighting, where you can use energy saving lamps to go to large savings in local self-government. We're all talking about energy efficiency, but very little we all do together to apply it in the right way. What's another problem I have to point out? I don't think in most local self-government people want to go to a private-public partnership because it would reduce significantly local corruption. That's what I'm responsible for. Why am I telling you this? Because it's much easier for you to have small, small procurement every year about cleaning up wild dumps, you have small purchases to buy 500 or 600 lamps, but if you do it every year, you can do it through these small purchases and stuff, but if you go with a strong international firm, which comes, so does those services for you, and sign a contract for five or ten years, that story about any corruption has absolutely no place and can't stand. That is why I think it would be extremely important for the Ministry of Industry, along with other resolution ministries, to make and determine, if necessary, lectures and training with chambers of commerce, to engage. We were witnesses, me and you, meeting when the French prime minister comes with businessmen, when the Turkish prime minister comes. Their first question was the Law on private-public partnership, but here we are, as cities, as municipalities, very unprepared. This is a very important thing and a very effective way to solve problems, but I'm afraid there's very little hearing about it. I must now move on to amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. When some of the previous amendments to the law were made, I then asked the Honorable Minister Vujovic – why does the term "tax debt" not change then, as we say "tax debt"? I have to say at first that it's accepted and we have the term "tax debt". On the other hand, in tax debt, I ask you also Minister Sertic, local self-governments who have the legal right to regulate their original incomes are already in Serbia's territory, I think more than 50 local self-governments, that is information from the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, decided that for all businesses and for natural and legal persons who pay the principal debt by the end of the first quarter, this is 31 March this year, they already write off the total amount of interest. So, for all debts for taxes administered by local self-government. It's a property tax and everything. Over 60 local self-governments in Serbia brought this. This is now a good step, first of all, I have to say, for the great pain that Serbian citizens have, and that's the gun tax, I have to mention here, which, by these amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, will be allowed to these people, be careful, since 1998, when Seselj introduced two more taxes on a mobile phone and that gun tax, on a mobile phone has been lifted long ago, but that gun tax still exists today... People get huge sums, and they've registered one gun at home, and now they have to pay a hundred or 150 thousand dinars of debt, and it's over 50% interest. I have to say, and you should be undermining it, a good way to try to settle those old debts. When we talk about amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, unfortunately, there is no Minister Vujovic here, but I have asked three times a parliamentary question regarding the backlog of farmers' health insurance debts. This is Minister Lonchar. This is a very important topic. Look, it's billions of dinars. In my municipality alone, debt for health and pension insurance is a billion and 800 million dinars, in Arangelovac it is over two billion, in Kragujevac over three billion. These are serious sums. You know what else is the problem? Tax administration, she's got completely lagging software where, for example, for health insurance for farmers, they run the people who died 15 years ago. I brought these examples myself. Believe me, in the rural area, a man died 15 years ago, and today a health insurance solution comes to him, and today he's on interest. These are things that must be changed by the honourable ministers. The tax administration must be modernised and it must be known how these people can be helped. These are the things that matter and I just have to mention. What is also important about the Law on Zelizara Smederevo, you have made all of this clear, and I as a MP and party to which I belong to the NS will support, with both hands, a strategic enterprise that must resolve the issue of property. This must be done, it must be clearly defined what the government will be talking to tomorrow with a potential investor in Jelizara Smederevo, because there are 5,000 people in that hardware store, tens of thousands of other cooperatives tied to the company, and this must be decided in a clear way that people know what capital they have and what property they have. Please, this is what I asked you on the board this morning, that you simply have coordination, because we have a problem across Serbia, especially in the forest where I come from, that the companies bought by bankruptcy investors, which are agricultural combinations, are now having an asset problem because they bought from the bankruptcy of a company that had hundreds of acres to use local self-government decisions from the 70s. Unfortunately, the Law on State Land, which we have brought to the National Assembly, has been conducted since November of last year as state land and local self-government are required to write it down and determine that so-called. State land distribution program. Now we're investors who we've barely asked to get into a very awkward situation that we have to justify what we've brought. One condition was when they were shopping.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50304	Time to Mr. Jovanovic. Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50305	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the area of economy and health that are on the agenda today. I will talk about the Law on Public Enterprises, and my colleagues will look back on some of the remaining laws that were discussed today by Ministers Sertic and Loncar. The current government of the Republic of Serbia launched last year fiscal consolidation processes for business reforms and the transformation of society, which I find impossible to complete without solving public enterprises' problems. Public enterprises in Serbia are unfortunately the generator of huge losses and this is not the only problem we have today with public enterprises. That's why they represent a great ballast for this generation, but I'd say also because of these accumulated debts from the past and some future generations. Therefore, I think that solving the problem of public enterprises is something that is imperative, something that is urgent to implement in action, and I would say that it is not so difficult to conclude, given that it calls for and profession, firstly the Fiscal Council, the IMF and the World Bank, but it is certainly the most important that there is finally a political will to address this very unpleasant problem and I would say an unexcessively politically popular problem finally. The first step towards solving the accumulated problems in public enterprises is to create a basis, i.e. creating a good legal basis for finally starting a quality business of public enterprises, i.e. creating a rational, efficient and profitable system. Of course, the last time we're talking about a profitable system is something that's impossible to do overnight, I'd say it's probably impossible for some businesses to do in the middle term. In the first place, I think of railways, but it is certainly possible for each of these companies to make them operate as rationally and as efficient as possible. The current legal framework has proved to be of insufficient quality and therefore it was necessary to approach changes and additions to the law still in force. The amendments and additions are so great that based on the unique methodological rules, it was mandatory to make a new law, and we today have this legislative proposal ahead of us, which has been assessed in public as significantly better than the previous one. I don't think there's really any dispute here, even in that part of the public that has certain reserves according to certain solutions in this law, which the minister also spoke of in the opening part of his presentation. He was made in line with the national fight, the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Action Plan for its implementation, which was also highlighted by the Anti-Corruption Agency. It was done in co-operation with the PKS, the IMF and the World Bank, but also with respect to objections, which came from independent bodies. When I say respect, it does not mean that all objections have been adopted, but all objections with respect have been accepted and considered. Some of them have been adopted, those whom the proposer thought could be adopted at this time. You said at the end of last year when this law was presented to the public, I will quote -- that the government will have more stringent control over the business of public enterprises next year, because it is interested in introducing order in these companies. If you'll excuse me, I would rely on it and say that everyone, and we are thinking in the medium term, and I would say in the long run, is simply going to have to reach for this solution, because this situation that we are currently in, in which we are brought, is unsustainable. The problem with public enterprises is not a problem since yesterday, even less the problem that occurred during this government, I would say that this is a problem which has been growing cumulatively in the last quarter of the century with some better and worse periods, but certainly these most negative effects have occurred in the last six, seven years, approximately since the start of the economic crisis, i.e. since 2008. It is therefore clear that we need a system solution to solve such a serious problem and a problem that has lasted for decades and that it is impossible to solve such serious problems with any particular solutions, because they simply do not have the capacity to produce results. The Law on Public Enterprises is just one of the necessary steps on the road and it certainly requires upgrades. In the first place, I mean the adoption of quality sublegal acts within the prescribed time limit. When I say so, I mean both announced and aligned with the IMF strengthening the capacity of one part of the Ministry of Economy to deal with the control of public enterprises and the full application of this law to its last letter. Only in that case can we hope that our public enterprises will be on the path of recovery and that there will be at least the next few years on that road, I think that you said in the next three to five years it's some real deadline for the largest number of public enterprises to heal, that at least take them on the right path. I'm saying, I'm not sure that even in that time, some of them will be able to be profitable, but at least be rational and efficient. This is the most important step, and this is a systemic solution when it comes to public enterprises, but we are true to the will of the process of solving public enterprises' problems in one indirect way, we have begun yet to pass a new Public Procurement Act, which, according to the Fiscal Council estimates, has already brought significant savings in the first year. Also last year's suspension and the granting of guarantees for public enterprises, borrowing for current business is something that has contributed to the introduction of order into public enterprises in Serbia. It also started with the reform of the largest systems, I think first of all of the EPS, "The Railway" and "Serbiagas". It is also a reduction in the indifference of the economy which is largely generated by public enterprises through the adoption of the Payment deadlines Act, etc. So, the reform of public enterprises has been at stake for several years, which is also witnessed by their better performances from last year. You mentioned that you have some data, we don't have complete data for 2015 yet, but I think there are roughly some 11 months of data that say that the revenues of public enterprises were not so much larger than the plan, but in any case higher than the plan, but the costs were, I would say, significantly reduced compared to what was planned. Of course, it is certainly the most important step in this business that lies ahead of us, which is to pass this law. As you said, the provisions of the law on public enterprises refer to 728 public enterprises, of which 37 republican and 691 are public enterprises located at the AP level, i.e. the level of units of local self-government. According to the 2014 Fiscal Council analysis in these companies that employ around 130,000 people, operational indicators are at a very low level. Also, according to this same analysis, these companies suffer from internal inefficiencies, suffering from ongoing indifference and growing debt. This is something that is a serious problem, I would say, and a special concern for the state because it threatens to undo the effects that we have achieved by fiscal consolidation measures, which were mainly directed at the cost side of the budget. Therefore, all the problems listed cannot be solved without stricter control of the state over public enterprises, without professionalising in governance that involves the introduction of strategies, and operational and financial strategies of business, as well as the development of an integrated performance management system and, I would say, setting and afterwards achieving measurable objectives, i.e. key business indicators. In addition, I think it is necessary to work towards reducing the irrationality that is very expressed in public enterprises and certainly continue the fight against corruption, which is already under way in public enterprises. Another, I think, very important thing when it comes to public enterprises is that I really don't think it should be more, as it seems to me, unfortunately too often was the case in the past that public enterprises perform social functions in society, because it seems to me, that only burdens me, not only seems to me but rather certain, only the burden of their non-market business is evenly distributed to rich and poor, which is certain I am, you will all agree, something that is wrong and something that is certainly not just. So, in the future, we must, and I believe that we will do so, to do everything in our power to make social policy, which is something that the SDPS supports, and I believe this government, too, runs a state, or government, and not public enterprises, and that really social measures only apply to those endangered categories of people who need any kind of social assistance. In that sense, I would give an example that, I think, shows quite illustratively what the difference in the effects between untagged social aid measures is, by the way, when we have a low price that is non-economical and some targeted measures that only guess, under the quote again, those who need that help. In this context, I would mention the energy-protected customer programme that has just channelled certain funds towards those who have been difficult to bear an increase in electricity prices, which for years is already at a level that is far below the economic, or below the market, and on the other hand has not affected all the groups of the population, or has not been targeted at those who are rich who can also bear the price of electricity that is economic. There's one more thing I'd like to say about this, conditionally speaking to the general story. You won't mind me saying, I'm probably going to talk a little less about concrete changes in this law, but you've talked a lot more about it, too, and I believe most colleagues will talk extensively about what's changing this law. I think it's important to understand what the general picture is and why it's important to change this law, not just to tax it, although it's important what changes everything in it. One phenomenon I would also mention, and I think you spoke about in public in the previous period, it is related to what the public most often says and understands the problems that exist in public enterprises at the republican level, which I must admit logically and naturally, given the financial, or negative financial implications that these companies are causing. On the other hand, in this context it may sound paradoxical, it will be much easier to introduce order into public enterprises at the republican level because it is far easier to control them and because there are far stronger capacities to control public enterprises at the level of the Republic than is the case at the level of local self-government. So I think it is extremely important to start with the application of this law as soon as possible, given that a good number of the provisions of this law apply precisely to the introduction of order and when public enterprises are at local level, which was not the case before, because they seem to have had a little too much freedom and in that sense I welcome that this law comes before us before the elections. I think it's terribly important because this is one of the laws that couldn't wait three months. I'm not saying that some other laws are less important or irrelevant, but I think this is one of the crucial laws at this time for the RS and one of the key laws for the implementation of the fiscal consolidation programme because it would be really bad if we were to undo all the effects of the great sacrifice submitted by the citizens of RS by, I say, conditionally agreeing to a reduction in wages and pensions, which is why we started this difficult fiscal consolidation process. It would be very bad if public enterprises had eaten their inefficient business, under the allegations, and the savings we have made with these measures. So, public enterprises seem to me to focus in 2016 and in the coming years, and here we will show the real strength of this fiscal consolidation programme. As the most important long-term goal of adopting this law, I would say that the transformation of public enterprises from the economic or economic problem generators, as you will, into a future source of growth in the price of economy. The economic rules applicable to other companies must finally begin to apply to both public enterprises and cannot be largely protected from the market and mostly to operate in a non-market way in a different way. We want to significantly increase the quality of the business of public enterprises through the proposed amendments to the law and I will only list some of them. You've explained it very closely, so I'm not going to get into it again, but I'd like to point out some of them as who they are to me, it seems to me, that they're the most important or at least that's how I've experienced them. In the first place, I think it is important to introduce strategic medium- and long-term planning that cannot be changed except in special cases that are very clearly stated in the law and we are doing so through a more realistic planning of business indicators, through better reporting and through creating a clearer picture of the state of public enterprises. The next very important thing is to improve corporate governance, which involves introducing new business models, which involves better control by the state, improving corporate responsibility and security in business, but also potential sanctioning in case of disrespect and responsibility passed on to someone. Also, the very important thing is, which has not been present at this stage before, especially at the level of public enterprises in local self-government, is transparency in the work which is viewed in the reporting obligation and in the obligation to respect the very strict deadlines in which it must be reported, but also informing the public within the deadlines provided when some information is relevant to the public. The next thing is to increase the responsibility and in the work of depoliticalising public enterprises through precision and tightening of conditions for selecting and selecting members of the Supervisory Board, Director, Executive Directors, setting up a V.D. The director, through the criteria for their resolution, until the end of the day is also very important, and this is mentioned by the minister, it is a criminal policy for failing to comply with the law of prescribed obligations. The next very important thing is to define the control role of the state more clearly, and I would say that it is something that is also the key, except for the professionalization of what this law adopts. I mean, first of all, the introduction of a system to prevent abuse and sanction them. I hope that in the future we will not have more cases, which unfortunately we have had in the past very often, which is that we have had an uncontrollable establishment of public enterprises at the local level, that we have had the transfer of all employees of public enterprises from one company to another, and leaving debts in other businesses, again I think of public enterprises at the local level. So, there must be order in the business of public enterprises at all levels, I say – it is probably more characterised by problems in terms of financial implications for their poor business, but it is certainly a very serious problem and public enterprises at local level. Finally, of course, improving the quality of services by trusting in the performance of the general interest through public private partnership and concessions. Finally, I would like to say that these changes to the law represent a kind of institutional framework to improve the financial performance of public enterprises, which should make them attractive for some future full or partial privatisation for a public-private partnership or, in the end, for their appearance on the free market and participation in a free competition. They also ensure that the state finally withdraws from public enterprises in terms of professionalisation, i.e. in terms of governance of public enterprises, but at the same time retains its control role, i.e. to preserve the interests of the state, but also the interests of the citizens, through the preservation, i.e. mechanisms for the control of the business of public enterprises and the protection of their property. So, once again, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all the laws that are on the agenda today and I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50306	Thank you, Dr. Bauer. The word has the president of the parliamentary group, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, one minister is present in this part of the debate, and since there is no Minister Loncar, then it is difficult for me to talk about the proposals of the two laws he has today and who came to the Assembly for an emergency procedure Saturday afternoon, and if I understood in no way the importance and urgency of these laws being passed by an urgent procedure, thus disabling any, above all, expert, debate. I cannot be competent for two such important laws relating to the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I am very concerned about how we pass these two important laws and the fact that none of the professional public could say a single word in the previous day and a half regarding these two laws. I just hope the consequences of some of the solutions in these laws won't be tragic, but good. Let's start with these other laws that are on the agenda, and whose consequences can also be tragic because they are brought by an incompetent government that has failed for four years to solve any of the only problems in the areas we're talking about today. We keep hearing this story for four years that someone else did it, and they couldn't do anything. In fact, the Law on Public Enterprises was adopted in 2013 and it was announced that it would start to address a number of problems, how it would increase labour efficiency, quality, professional administration, corporation, transparency, and I don't know what. Here, today, when we were listening to the minister explain the bill on public enterprises, the new law again, we hear the maltenes the same story, how this law will solve all these problems that existed, we agree, and there are long years, but there is a question of what was done in these three years, that at least something would be settled in public enterprises and whether this new law was needed, in a situation where this old man was not implemented? He spoke a lot about how now the election of directors will be more transparent, more quality, as criteria are tightened. We have the fact that there is a commission of government, a commission at AP levels and local self-government, but the previous law prescribed that a competition for all public enterprises should be announced by 30 June 2013. I'm asking you, Minister, how many public enterprises have this competition been published and implemented, and how many V.D.s do we have? What's the status? Contrary to this law, for years and years we had no choice but to have a V.D. State, the whole country is in V.D. the state, and unfortunately this public sector. I found it very interesting, Minister, that you here said that when this law came, when it was finally passed, whether or not the directors of public enterprises could be party officials. You said that even under the current law, it wasn't possible. I ask you, we here have in Parliament two members of the directors of public enterprises and the president of the party, or vice president of one party, so how is that possible if the previous law prohibited it? Now you're offering us this frozen farce. You have frozen life in Serbia, not party functions that are now reportedly frozen. You speak of how you have now introduced, prescribed conditions for selecting board members. I welcome this and I would like to see it applied, because what we had in practice is to say, it's a great honor for everyone in knowledge and skill, but let's say the chairman of the Supervisory Board "Apothecary Kragujevac" instead of a specialist doctor becomes an expert in air conditioning and heating. Is that in accordance with this law? No, but it's consistent with SNS policy and that's the problem. You've been ruining this country for three, four years, constantly blaming someone else and some other time and other circumstances, so you dare say here – Europe is in recession, and we're not. How can you say that? Can you find five countries in Europe that have negative GDP growth in 2015, in the EU? How much GDP is in the surrounding countries? It's bigger everywhere than in Serbia, we're at the bottom of the region, you know it well. Now you're talking about how the government is going to control on the basis of a plan and a programme of public enterprises' work and that it's going to bring some instructions and I don't know what. I'm interested now, let's say, because when we asked those questions, we got the answer -- and it has nothing to do with the government, let's say the work "Srbigas". "Srbigas", basic activity is gas distribution, does not produce much, we do not have much in Serbia. For example, the price of gas in the last year and a half is lower by 50, 60% because the price of oil has dropped by over 70%. And what happens to the price of gas paid by citizens? The price has been reduced by 23%, and in cases where heating is paid, remote heating over heat in Serbia has not changed by a single percentage, there have been even some announcements that it will increase, so it has dropped, because somehow it could not explain why it would increase the price of district heating where the basic raw gas was in the same week when the gas price had to fall by 9%, at the end of September last year. What will the government do now? Will it at least make it easier for the citizens in one piece? You've increased all taxes, you've introduced electricity excises, electricity has become a luxury in your mandate. When the price of gas falls by 60%, the government shuts up, public companies shut up, and citizens pay the same price. You will then come here with some paper and say – look now, business has improved I don’t know how much. Well, of course it's fixed. If you pay three times the raw materials you spend, of course you will have positive business conditions. But what's in it for citizens? The Law on Public Enterprises remains unclear as to the state of v.d. Director. He is now talking about how it can last for up to a year, and then the second attitude in that article says – one person can be chosen at most twice. What does that mean? Two times a year, or one year one, and the other, and then they change like that, rotate? You deliberately left these things unclear and for that reason and many other reasons we will not support this law. Other laws, also important, that came here after an emergency procedure Saturday afternoon, without the possibility of any public debate, to say and to understand what was going on, are the sixth amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act. For the sixth time in the term of office of this ruling majority, the law is being amended. There's obviously the government's lurking, hitting walls in the dark, doesn't know where to go and how to implement tax administration reform, to enable effective tax collection and transparency in work. Now you're taking steps backwards. The first amendment of the Tax Procedure Act and the administration abolishes the obligation of quarterly publication of the list of the largest taxpayers in Serbia. It is abolished, leaving the possibility that twice a year or half a year the debt list can be published. Who do you want to save? What do you want to hide from Serbian citizens? Why do you end these difficult progress in the transparency of work? All the things you suggest go to the benefit of those who abuse the state, who don't pay taxes on time. They are now allowed to reprogram the debt, to pay it for five years instead of two years, to write off their interest during that time. So, you systematically here discourage people to respect the state, to reconcile their obligations to the state, and this law is just a continuation of such a policy. The only thing I have to admit here is that you're consistent. The law on public private partnership is obviously intended to change something overnight, so that some investor, some brother, friend, I don't know who I'm meeting either. You in Article 3 of that law allow other than concession, say on land obtained for the use of concessions, to do some other things on that land that have nothing to do with basic work. So, let's say, if you get a road concession, you build pumps along that road, hotels, I don't know what's left of the concessionaries. So he'll build without a competition, without paying the state what the state needs to get, some infrastructure for himself, and when the concession is over, he'll return what he used as a concession, but these other facilities will remain. Who did you prepare this law for, Mr. Minister? For whom this lex specialis is prepared, which is called the Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel “Smederevo” d.o.o. Brown? Why was this law needed? I absolutely couldn't figure it out from your exposure. That "The Iron" is in trouble, we know that. It's not a problem for a year or two. And you were talking about the question of the Irons, its cost-effectiveness and everything else since the time of old Yugoslavia. And, depending on how the price of steel was moving through history, this "elevator" had some picks, when it could be said to be profitable, to do business with profit. Now, unfortunately, the situation is such that it is impossible in these conditions to expect it to operate with profit. But what do you want to do? Tell us, how much land is this, what do you want to add to sweetening this Ironworks offer for some potential buyer you think you found? We listened here a year and a half ago, a year ago -- a secure deal with "Esmark" agreed, now things are about to start, that incompetent government has driven the previous owners away, and now we're going to come and save "The Iron." So, what happened from that procedure? Nothing. We got the management of "The Iron" by a foreign partner under a secret contract. By a contract that I assume you, not out of your pocket, paid fines under the law on the availability of information, because you didn't want to publish that contract. What kind of respect for the law, transparency and quality are we talking about here? This law was obviously written for a future buyer who was not satisfied with the offer the Serbian state made a year ago, so now something had to be added. I ask you openly, say here for the citizens of Serbia, what are you planning to add, how many acres of land and what land is that? Because you're saying that no property issues have been resolved over the land and "Stredera" facilities for years back. I don't know how it's possible, that company's been private for almost 10 years. Since 2002/2003. By 2012, it was a private company. I believe, since you're glorifying private property here, that private man knew very well what he had in mind and took care of it all. When he decided to sell "The Iron" back to the state, he knew what he was selling, and I believe the state knew what he was buying. Why are you bringing this law to us now? This whole session, I say, hides something in it, something you don't want to know, something you don't want to talk about. I invite you to answer some of these questions, in line with what you've been saying here about the declared bias of the quality of work. We will try, and in principle we will discuss this little time we have, and also in the debate in particular, to get answers and try to convince you to change some things, because we think that solutions are totally unacceptable and that they don't lead us to progress, towards improvement. Our opinion, the opinion of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, is that these laws should not be accepted, that these are pre-election laws, laws to be discussed in the next two months, that they will bring in some investors, and that ultimately there will be nothing, either these investors, or economic development, or a better life. None of this will make Serbian citizens feel, but will listen to empty stories as they have been listening for four years. They'll hear someone guilty before, at some other time, at another age, and no ideas or real shift will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50308	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50309	I really don't think that in a debate like this, we're going to have any improvement in neither our business environment nor our investment attraction, or the employment of new people, when we're listening to these comments, we're going to get out of all the mosaics of detail, we're going to get one thing out of it, and you're going to make a general problem out of it. It's simple, everything you said or most of the things you said -- either you read it wrong or you got it wrong. I'll just try a few details to distract you. You said public enterprises - a completely unclear member of the law that defines the number of months, i.e. period of duration v.d. states. Well, in your law it was just so undefined, it was simply so described that we could trade a man for five years every six months every six months. Now it's defined very clearly and precisely. First, da v.d. The condition can only last a year, and only for one person. So, you can't take a break for three days and the same man again that... Yeah, that's a big change. You're talking about a public-private partnership. Well, yes, we want to look up to Switzerland, to France, to Norway, to the United States, to have a large number of our investments here on the agenda and opportunities to provide through a public-private partnership the means to develop and provide the best possible conditions and services for our citizens and by these models we have made and positioned our law. You are talking about “The Irons. ” Yes, I'm very proud to be a member of the government and parliamentary majority who made sure that day-to-day ironworks are closed in Europe, when you have a huge problem in the world, 5,000 workers receive salaries in the regular work and everyone is employed and everyone has their own way of working and knows why they work. We're the only ones who negotiate with one of the biggest companies in the world who has an interest in coming, hiring, expanding their production and creating more jobs. It's a great success of this government, and we haven't retreated and cried and said -- here, now we're going to give money out of the budget to buy social peace the way you did 15 years ago, with more than 500 million euros invested in restructuring companies that have functioned unprofitable all the time, no job has been done until the end in the way that these companies should be pulled out of total chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50310	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go, Mrs. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50311	I would like to point out that we will, of course, support the set of laws that lies ahead of us, but that I will specifically refer to the Law on Public Enterprises. Of course, you all know that at the head of one of the most successful public enterprises, Post office of Serbia is our president of the parliamentary group and party president Mr. Milan Krkobic. When we look at this law that lies ahead of us, I must say that, of course, I have no doubt at all about the expertise of the people who worked on it, with respect for all the standards that were necessary, but I think at this point we already have a bunch of wise men and some cybers on the side who are already looking for what our speciality is Serbian, which is a hole in the law. I think it's actually the general problem of this country, which we all try to make whatever law we pass, however good it is, to find that something that we might pass. But, looking at the law, in it I recognize exactly what our President Milan Krkobic insists on, and that is what he called order, work, result and responsibility. I think that now, by passing a law like this, by giving freedom to the director of the company that I am in charge, by choosing my own executive directors, by not having his hands tied to the executive board, which is being set up in one way or another, that we are simply coming to the conclusion that the corporate directors can actually run the company the way they think, in accordance with their abilities and that at the end of the government are responding, of course, to their result for what they did. We have the Post Office of Serbia, which is a public company, which operates entirely on market terms, which does not receive any funding from the budget, which in the last few years has managed to produce great financial results, to gain more than three times, and that, on the other hand, at the head of the company there is indeed a man who is also a politically significant political figure on our political scene, the party president, which has not diminished his expertise, nor his knowledge, nor his quality. I have to admit, if we were to get the film back together now, the presidents of all the parties in the Assembly, so I don't remember ever being led by a public firm by a non-partisan person. They were exceptions that confirmed the rule, but generally they were, and I'm not against it, considering that we're really instituting responsibility. We had our president in charge of a company this time, and indeed the PUPS, as a party, was behind it. Can we give someone of quality? If it's okay, it's okay, we got a score, if it's not -- please, put it away. On the other hand, perhaps it is also a case of a rule-affirming exception. We'll get back to the law. I think that we in PUPS support both the competitions and the conditions that are now scheduled for the selection of directors and members of the Supervisory Board. Of course it is necessary for a public company to be run by people who know the essence of these companies, to know what these companies are dealing with, and of course they can make a greater contribution. I'd just like to look back, I think it's great to finally make a cut of the company and know exactly what it is. My colleagues spoke very carefully before me. We all read the law. It is known exactly how many public republican enterprises there are, how much it is per bar, but it is necessary to make an accurate intersection and see what it is from public enterprises that can really do business and what it is that is simply the ballast of this society. That public enterprises are the generators of a really difficult situation where we are, it's not wisdom, we all felt it. I think we had a problem here, we were already talking about this social policy that was being run through public enterprises, I mean, we can't rule out, not justifying anyone, that this country was really in situations where it might have been necessary and in this way a little help, but now we're going to enter the games and there's no more sentimentality. So only real players can survive on this market. Whoever can run the race should run, and whoever can't, back off, do something else that he knows how to do. I would also like to mention that, say, the Post Office of Serbia has 15,000 people, where everyone is taken care of, where it has managed to make its own resources, its own human resources, its new organisation, to find a job for all that surplus that exists as well as in all the environments. So, we don't have any public enterprises, we don't have anything where we don't have extra people, but we just did, or our president managed to find jobs for all these people and essentials, and it is that we all have to look for work together. No one's gonna bring a job to our plate. It was necessary to pass one of these laws, it is necessary to organise companies now under this new principle of responsibility and supervisory board and directors. Well, it's a good thing there aren't no deputies, so we don't have a change right now, and I'm gonna do one thing today, and I'm gonna sign something, and you're gonna sign something. So we have a man who will be chosen by competition, and he will absolutely have to bear responsibility for what he's doing, but he will also have the freedom to have that job and that company, that public enterprise run in the way he thinks. So, I'm not going to look back on other laws. I think it's actually good that we brought them. This public private partnership is something we really missed. There are a bunch of firms that need additional funding, which the state doesn't have, which we need for the functioning of the state. I will point out once again that the PUPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will, of course, support all the laws that are in front of us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50312	Thank you. The president of the parliamentary group, National MP Natasa Vukkovic, has the word. Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, listening to ministers here today, and in particular Minister Sertic, I have a question – what would this government do if there was no future time. We're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna departize public enterprises, we're gonna create conditions for public-private partnerships, we're gonna do... We've been listening to it all the same way for four years. So now, after four years, it would be much more appropriate to listen to the past. So we did this, we did that, we professionalized public enterprises, we created a way for new investments, for new public-private partnerships, so that would be some normal and expected government behavior today after four years. I can understand that there were two governments, but the same content, the same composition, more or less, the same coalition has been in power since 2012. Here we are talking today, first of all, very important to say for the citizens, we have a session today scheduled for Monday with 14 agenda points. Rarely having relationships between them and some similarities on the subject, issues that he's dealing with. It's an emergency. Some laws arrived in the congregation only on Saturday afternoon, so to speak, fifteen, twenty minutes before the assembly was sent to the MPs. And now, of course, the citizens who are watching this session and who are in the interest of finding out, being informed, that's their right, how these laws will affect their lives and their work, they are now listening alternately to our talk about both public enterprises and public health and protection against infectious diseases and metrology. We have dealt less with these international agreements whose ratification is also foreseen in this agenda. So it makes it impossible for citizens to exercise their right, to be well informed of what the National Assembly is doing. This debate, which will last today from 14 points of the agenda, is not good. It is not good the way the government works, the way the Assembly works and the way we all treat Serbian citizens together. Of course, it is neither good for the government's relationship, or for the majority and opposition, because it wants to prevent the opposition from preparing themselves in good time and quality for these laws. Of course, the government has a much larger professional apparatus and it is always an advantage on its part. However, we have worked very hard this weekend and we have submitted more than 150 amendments to all these laws. Of course, we're going to vote against all these laws, because we don't think these are good laws. What we can expect, and I think it's important for the citizens to say, is that in the next few weeks or two, up to the expected elections for the National Assembly, we can expect each ministry to now try very quickly to complete all of these draft laws on which it worked. Apparently quite slowly over the next few months, and now they're going to insert them into the Assembly to quickly, by emergency procedure, with as little eye control as possible, these laws are now passing. Here, today we are talking about public enterprises and all these other points of the agenda. Given that for some points we had no objective opportunity to analyse some of the laws with our experts, we had to resort even to the practice of what are called protest amendments, which we do not like as a practice, but this is the answer to one practice of bad, parliamentary practice, to get one group of laws overnight and immediately open a debate about it. I would have to say one more thing, Mr. Chairman, I think it is up to you to take a little care of it, and the next time the ministers come to the Assembly to present their laws to the representatives of the citizens and citizens who are watching us, it would be good for their presentation of the laws that they propose to do a little bit, to contribute to the construction of the Parliament's dignity by making these presentations well prepared, to help MPs, but first and foremost to citizens to follow them well, to understand what it is all about. I don't mean Minister Sertic, he's got to say, he's very good at presenting his laws, which unfortunately, as a matter of fact, are not good for us, but we'll talk about that now. So now I'm going to talk about the Law on Public Enterprises. Who remembers in 2013 we adopted this Law on Public Enterprises, it was the law, too, of these majority, only the second prime minister. It was then said that it was a historic law on public enterprises, which would lead to professionalisation, depoliticalisation, departementisation, etc. I found in my archive several of our opposition speeches from that session of the National Assembly. Believe me, almost 80% can be re-applied today, especially in that part of the departementisation, or depolitisation of public enterprises. What is our main question – why the Government did not comply with the provisions of the Law itself in 2013. You know, Minister, you can no longer blame us today for the state of affairs in public enterprises, when four years have given you the opportunity to be there personally, but we are counting on this coalition to have some work programme since 2012, so you have done nothing to improve the situation in public enterprises. That's what's the key question for us. The government had an obligation under the law to conduct competitions for the selection of directors by 30 June 2013. Why didn't she do it? We knew you wouldn't do it, and then we told you. We don't expect you to do it. That, of course, turned out to be true. And, we say now, this law will not lead to the separation, nor the professionalisation of governance in public enterprises, and we will see each other after the new elections, with perhaps a new composition of the government, and you will see that nothing will change. So, there are vague intentions of this law and question the full effects of this new law. What concerns us further – why is this law passed, such an important law, without public debate? I now see in the explanation the Ministry has become an argument that it just felt there was no need to hold a public debate. Here, some conclusion was December 24th. Now look at this, you're still giving us an explanation – December 30th, so I repeat the date, I stress, on December 30th 2015, the Ministry presented the draft of this law to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I stress the date, we all know the mood, especially working December 30th in Serbia. So I don't believe it was some very fruitful meeting, and it was obvious that the Ministry was working on speed and that it didn't want to hear all those important actors, all those interested parties, who would have anything to say on a bill like this. What the minister said today confirms what I just said was that this bill should correct the bad solutions of the previous law, i.e. indeterminateness, etc. We confirm that, but with this bill, it will not change anything in particular, and it is confirmed that in 2013 we had the right when we criticised the previous law. That's how it's gonna be confirmed now. Now, let me specifically say something about some key provisions of this law. First of all, it seems to us that the very vague and inconclusive definition of activity is of general interest, as it is defined by Article 2. We find a very worrying provision, as one very non-transparent, which creates the possibility of major politicisation, i.e. political decision-making, on the possibility of investing capital and establishing other enterprises that are not engaged in the activity of general interest. We don't understand what the government's intention is, but it doesn't seem to have much of a foundation. They are very vague, insufficient and inextricable provisions that should lead to the deparisation of transparency and professionalisation. I have to refer specifically to certain members, first of all, to the criteria necessary for the selection of directors. First of all, it is required, said in 2013, to require higher education in basic studies, exclusively. It is not clear what it means that the candidate must have three years of work experience in business related to public enterprises. How it determines what business is related to the business of a company. The next criterion is that the candidate must know the area of operational management. How does it prove that he knows the area of corporate governance? He must also have a working experience in organising work and doing business. A highly arbitrary provision, which does not give any assurance that professionalisation and the selection of the best staff in the selection of directors of public enterprises will actually be seriously approached. Of course, everything will be specified to you by the criteria, but I have also read this current criterion regulation and you will agree that given the requirements it further specifies, and given that a selection commission is drawn up, such a commission is unable to assess these criteria. So this is about very specific things. Major progress is considered by being given to the Director to elect the Executive Director, i.e. by means of a practical appointment. It's true that some of the criteria here are precise. We don't think that's the best solution, so it'd be better if there was some correlation with the board of directors. Also, with the Supervisory Board, it is almost a grotesque provision that is said to be the president and members of the supervisory board of public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, appoints the Government for a period of four years, one of which is a member of the Supervisory Board of Staff, and one member must be an independent member of the Supervisory Board. On what independent? It's such a grotesque provision that it simply raises the question of whether it should be further commented. And, of course, there is one provision that has shown itself very badly in practice, and the future will show, which is a member of the 58th distribution of profits, where the public undertaking and the capital company are obliged to pay part of the profits achieved in the budget of the Republic of Serbia according to the final account for the previous year, and the amount and time limit for the payment of profits is determined by the law, i.e. the decision on the budget for the following year. This introduces a very high degree of unpredictability in the work of each public enterprise, because the public enterprise will never know how it will be able to channel its profits, in which direction, because at the end of each year it can wait for it, surprise the decision on the budget instead of investing in infrastructure development, etc., thus it will be impossible to fully achieve its plan. There are other provisions. Let's say, about this business strategy plan. For example, a public company needs this plan of a business strategy to define the means, i.e. the way it will provide assistance, organise sports activities, propaganda, representations, etc., which is very interesting why sports activities are being singled out as special activities. It seems more important to us that there is a different way of predicting the separation for help and the community either local, or the wider community. So what we want to emphasize when we talk about this law, it is that we do not expect this law to be passed in any way by public enterprises to make it politically less addictive, more professional, towards the success of a targeted and targeted, companies and corporations, but rather to keep what is now their characteristic, and that it is actually a party prey in which after the election, influences or parts are actually distributed. And what is of course very important, regardless of the provisions and regulations that exist today on the maximum number of public sector employees, public enterprises are soft for party employment and we all know that and all citizens of Serbia know that, in every municipality, in every city, and of course, at the level of the Republic. We also talked about this when it came to the budget that around 130m euros in the budget were intended to conclude various contracts on work, on temporary jobs, etc., which actually allowed party employment for some 20 to 30 000 people, and thus, of course, is being disrupted and every story about building an efficient administration, i.e. trying to limit the impact of the state in the economy to be a real market economy. I will speak briefly only of this proposal for a law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the company for the production and processing of steel "Gelezara" Smederevo. This law is completely unclear to us. It is very interesting that this law arrived in the congregation at nearly 16:30 a.m. on Saturday. So, something that was obviously in the government's blueprint that day. This bill is so formulated that it constitutes a legal basis for the acquisition of property rights, but nowhere is it specified which of its properties. He told us that we do not know what the property of Željzara Smederevo is, which is completely surprising to us, since Željzara Smederevo was the subject of a legal deal with US Steel, when US Steel bought it in privatisation, and even after the Serbian government bought it from US Steel. Is it possible that today we really have such an explanation? We are in our own time, DS while she was in government, she passed a Law on Public Property, which was otherwise intended to prevent exactly that sort of thing. You see, the bill provides for all public enterprises, the founder of the Republic of Serbia, to cease enrolling rights on catastran plots, on which only the facilities of Jelizara are located. And there is nowhere to be reported data that will reflect on the people of Smederev, who have stopped it, what consequences are precisely for the general interest, because public enterprises are carrying out activities of general interest, we are talking about it under the point of one of these agendas. There are many other problems here, it is very interesting for us to see if the state, the defence of the Republic of Serbia, participated in this proposal, as a state body that protects the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, but also has an advisory function, and we are interested in his opinion on this bill. I will not talk about public private partnership, my colleagues, public health, and if the minister is not here, the public debate on this law has been held. It seems to have been very sadistic and it's something that's a good practice. The ministry has even very detailedly explained the content of the public debate so much that even in some moments it is a grotesque explanation of all the elements that led the Ministry to accept or reject any proposal in the public debate. In whether the term "public health" or "national health" will be maintained, the ministry has given a very detailed, even English linguistic evaluation of the terms, which is very good and we support it, but we would like to ask the Ministry to also use the Serbian language, and to give it to us in the light of the law, takes care of the spelling of the Serbian language, and that the Ministry is not the bearer of the activity and the public debate on this bill. My colleagues will discuss other proposed laws in a further debate. Our amendments to these laws are numerous, we will vote against all these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50314	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50315	I will only comment on a few of your remarks that I think are very important for the sake of clarification, not only here in Parliament but also for the citizens of our country. You said that one member of the law on public enterprises is a grotesque member in which we define an independent member of the Supervisory Board. Isn't that a positive thing for you if we say that someone should be independent of not being able to be a member of the staff if it can't be from the founder's order, whether it's a municipality, a republic or a province, and that it should be independent of the political membership of any political party. You talk all the time about working on depolitics and standing up for something like that. You accuse us of not doing it, and now that we do it, then you say, that member is grotesque. It's just that things aren't, they're more like some kind of political statement. On the other hand, I don't know how much you understand the law that defines the issue of property and the definition of the change of purpose of the property of Jellyzara Smederevo. I don't know how you sold the Ironstone many years ago to U.S. Steel with such unresolved questions? We take no more than one square inch or millimeter on this law, nor take anything away from anyone outside of today's ownership of the Ironworks, but we change our purpose. We need to define precisely and clearly what it is today in the possession of the Ironworks, which it is intended to have, whether it has the permission to use, whether something needs to change in that part and how, in the best possible and efficient way to make it real. And all the way it ended with U.S. Steel, maybe it's part of everything we talked about. So, I don't understand your remarks. I asked in this debate that we be all specific, to make suggestions on how to improve something. I haven't heard from you a single suggestion on how to make something better, how to be more specific, how to put some things in place. I am proud of what you say – yes, we passed one law in 2013 and now we are doing a new law that is even more stringent, and much has been done in the meantime we will have opportunities to discuss how many things have been done and ultimately, the Ombudsman has given consent without any objection to this text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Natasa Vučković, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50317	I'm happy for the attorney general. You see, Mr. Minister, you obviously didn't understand me. It's not a good formulation to be an independent member. You should have defined from what and in what way independent. I, of course, am for independence, but I'm talking about the next thing. And these members who are on the political line should be professional, quality, competent, because that is the only way they can protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the supervisory board. There is no word in the Law on Public Enterprises about how the government will be treated in the election of these members. And the way you formulated that one member should be independent, it's absolutely not understandable from whom it's independent. That's what I said, and the way it's formulated is grotekstan. As far as the Iron Law is concerned, I have made it very clear what provisions we are referring to. As for your remark that we should be here to give concrete, I think, Mr. Minister, that you may not have understood that we are having a principle debate today. In principle, it is discussed whether laws are necessary. We have the right as MPs to say whether this law is necessary, is not necessary, has not been applied before, etc. This is a principle debate. We have submitted, as I said, 150 amendments to these laws and all concrete proposals to improve texts, we will have the opportunity to talk in two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50318	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50319	From your presentation, I can only understand that you are against this law and against agreeing and defining much better conditions for selecting a director, for selecting board members, because we have very clearly and precisely shown how many criteria we have raised in this regard. I wish maybe you'd given us an explanation here as to how "The Iron" was privatized many years ago towards U.S. Steel? These are the questions we should be talking about here today, when we talk about "The Irons".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50320	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50321	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, we support all the proposed laws that are in this principle and unique search today on the agenda. I will focus most on the draft law on public enterprises, and my distinguished colleagues and colleagues will discuss the details, about some other laws, each according to the profession he deals with. Just three years ago, we discussed the Law on Public Enterprises, and then we had the goal of improving corporate governance. We also had a desire to provide a good legal framework for the access of a good host in the management of public enterprises, to provide an adequate control system, and, of course, sanctions for irresponsible business. It has shown that we have failed until the end, that the legal framework in practice has shown shortcomings and legal gaps, especially in the work concerning control and accountability in the management of public enterprises. What are the fundamental changes in this proposal for a law on public enterprises? I can say that the bill provides for the directors of a public enterprise to be appointed by the Government for a period of four years and based on a public competition. The bill stipulates that the director of a public enterprise is not a member of the political party's body, i.e. that he is assigned to stay in office within the political party's authority. The director of a public enterprise, as I have already said, is named for a five-member commission, one of which is the president. Just to point out, the president and two members appointed the government for a three-year period, and then appointed one member by a two-thirds majority resolution board of the assembly responsible for business affairs and a three-year period. One member shall be appointed individually by the Government for each appointment. And this time I'm going to repeat that the observation that the government is setting up public business executives, that it's a defamation of an idea of a department and a notorious nonsense. If we start from the assumption that there should be public enterprises owned by the state, whether the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces or local self-government, then these companies must be responsible for someone's business, which some are owners, or representatives of owners, in this case are citizens of Serbia. I can't see, but I'd like someone to enlighten me, where's the logic in the fact that the director of a public firm should be chosen by someone who's not the owner? What will motivate these people to do well and who should choose these people, will they, for example? Party A or Party B to account for the work of public enterprises to citizens, without having the possibility to at least oversee the process of choice of management? What is the responsibility of any party for the work of a company that neither sets up management nor can it be replaced? If instead of a public competition, in which the best and where the best should not be a member of the party's organs, we will go to the full push of directly elected representatives of the people, then why not privatise all the public enterprises and end this process forever? If the government doesn't do this job well, of course, the people will. Now we've entered the rhythm to check the work for two years, so the government's responsibility has been increased. In particular, I would point out that the criteria and composition of bodies selected by the managers are much more important that public undertakings are obliged to publish on their website a few things: under one, working biographies of members of the supervisory board, directors and executive directors, organisational structure, annual, or three-year plan, business programme, as well as all of its changes that will take place and a copy of this programme, a three-month report on the implementation of the annual, i.e. three-year business programme and an annual financial report with the opinion of the authorised auditor, of course, as well as any other information relevant to the public. There is no better way to prevent the choice of incompetent than the public in the work. So I guess we won't be able to keep our biographies hidden. Also, with biographies, three-year plans are proof that someone is either elemental or capable of running a company, both when it comes to its forehead and when it measures its results. Annually, i.e. a three-year business plan contains planned sources of revenue and expenditure positions for purposes, planned purchases, investment plan, planned method of distribution of profits, i.e. the planned method of covering losses, elements for comprehensive consideration of product and service prices, profit and employment plans and criteria for the use of aid, sports activities, propaganda and representation. I don't want to get into the details here, it's quite clear that serious control is being introduced into public enterprises. What I would like to point out is that this plan is public and as it has become public, there is no better way to bring the business to the court of the professional public. Also, in order to be able to talk about expertise and results, it is extremely important that the law says that by prohibiting the use of property, activity, name and visual identity of a public enterprise in all activities related to political parties and election campaigns, as well as any other use of public enterprises for political purposes, and that a public enterprise that does not have competition in the market of activity of general interest cannot be advertised without the consent of the founders. I think this is great and this is huge progress. When you have such provisions, provided that we have the willingness of everyone to stick to the law as a drunk float, the possibilities for public enterprises to be more Ali Beg's straw, which everyone stretches out as they please. It is worth noting that the term of office of directors cannot be longer than one year, and the same person cannot be appointed twice as acting director. Status v.d. tells us that we either have a manager who doesn't want to do anything or that the government has no time or desire to deal with some difficult issues. That's why it's especially great that there's no repeating V.D. status. The law stipulates that the company's supervisory board, the founder of Serbia, has five members appointed by the government for a period of four years. Supervisory board members must have qualifications that enable them to deal with what their job is, not be, as has often been the case so far, professional recipients of the fee for simple appearance and nomination of everything that serves them management. It is very important that representatives of staff sit on the Supervisory Board, as experience shows us that in many public enterprises it was the representatives of the union or those employees who were the first to point out potential problems, as well as abuses. However, that was the case in the previous law. We need not only to satisfy the form, but to chase the essence as fast as it once is. The removal of the Executive Board, as an excess collective body, is foreseen, while the director of staff will elect the executive directors and there shall be no more than seven. We've submitted some amendments. One refers to the exactly scheduled fines for a responsible person in a public enterprise, which now stands from 50 to 150 thousand, we have increased from 500 to a million and 500. So, when someone is well aware that they will be well punished, they will consider whether to submit an annual report, or a three-year operating programme within the prescribed deadlines, that they have spent funds for certain purposes above the level established by that programme or not delivering a three-month report within the deadline. Penalties are provided for if the public undertaking does not implement the adopted annual or three-year business plan in the work relating to employee earnings and makes a profit payment without an overture of the forms or does not publish on the website the data. The bill prevents the uncontrollable establishment of public enterprises at local level, as well as leaving already established public enterprises with e.g. One employee and a huge debt and a loss. The public undertaking is required to pay part of the profits made to the budget. I don't mind, though I have an idea, but we should talk about it a little longer. I don't think we should just take that as an implicit taxation and that we should do every single one of our jobs. Of course I don't mind paying off the founder's profits, but there's no competition at the expense of some other things, because public enterprises are a service to citizens. Some of the remarks I'm pointing out here are just proof that we have different views on operational issues, but we agree on strategic matters entirely. When the previous Law on Public Enterprises was passed, we conducted serious controversy, even in the plural, and even on the Committee on Business, about the work of looking for three years of experience in the business area. We think it's the wrong approach. Why? I'll explain, as I explained then. A specific experience is no guarantee of management skills. It could only be required for the director to have a certain number of years of experience in managerial positions. Accordingly, we have also submitted an amendment, when we have corrected the previous law in this regard, and you, Minister, look with your associates, so we can exchange arguments if you're in the mood. The top manager should at least have technical expertise, but he should have conceptual expertise, where technical focus can be an obstacle, and a lack of management expertise, experience, a great lack. The key task of the top manager is not to know the technical characteristics, processes and engineering aspects. I think the best top managers would be professionals in their technical areas. As we know, it's not like that in practice. A good top manager needs to know that he plans a strategic planning process, that he knows that he manages all the stack holders, that he extracts information from management accounting documents, that he organizes a team of associates, that he interferes and inspires employees and that he knows that he negotiates and communicates. Top Manager's competences are those competences taught at top business schools, and you know what they are. It's about top management experience, not professional experience. Warren Buffett would be disqualified with us to be the manager of most public enterprises, according to this proposal. Bill Gates couldn't run Serbia's dedicated industry, and Michael Del's Bookshop, for example. The leading names of the domestic business would be inadequate candidates for most public enterprises. It's just not a well-defined criterion. We consider it because it deprives us of the opportunity to attract the best, and we want our public enterprises to really be the pride of Serbia, the engines of development and to have a prestigious career in them. The technical criterion can be left in a much lighter form. It does not have to be three years old, but it must require experience in top management positions and, preferably, it is best to develop a rule for complex and comprehensive assessment of candidates, and then their plans. It would be very good to launch a debate on the profile of people who will be sitting in appointment committees. That's very important. We need good managers from the area, we need commissions to be proactive, not just impartial and analytical in the conduct of competitions. It is necessary to think carefully about the experience from the management of human resources of the world's largest companies being applied by the appointment committees and to have top human resource managers sitting in them. It is often not only the fulfillment of formal conditions, which is a necessary condition, but also a careful and analytical assessment of the profiles of each of the employees through sessions of tests, conversations and the use of modern human resource management tools. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, I may have been a little unfair about the work of people who have prepared other laws and people who will have better lives when the same laws are implemented today on the agenda. However, public enterprises are one of our biggest problems. To highlight some more things, amendments and additions to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions are going to meet the needs of the future. These are arrangements that can solve many problems, from infrastructure to utility. We also have to admit that we were green. As a state, we have learned lessons, it is no shame to admit, we have learned from the best and now we think that we have provided a framework for a transparent and fair tender procedure in the process of seeking a private partner for such projects, with equal treatment of all bidders, of course, both domestic and foreign. The adopted proposal provides clear rules for the implementation of projects of general interest through a public private partnership and will also contribute to attracting domestic and foreign investors and banks to finance and co-finance projects of general interest. We're all equal in front of our laws, but sometimes it's not the easiest thing to do when it comes to realising complex contractual relationships. Current changes are going towards equality that is always attractive to the best investors. Most of them prefer just that, not to be given privileges because they also mean a dose of obscenities. The Socialists always support vulnerable groups, so that changes and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which, with the protection of the most socially vulnerable, are considered a good step, but only one in a series that has to systematically solve the strange equation of mixing the income and leisure sides in the budget. Social policy is dissipating, income is not, but the income side has to be regulated in a reasonable way. As for the proposal for a law on public health, my esteemed colleague, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, will be a little more detailed on the Law on Public Health and the Bill on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases. I can only say as authorized in front of the parliamentary group that they provide a basis to ensure a high level of protection of people's lives and health and prevention, prevention, eradication of infectious diseases. We used to be at a high level in this area, so the system was slightly broken down, and new challenges were created, and this law is returning us to, as we would say, the right direction. At the very end, of course, I want to stress that the SPS, once again, supports, and that we will vote in favour of this set of laws that are on the agenda today and which are the subject of today's united debates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50322	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50323	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, what we have so far had the opportunity to hear that the Serbian grotesque is actually the rule of DS until 2012 in the area of public enterprises, because there was no such law. It is true that in December 2012, the Law on Public Enterprises was adopted, and it is true that this first step was practical, in an attempt to get the directors elected, indeed in competition and not to be politically colored, because until then such ideas were not even because they were shared precisely because of when government and directorial places were created. The Serbian Progressive Party had a state of affairs in 2012 and indeed thanks to many of the directors who remained in those seats, with the help of these directors, a consolidation of public finances was carried out, given that Serbia was in a very difficult financial situation at the time. What we've been given as a state of emergency is to solve the issue of over 700 public enterprises, where over 100,000 people work and at this point. But we also have a ban on employment, therefore, the idea of hiring people in public enterprises does not stand, in the way it was done by 2012. In addition, the problems we inherited, and we had to solve them, is the abolition of the boards of directors and supervisors by system – five, seven, 12, and even 21, when we talk about the board of directors of the PIO Fund. We have now solved this in a certain way by saying in the 2012 law - five members of the Supervisory Board for Public Enterprises at the Republic level, three at the level of local self-government, with the fact that we did not want to decidently say that at local level companies we only want the directors to be from that branch, because we were aware of the lack of capacity, when we talk about businesses at the local level. Our statistics today say that we have 37 companies in the Republic, 691 companies at the level of local self-government, of which 457 companies are in the field of public-public enterprises, 56 when we talk about media and sports activities, and the rest of the over 170 companies dealing with the arrangement, in general urbanism and directorates, in the jurisdiction of property directors and resolving the issue of urbanist conditions of local self-government. These are today's statistics. Today, essentially with these legal proposals, we raise one scale and give tasks, first of all, to those who choose the directors of public enterprises, which are supervisory committees, to simply take into account, on which basis and which criteria will be chosen by the director of public enterprises, with the conditions prescribed by the law, which are – five years of work, a high expert prepares, a three-year minimum which experience in corporate governance and which have nothing to do with the subject. By 2012, we didn't have cases like this. But in addition to such a choice by the director of a public enterprise, we have an obligation to draw up annual work plans, a minimum of 15 after the adoption of the budget, which is a great condition for any director to remain director of a public enterprise. Supervisory board members can't be people who don't have any contact with the subject. They will have to be professional people and will even have to have certain licences, i.e. passed professional exams to be members of the Supervisory Board. When we talk in general about the Law on Public Enterprises, then we should say that the conditions required are to strengthen control and now the ministry will practically have more control that had no mechanisms at all to carry out stronger control, especially in these 691 companies, which refer to local self-government. It will have a greater opportunity regarding financial performance and will have the opportunity to define practically the exact deadlines when it comes to quarterly reporting of public business work. In the end, he also had increased transparency when it comes to the public of the company's very work. You know, I was the only member of the Committee on Economic Affairs to go to a public presentation of Serbia's Transparency in the media centre over a year ago, their studies on the effect of taking the work of a public company where Mr. Goati had a presentation of this study. I went there to hear what the opinion at the end and the NGO sector is about the general work of public enterprises, what they think it's good to do when it comes to this sector. What I've had a chance to hear is that they support all these suggestions we've had. After that, there were talks within working groups with the Ministry of Economy, where there were also transparency between Serbia and the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which made their own proposals to certain members where they wanted to raise more in terms of many criteria for both choice and corporate governance, for which Serbia was not ready at the moment. When it was not ready until 2012 to pass such a rigid law, and it was not passed, and when, simply with the arrival of the SNS to the government, such a proposal was made, and now we see that these certain problems could not be overcome, therefore, by this law and we are making it that can be realisticly applicable in practice. For this reason, we are talking not only about wanting corporate governance but we are unequivocally saying that public enterprises can no longer be a solution to the social problems of this society. This stems from the fact that these reports by the directors will be the subject of an evaluation of their work and a simple reason why they can be replaced. You never had it in your practice, you never did it. It was precisely because there was no political will and there were very many political parties made by the government, who felt that they were not capable enough and that they did not have that capacity to implement something like this. That is why I believe that this concept of the Law on Public Enterprises should be supported. What we're talking about when it comes to the Law on Public-private Partnership, it is true that within the framework of legal solutions there are now a proposal for a law on trade, but the same is true that the Ministry of Business has joint committees that are considering such proposals. It is true that the current bill did not allow for more projects to be implemented both in local self-government and at the level of the Republic, when we talk about the Law on Public-private Partnership. So the possibility of private, foreign and domestic investors, in collaboration with local self-government, republican authorities, simply giving new projects and simply opening new jobs through solutions like this. All 34 projects are active in the Ministry of Economy, at all, which the Serbian government currently has, but what it provides as an option, gives the possibility and the obligation to simply when we talk about concession contracts, they go to public advertising in the tender. That such tenders no longer have to be published in the "Fanenschl Times", in the most expensive magazines, because it is simply a great burden for local self-governments, but that they have the opportunity to publicize the tender through certain means and to make investments greater than 50m euros a part of the consideration and to be part of the consent given by the Ministry of Finance and only the Ministry of Economy. Why? Because simply controlling public finances must exist in these projects as well. When we talk about the Law of Public Interest and the declaration of property rights of Željzara Smederevo, then we should say that these are, in fact, inherited problems which are practically part of the policy in general for the last 12 years, because we can all agree on that property and legal relations in the Republic of Serbia are the main problem in general of solving issues and construction and exiting, when we talk about the issue of public private partnership and the part relating to the flow of foreign direct investment, but also the part, especially when we talk about how the government in the past essentially even had relations with the "US style", so how does one of the MPs say that it was a private company, in which they then returned to the state sector and jurisdiction and in which way the property came out to foreign investors? Whether it's "US style" or now it's someone else, not at all, it's important that when you go out to investors, you don't just go out with facilities and production facilities, you go out with the company's capital. You can't fold the capital unless you know what your facilities are, which is the land and simply, what is this complex. We've had opportunities on the board today to hear that 170,000 squares in the Jellyzare complex are practically not going anywhere. And that's what's astounding at all as the fact that all these years we've spent, we've had unresolved, practically land issues. This means that we had an unresolved capital issue, which means that we rightly did not essentially adopt the law on the property of Serbia in the part in which it was meant, because obviously that a large part of the property would remain out of reach of such a law and that essentially we would not have the right picture of what we have. The unresolved issues of Jellyzara Smederevo, practically, give us an extorted solution here, so-called "Lex Specialis", because if we wanted to apply the law we recently passed on the law of construction facilities, then the procedure would take a minimum year and a half. With this, we are practically cutting that deadline, solving this issue and showing one seriousness to all potential investors, and even to those who are currently in possession of a lease contract for Jelizara Smederevo. Finally, when we talk about laws in the field of economy, and it concerns the Law on Metrology and concerns the Law on Amendments and Noble Metals, it should be said that we are here in the role of introducing and harmonising legislation with the EU, but also opening up practical opportunities for our exporters, who are dealing with this topic, that simply in a smooth way, they can become part of the EU market and regions, because when you get the opportunity to place a stamp that is in line with international standards and regulations, then you simply become competitive and therefore, you essentially increase exports when it comes to the brand. Of course, it should be said that when it comes to the Law on Metrology, somewhere I don't think he has enough light when it comes to the Business Act at all, and it's an integral part of the Ministry of Industry's work, we're talking about a jurisdiction that talks about the certification of the criteria. It's a large part of a whole branch that deals with measuring certain activities, it goes into part of the work, and let's say, I'm going to tell you that a large number of enterprises dealing with, say, quality of fuel and dealing with issues of co-operation with oil, gas storage, say, were not able to do this in an adequate way until we passed this law. They were practically handcuffed. That's why I say that this law is not well-recognized somewhere, and it's very important and it's very important that we bring it in today. When we talk about other laws at all, those relating to agreements, and they are related to both road and air traffic today, it shows that this set of laws opens up that part of co-operation when it comes to agreements and allows for the obstacles that exist practically in the work, and they are also related to the economy, these are being collapsed and it is perfectly normal that they are an integral part of today's session, and I don't think there should be any question in that part. When we talk about health laws, it is obvious that there are parliamentary elections ahead of us, it is obvious that there will be not enough time to simply organise a special one session about health care, but when you look at what these laws are talking about, and they are about to protect, improve people's health and the issue of infectious diseases, since we have some announcements in the region that there are certain infectious diseases that we may simply have to look at daily, it is perfectly understandable that such draft laws can be an integral part of any session. If we're talking about an excuse for why they found themselves in such a united debate today, I just don't think they should cause any suspicion that there were any bad intentions, because I think that even members of other political parties will surely support such drafts of the law. Therefore, in voting day, simply my fellow doctors will support this bill, and in detail these laws will be spoken of by them. I think these are all the reasons when we talk about this economic set, and we also have the financial sector on the elimination of double taxation, the reasons why this law should be adopted, and I really thank Mr Sertic for having had real patience at the Committee's session today to explain at all the reasons why we have these legislative proposals on the agenda today. In voter day, the SNS will accept these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50324	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word, or any of them? No, I don't. ) We move to work in order of the reported. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50325	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the laws of the economy, the very important laws on public-private partnership and the Law on Public Enterprises. This sends a clear political message and a clear desire and will to continue the economic reforms that have been carried out in our country since the formation of the government on 27 April 2014. This is just a continuation of the adoption of reform laws, such as the Law on Planning and Construction, the Labour Act, the Law on Inspectives, but also a very significant Law on Investments and About them, on a public-private partnership we are talking about as another instrument and the possibility of meeting one of the main objectives of this government, and of course our Parliament, and this is new employment, a new opportunity to create new jobs and what is called a better service for both citizens and businesses. As for improving the work of public enterprises, this can be compared freely with improving the work of the public administration. No country in the world, however modern it is, no matter how developed, no matter how market economy has been developed, has brought public administration, state administration, but also management in public enterprises to perfection. But what is important is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on it, working to make public companies as efficient and efficient as possible, to make their work much more productive and to select people in public enterprises working on the principles of modern human resources management models, which means that in public companies, managers and those who lead them in the next period should be those who can achieve the best results, which have the best qualifications, which have the best education, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia through a clear system of control will make sure that these people who have the best skills and will contribute to public enterprises as one of the pillars of one country's development are better and more efficient. Much has been said in the past, not two or three years, over the past 15 years about corporate governance, and I believe that this time and through the adoption of this law we can come up with these good formulas and the ability to hire the best people, the best candidates, those who will not be burdened, after all, with party books and obligations towards their political parties, but that the managers of these companies, or the directors who have, in accordance with this bill, and the greatest responsibility, that they will have responsibility only in businesses and towards their own country and will strive to work in the best interests of the state and, of course, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I must mention is, this is the success of this government when it comes to reducing the debt of public enterprises that amounted to as much as 55 billion in 2013, at the end of 2014, so it is reduced by 15 billion, so that it is seen that this control process has been done in a good and quality way, and the new provisions of this bill will make that control a maximum increase and that there is no room for what managers, i.e. directors and bodies of these companies, such as boards of directors and supervisors, simply through their plans and objectives, if they fail to meet it, it will mean that they are not the staff to run these companies and will mean that they will be able to replace themselves in accordance with the needs and, of course, what defines a clear measurement of results. It is also important to note that public private partnerships as a tool for new employment, as an instrument for building infrastructure, the creation of new partnerships with private companies has not been used enough in the Republic of Serbia, we only have 34 contracts for the past five years. I will give an example of how important it is to force and improve the policy of public private partnerships, such as "Er Serbia" partnership with "Etihada" from the United Arab Emirates. From one company that had a loss of 13m euros in 2012, which shared 13th salary, which had a huge number and surplus employees, we now have a company that makes a profit, we have a company that is related to Etyhad, which has been named one of the world's best airlines in the world. So it's a formula, it's a system that is generally recognized and famous in the world, in Great Britain, Germany, so, in countries where market economies are developed, where there's development of economy, industrial development, infrastructure development. In addition to what they did in the previous period, we want to implement it in our country, and, in any case, that these draft laws are simply a good contribution to the implementation of economic reforms, economic development and, of course, new opportunities for new employment. Moreover, to mention that it is very important for the Republic of Serbia, almost no one has talked about it, is the Law on Avoiding Double Taxation with the Republic of Korea. The Republic of Korea founded in December, so it opened its trade representation in Serbia. This means that Korean companies that are among the best in the world want to invest in Serbia, have recognised Serbia as the economic leader in the region. Minister Sertic is one of the people who has been very helpful in helping the Koreans come here and, hopefully, establish their companies, hire new people and invest here, but invest with a spilling effect, bringing us new technologies, new knowledge and all that has a very positive performance for employment, especially our young people, highly educated and highly qualified people. Of course, on behalf of the SDPS, I can say that we will support a whole set of these laws and, of course, we will support everything that goes towards economic reforms and new employment, because it is in the interests of citizens and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50326	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50327	Thank you very much. Two approaches, first – the systematic continuation of violence against the procedure, parliament, institutions, 14 draft laws, five or six French, were adopted on Saturday, and are already at the adoption today in a joint debate where they have nothing to do with it, unless public enterprises and public health have some direct connection, and everything related to Luxembourg and Smederevo. I'd like someone to explain it. It's a good thing we have public health, so maybe that's where it says how it can be explained, probably in some part of mental illness. But what to do, it's nothing new. It's been repeated for two years, even two years before. It may have been before, but it's not good. That's not how good laws are passed. That kind of law-making thing under the veil of a secret creates a reasonable doubt that something is trying to hide it, and I think it's obvious, at least for a few examples here. The law on public enterprises does not bring anything important new. The cosmetic changes that were given are cosmetic. A major dilemma to manage public enterprises. Of course he's gonna run the government, it's all over the place. The question is why there are so many public enterprises, why both employees and executives are privileged in relation to anyone in this country, even with regard to government officials sitting here, who were reduced salaries a year ago, and in public enterprises everything is fine, and all public enterprises are losing to losers and it's a long-term internship. Does this law change anything? Of course, it doesn't change. The fact that they will meet the people of the supervisory board with the company's performance is a very unusual term for it, and that is what Mrs Natasa Vuckovic already said, that I am not going back to it. What's more important is what about "Sartida"? It was recently called by some to say it was privatised "Sartid" 12 years ago, almost 13 years ago. I say – excellent, not privatized but sold out of bankruptcy, but it is by the assessment of all those, so I think the people of the government will agree, either the Periklov era “Sartida”, and by the investments and by the results, by the organisation of the work, by everything that defines that area. What's new now? How come Americans, the biggest firm in the world, had no problem assessing what Sartida property is, and now it's necessary to establish, wouldn't it be made public again, under quotes, to sell to the Chinese, which we know? As we knew about Esmark, we also know that some Chinese will be buyers in a public tender. It is part of the visibility that the Transparency of Serbia reports today, where the presence of Minister Sertic calls for the "Meita" company, it is Obrenovac, as I remember on November 2nd of this year, came to a conclusion and approved the funds calling for the government's conclusion of 30 October last year and for the Commission's decision to control state aid, and the Commission made its decision seven or eight days ago, on 11 February. So, 20m euros and some million euros, as I followed, went to a company that has four employees, at this point four employees. That means it's about five million in a new job. Eura, of course. It's really the first time in Serbia's history. All that is brought over the knee, overnight, secretly, of course not good, because if it were good we'd have days and months to promote these good solutions, would be gatherings, would be special shows, extraordinary press conferences and all that. However, no, something is pushed under the grain here, and I think it would be fair if the minister were to resign, since I hear there will be elections, so the government is practically already in resignation, to tell us what's going on under the grain, Minister Sertic. Or what would be said to a good Serbian people's expression – what is the matter with pre-election time? It would be very good to get that information, see when Sartid will be the best firm in Serbia again and when other successes will be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50328	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50329	Thank you. As soon as you calm down, and I think you've done it, we're farmers, sometimes we're a little impatient, but I understand my colleague. I'm particularly worried about the part where he claims something's going on under the grain. Something's going on under the grain! He's an expert on that under the grain. If he didn't assess what was going on, and he's expert on it under the grain, then I'll have a hard time assessing it, since, say, DIN - the Nis industry, which I partially participated in, was estimated at 1.2 billion euros in 2003. My colleague was Prime Minister back then. So DIN is together with DIV, a colleague of Nikolic knows it, it seems to me sold for 2.4 times less money. What was going on under the grain? That's a lot. They didn't just sell DIN and DIV, but my colleague the farmer gave himself the right to sell all the smokers. The sales contract, that under the grain, which we didn't know, and let me tell you that everything was going on, the beginning of the procedure that is most important and part of the procedure around that tender was being rejected during "Sablje", during the state of emergency. And, imagine, it's beneath the grain during emergency! Well, 2.4 times less than the estimated value. Instead of DIN being worth more than TD Rovinj, he was worth 2.5 times less. I believe for those reasons that he's very expert on it under the grain. But, with cigarettes factories, they sell smokers. The contract said I didn't know how many years no one had the right to even open a cigarette factory in Serbia, because the entire smoking population was sold alongside factories. So, they sold people who consume cigarettes, because they, my God, had no right to, in a period that had been named over several years in the contract, have a domestic cigarette manufacturer, but they had to smoke "Filip Morris" cigarettes, because the gromada that led the government of the Republic of Serbia had to go along with the gratis factory also smokers. The Minister of Health knows what the cost of overconsuming cigarettes are, so I believe the foreigners have benefited, the customers, and we have come in a position to take care of the health of smokers, since there is a law here that touches public health. That's what was happening partly under the grain, and I'll explain how it was sold, while my esteemed colleague was a federal police minister, except that he was killed by the prime minister, and he wasn't responsible because the prime minister wasn't killed in both Federation members, but only in one, and he was federal for both, so he's considered irresponsible, so as it was sold under the grain, I'm obliged to explain. There's the Minister of Business, there's both taxes and tax administration. How was the mouth market centre and then the Central Committee for the Price of Aluminium that was on those windows sold? It was sold in some procedure where the competition was launched in June, without any commission, and the contract was concluded in December with a firm that, when offers were taught, did not exist. Well, that's how it happened under the grain and the public defender's office got, federally then, one version of the contract, and another version of the contract was signed with a firm that didn't even exist during the contest. So it was under the grain and the last one to say what was going on under the grain was my fellow farmer. When he failed to, with all his practical knowledge, etc., with all his mind, when he failed to really figure out what was going on under the grain here, then how am I, when I wasn't in those positions and I wasn't in those stores under the grain, how am I supposed to figure out what was underneath the grain? I'll tell you what's good. Tax administration law. At least it's clear to me that no one guarantees mortgages for the current taxpayers unless I'm wrong. For each debt so far, which is greater than two million dinars, the taxpayer is obliged to contribute the mortgage to debt and total interest. If he pays for it in the next 60 months, the state will write off half his interest. But for the entire debt and for the entire interest, he must guarantee a guarantee or mortgage on property that is greater than the value of the debt. If that's not good for the state, I don't know what's good for the state. Should we then allow unsecured tax debts to be outstanding and the state to be at risk, and tax bonds brought into inequality, so that those who have served their debts continue to support those who are unsecured? I think that's good, and I hope most well-intentioned colleagues agree. As for the contribution to the health care of farmers, I believe the minister will say in the coming period that the government is working hard on it and committed and that, in a similar way, perhaps for the write-off of the entire interest, the debt of the farmers for health insurance will be regulated for two reasons. First, let's get them back in the system. Secondly, to give them the opportunity to pay interest-free debts and thus to regain those who will pay contributions for the health insurance of farmers, and that they have the right to be treated, by the Constitution guaranteed by the right, and that what the former parties have missed to do in relation to the rural population, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, for a very short period of time, regulate its conclusion, given that we do not need amendments to the law here, etc. As far as taxes are concerned, I'm still going to say why that's good. Because this government still accounts for a little bit, and your tax is like collecting honey. You have to take as much of the bees as you need, but you have to make sure that there's something left for the bees too, so that we can come into a position next year to pick up honey, because the bees will feed on the rest and produce some new honey. That's why it's a good thing, instead of shutting down the companies, that the debts are non-refundable, that there's damage to the budget and keeping the hives, that we've got someone to take the taxes from next year. I think it's a good thing and all that's in favor of production I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, will always support it. Speaking of public health, I have to say that we have to take care of what my colleague said about what was going on under the grain. We have to talk about Kamenica 2 when it comes to public health. It was opened by a bunch of duchess of duchess in 2008 or 2009 and said it would be over by 2010, together with the equipment, that it would cost 18.3 million, if I'm not mistaken, the health minister was there, certainly he hadn't decided on it, but he was most likely to follow it, and it turned out it wasn't finished yet. It's 2016 today. It's obvious that the duchess government who talks about straddlings and satires has satirically deceived us and it's not over. But, look at the wonders! With the borrowing we're going to have to pay, because he's leaving power. That cost 33 million so far, if I'm not mistaken, and it's not over yet. You know how it was done? Four thousand squares, each square in construction cost 3,500 euros. It's an incredible price, for New York, for any big city. A matter of public health, it's an incredible price to pay. In order for our viewers to know, on the subject of hospitals in the Vojvodina territory, it is decided exclusively by the AP Vojvodina, its government, its own government, so that they know that we were in no way able to prevent that money from being squandered in the way it was squandered, and it belonged primarily to the taxpayers, and beneath the grains, to finance my fellow farmer's list, that money was most likely distributed between politicians and suppliers. I hear some famous Acai Diagonal was doing everything. For example, for oncology, for pulmonary diseases and cardiovascular diseases, ten new beds were provided in four thousand square meters. Ten new beds, whole, cost 33 million. So this one-third that belongs to the most endangered, which is the coronary, etc., ten beds for them, and the director of the cabinet has three times the size of the cabinet's room, along with the bathroom, and maybe even the jacuzzi, is three times the space where they should be coronary patients. Now, that's satire, that's the strategism of the Duke's rule. Let's see the radiation machines. They're getting them, I think, since 2008, 2009, in 2010, now the government's got them a single radiation machine, as far as I know. Otherwise, six times failedly they tried to organize it. Three 600m-dollar machines have estimated to cost a billion instead of sixm euros -- tenm euros. Those were violent procurements. Well, six times they tried to get it through and the obvious desire was to fill their pockets, and the mortality of cancer patients grew because they waited in rows and, behold, they even reselled the number of places in rows, waited for months, and if you didn't radiate someone at the right time, his risk of dying was far greater than that chemo was given in time. So a lot of people died because someone wanted under the grain to fill their pockets and make money, to put together an election list and go through, say, my fellow farmer. Something costing two million, three machines were supposed to cost six, they wanted to pay ten, and since it didn't go through, there were objections, six times repeated. One purchase from the call to the opening of the offer lasted 365 days. In those 365 days, they've changed the paperwork 23 times. If it's the Duke's government, if it's from that duchy strategist, if Radoje Domanovic is alive right now, I think the strategy would be to read as children for good night, for what members of the party of the former regime did. But that's not all. I'll try to explain to our viewers how they do it. The Vojvodina Institute of Pulmonary Diseases paid for one machine of 3,536,000 dinars, paid for it, and the Vojvodina Institute of Oncology paid for the same machine 8328,000, so five million more or two and a half times more than the actual value. The actual value is 28,000 euros, and the apparatus has been paid 70,000 euros, in favour of the Vojvodina Oncology Institute. That, of course, was done by this Capital Investment Authority of the Dukean Authority. Well, let's see that under the grain, how much they care about public health, and how much about that under the grain. The General Hospital of Kickinda. I don't know where Mr. Blazic is, to warn him that the public procurement, whose price was 12,000 euros, was estimated at 3,000,000, was paid 2994,000, not to be 3,000,000, or paid two and a half times more. One bidder was with the right offer, so that it wouldn't be crowded, to be sure, a safety under the grain. Zrenjanin General Hospital. My dear Zrenjanci, a public procurement of 13.500,000 was evaluated by the Capital Investment Authority at 3,600,000, paid 3,524,000, just enough to make it fit and stand out. Instead of 13,500, it came out 30,000, or twice as many, more than the actual price. Home of Health Baki Petrovac. Dear Slovaks, you know, a public procurement of 13,500 euros was paid 3,600,000, or 30,000 euros, or two and a half times that. That's what's underneath the grain, about public health. Senta Health Home, entry price, rights, 17,000, estimated at 4.200, paid 4.195, just enough to satisfy the form. So it's been paid, instead of 17,000, to almost 40,000 euros and let us know that they are not so modest. The clinic center of Vojvodina, the clinic for urology, the public procurement entry price of 17,500 euros, the price later 35,000 euros or 3,924,000. The clinic center of Vojvodina, the gynecology and obstetrics clinic, the entry price of 39,000 euros, estimated 6,500, paid 6,480, paid almost twice as much. The Institute for Oncology of Vojvodina, public procurement, an entry price of 18,000 euros, a price paid for 6.998,000 or 60,000 euros, three times the entry price. Home of Health Novi Sad, an entry price of 35,000 euros, paid 60,000 euros. That's what's underneath the grain. That's what our viewers need to know, that in terms of health, in terms of hospitals in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that's what Vojvodina does. How does the Republic do that? Linear accelerators, radiation machines, were obtained, at a cost of 170m to 200m, on average slightly less than 2m euros, three times less than those of the AP Vojvodina. Of these machines, one is assigned to them, since patients would not have to suffer the consequences of the Duke's rule. They're assigned one machine, and they're still getting supplies. The gamma knife seems to have cost me about four million. Now, look at how many gamma knives have been squandered by the duchess and his buddies, gathered in the shadow government, along with this lady from Sremska Kamenica, named Cemerlic, etc., behold, she is our shadow minister. She's supposed to be a shadow minister, with some of these weird-looking bulkheads and uniforms all over her, and windows all along. So she's their shadow minister of health. The viewers, our citizens, were bound by my obligation to meet them, as well as the Republic Health Fund, and you remember how much shit was created when I was appointed on a proposal from the farmer's insurance company, to represent the insurance companies there, because there doctors can't be, so they don't do their jobs, how much shit in a newspaper that favored the former regime's party was, so let me tell you, that instead of 30 billion out of the budget, he pulled only 12.1 million, so he saved about 18 billion euros, in just a year. Only on medications, centralised procurement 3.5 billion, if I'm not mistaken, RFZO saved, compared to 2012 when prices were lower. So it was to expect us to spend more, and we spent less, for those 3.5 billion or 30 million euros, we could buy all of these, that the republic buys both gamma knife and all of these linear accelerators, for which these in Vojvodina robbed blood. Now, that's what Serbia needs to be divided into two periods, in which it was, in the 1990s, when they threatened us outside, and inside of it, they stole from 2000 to 2012 when they threatened us on the outside, and inside, thanks to the former regime's party, they stole and stole largely. The Stradia, which he's talking about, is not a tragedy. This is power. The satire best refers to him where members of the party of the former regime write themselves passwords, where they rule with 5% instead of 50%. It's a tragedy he wants to talk about. Since he keeps calling me, I am constantly offering him a TV duel to discuss what is true, what is not, as well as those dead-end coffins he credited to the province's organs to return credit in coffins, Mr Martinovic knows that. We can talk about all this, but definitely the parties to the former regime, my fellow citizens, don't deserve any of your votes. He introduced them, usually suggested the amendments "be deleted", you don't wipe them with rubber, wipe them with pencils for the simple reason that Mr. Duchy Ruler shouldn't talk about satires, he's for tragedy. He put this country, the former regime party, and still the province of Vojvodina, for 16 years, led its citizens into a tragedy, put himself in fairy tales, into castles, and the people took him to the bass, and while the people barely live, to say to the neighboring animals, he enjoys, his members in the Maldives eat lobsters, ride yachts, ride mayhems. I didn't see a worker, a peasant in Vojvodina, or fly on a French mountain, or have a boat in the Danube. So erase them with pencils, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50330	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50331	Thank you. You have violated Article 27, which obliges you to care for the application of all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, including members who speak of the dignity of the National Assembly and of what is laughing and not to be allowed during the session of the National Assembly. Whether you heard or didn't seem to go far beyond freedom of speech, but you were obliged by the MP to interrupt and warn that this is not the place where it counts how many prime ministers were killed, how many were to be killed, and how many were not killed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50332	What are you talking about, Mrs. Comic? I didn't hear anything like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50333	I'm asking you to let me finish the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50335	For what you may not have heard, there are stenograms, so if you miss hearing you can always consult a stenogram. And, please, apply the Rules of Procedure now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50336	Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50337	So, the line of freedom of speech crosss the words that mock dead people and which are concerned with celebrating the rally in the National Assembly is humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly because it is talking about the prime minister, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who was killed in the assassination, now on March 12th, will be 13 years. All sorts of other remarks, freedom of speech, colorite, of course they fall into freedom of speech and freedom of opinion, but the moment we stop having a sense of what we can't possibly do, that's to joke about who's supposed to be killed, and who isn't, then you humiliate us all together, and then you chairmans miss out on showing to the MP that you can personally enjoy the death of every man, as we've had the chance to see, but you can't in public debate in the Assembly to talk about who should and who shouldn't be killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50338	Mrs. Comic, you said something, which I see by the disdain of the MPs has not happened. Mrs. Komic, please, we as chairman may at some point have a problem because the MPs when they speak standing and when they step away from the microphone not to hear every word. At one point, it was simply said that he was a Prime Minister at a time when the prime minister was killed, but that the prime minister was mentioned in a negative and ugly context, I didn't hear it. I'm sorry if that happened, I'll take a look at the notes, if that's what happened that I didn't react. But I didn't hear it the way you just said it. You said a lot of things, I'm sure, if I didn't hear one word say, but so much of what you just said, it certainly didn't happen in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. We will have a chance, I see several MPs and MPs who spoke, they will certainly be able to look back at what he said, and what you say he said, but in any case, I think that the public of Serbia and the MPs who were in the hall will be able to assess whether it was said in a way that you have now said several times. I don't think so, but we'll look at the notes. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50339	Article 106 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that says the MP can't speak beyond the agenda. Today, the draft law on public enterprises is on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50340	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, just fill me in on what MP? Whether only to the MP who had previously spoken or to MP Zivkovic. Before that, MP Zivkovic spoke, and much has been said that there was no agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50341	To the SNS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50342	And you're just limiting yourself to an SNS MP, and not to your fellow opposition fellow who also spoke out of the agenda and something that wasn't a subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50343	It's mine to determine who I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Please don't interrupt me. So, to Ambassador Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50344	I'm just pointing to the double arches, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50345	Instead of a proposal for a law on public enterprises, a bill on metrology, a proposal for a law on public health, a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, he also spoke about the murder and method of killing Prime Minister Zor Djindjic. Does anyone here in the House of Representatives or ministers have anything to do with this murder? Did he bring it, did he in any way bring it into a relationship? What does the Law on Public Enterprises or the Health Act have to do with, say, may Minister Loncar be able to answer if it has anything to do with this issue? Why didn't you interrupt Mr. Risticevic, who spoke, insulted dead people, former prime minister, living people who weren't in the O.R., spoke essentially beyond the agenda. The whole time you were talking on the phone or talking, you couldn't even hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50346	Thank you. You're making it up as usual, Mr. Veselinović. Now you're in the O.R. and you're making it up, and you didn't hear what was going on in the O.R., which is your custom to come in for a few moments, and then you know what's going on in the big O.R. Hall, which I don't think is right, you should, like the other MPs, be in the O.R. all the time, Mr. Happyinovic. You said things that weren't said here again, they didn't talk about what you said they were talking about. It is mentioned only in one word "he was the Prime Minister during the time his prime minister was killed". I think it's in that context, but I'm going to look at the rock of the note and see if that's so many sentences spoken that you've now claimed Mrs. Comic. If I make a mistake, I will apologize to you as MPs, but, I say, I allow it because we have a problem when someone is saying that we can't hear every word. I would also like it when you called to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that one of the MPs did not speak, that you also pointed out that during that time Mr. Zivkovic was throwing away, that at the moment when Mr. Risticevic had received the word he had already begun to throw away, that he was also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that he also spoke a lot more in his speech that had nothing to do with the agenda. Mr. Rističević repeated only "ownings under the grain" and these things and Mr. Zivkovic said the same thing. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50347	Will you give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50348	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. If you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know you couldn't replicate the chairman. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50349	That's hardly possible, but it doesn't matter. Infringement of Rules 107 and 108 The speaker who spoke after me has explicitly said and you will see it in a stenogram, it cannot be hidden, this is the 21st century, of someone else's fault that one prime minister was killed in one of the countries of Yugoslavia, and the other is not. So if that's not enough for you, and it's explicitly said, if that's not enough for you to take away your word and give a warning or some other punishment, then that's a really big problem. I'll ask you to vote on that in the voting day for this injury. Anything else that's said out of the agenda doesn't matter. The people know that it is for the privatisation of the tobacco industry, that these privatisations were led by Sinish Mali, who is now your chamber. No privatisation has anything to do with the ministers or with the Prime Minister's presidents, whether that's right, it's done by the Privatisation Agency. Therefore, for the tobacco industry, as it was sold, where it was sold, Sinisha... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50350	I won't let you use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkovic. If only the prime minister's responsibility is mentioned, if there is a tragic event such as killing the prime minister, if it is to speak of the prime minister's responsibility to create such a situation and the prime minister who following the investigation... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Which prime minister? Start thinking. I don't know what context someone could have said, but in the way you're saying it now, I can only see it in the notes, because I haven't heard it as the chairman. I apologize even in advance if it is found that it is said so, but we will now hear, and here is Mr. Risticevic reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I would like that when you report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, you stick to it when you say some words that are as difficult as these words that you claim to be spoken. Here you are, Mr. Risticevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50351	Thank you. I'm responsible for what I said, not what... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Which member? What member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50352	Mr. Zivkovic, I beg you, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure when you throw away and when you yell in the great hall of the National Assembly. Allow me, Mr. Risticevic didn't say a single sentence. So he can't say it in the first word, he can say it in the second sentence, but if you're asking to say it in the first sentence, please, Mr. Rističević, in the first sentence, say what member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50353	Article 103. item 8, Article 104, Article 105, Article 106, Article 107, or we move in a row. I said the privatisations of DIN and DIV were done, I told the truth, during "Sabre" [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Is this a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50354	Allow me, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50355	Let me say... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Turn off his microphone like I do. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50356	Let us finally determine what Mr. Risticevic said or you now want him not to say what he said. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that he can explain? ) Let the man say what he said, is what Mr. Zivkovic claims or something else entirely. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Is that the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50357	I understand nervousness, please give me back the time to explain why the truth is not spoken and why the dignity of the National Assembly is threatened and why I have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Because previous speakers have been false about advertising the Rules of Procedure. They simply said that I said that two prime ministers were not killed. I said that the privatisation of DIN and DIV started during "Sablje", in which the prime minister of one member was killed, and that my colleague was a federal minister of police and that he considered himself irresponsible because he did not consider himself responsible because he suffered, most likely, from thinking that he had suffered only one. I shared my grief for the murdered prime minister and today I'm sad about that murder. I shared grief, and they shared money. They conducted privatisations during "Sablje", not me. I'm responsible for what I said, not for what they thought I said. Therefore, I don't think the chairman has broken the Rules of Procedure. I think they need time taken by attitude 8. Because they've been misusing the Rules of Procedure's injuries and actually speaking the line and telling the truth. One of the great lies is the Law of Meteorology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50358	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50359	Hold on. One of the great lies is that the Doctor of Science has no right to be illiterate. Today it is at the Daily Law on Metrology, on units of measurement, not the Law on Meteorology and I beg the colleges, educational institutions that doctors at least learn literacy, that they know how to read the name of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50360	Thank you. I hope we're done with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. We heard what Mrs. Komic said, we heard what Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Veselinović said, as well as Mr. Risticevic, who explained how something was said. I'll take notes that.. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Check. ) I will see in the rock notes what is written, and in the public of Serbia it is to assess who was right in this case. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50361	So, with 14 points of the agenda, we can be very serious about the debate in the Assembly and, fortunately, all the citizens of Serbia who elected us and sent us here to represent their interests will also provide them with an exceptional opportunity to learn about legal solutions and what will be applied to them in the coming period, in any government. What we think is completely uninstructed, I understand that there is a need for individual laws to be passed by an emergency procedure and this procedure is designed to make this possible in the right way that the better quality of life can be achieved as soon as possible. However, what we have here on repertoire, first we have two laws in the field of health, means a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, a proposal for public health laws, which are important laws, and I personally think that it is a matter of harmonising legal legislation which is our obligation to the EU, i.e. The path we've predicted and who we need to go to and there's nothing at all controversial about it. These are things that have to be done. What results from the adoption of these laws is perhaps something that can worry more, and that's what we're going to do, which is what we're going to do when we have the Employment Prohibition Act, when we have a reduction of employees in public institutions, etc., etc.? What I think is the subject of special attention, these are public enterprises. Public enterprises should first be the basic levers of society in each system, i.e. that system, which has been elected legitimately, in legitimate elections and they should be guided by the same such leaders who are the image of the people's will, and there is nothing disputed about it. What's problematic about this whole situation is that one such law, and I believe in the good intentions of the minister who wanted to advance this law, has brought nothing special new that could say that party employment will be excluded, that corruption will be prevented, that various things will be disabled. I'll give you examples based on what I'm saying. So, I don't talk tenduously, but simply, since I know very well how a public company works, because I've run such a company. I've been under the impression that in the past few years, the state hasn't gotten a glimpse of what it has, and that many public enterprises are still unknown to those given for management. For example, you have a public company that is not a budgetary firm, which has been ordered to fire seven people and has a total of 30, and of particular social interest, agricultural production. I do this injustice, i.e. I couldn't explain it to any minister or Prime Minister. I've asked the question twice. I'm afraid that when we have a situation like this right now, the new law doesn't make it a problem to choose leadership. First of all, I have to tell you, there will be few motivated people to be directors of public enterprises, since they don't run anything, but they do the supervisory board programs, and they account for what needs to be done, the state. But there's no room for great creativity, because in some way, you've, let's say, completely choked on one probably reckless move, and that's that when it comes to choosing a director, you should know about the director and the number of shoes and the teeth print and wipe it out of your throat, but nobody's looking for a program. I understand that the state has a public company, its founder, but you will allow, there are also public enterprises that are not on the budget and you are asking them to have the best possible results. Isn't it more natural that this director should submit a work programme for the period on which he should, on the basis of which it should be a key criterion based on which you will classify in that group of three, which is your will again, i.e. The commission. I don't think that's where it's been taken care of. So the form went beyond the essence. Furthermore, in the law you have in Article 12 that it is envisaged that a public undertaking can invest capital in already established capital companies with the previous consent of the founders, and Article 12 does not specify what capital companies are, in which way, under which conditions, and makes a complete space for corruption in such proceedings. We asked the amendment to change that. You didn't listen to me, but your associates will tell you what's going on. Furthermore, in article 14, you have made one serious discrimination. You allowed the City of Belgrade to establish other public enterprises, so why didn't you allow other cities? You're not the other one. It says here - except for Belgrade. (Zeljko Sertić, from town and cities. ) No, no, we'll discuss it in accordance with the amendments. That same right doesn't even have municipalities. What makes Belgrade different, and is there perhaps the story we heard at the beginning of this debate, where it is explicitly said? Why do we bring it so quickly when we haven't arranged a mechanism by which we would have one better protection of legality, more productive businesses? Because you have public enterprises where you choose a director, and all your businesses are almost ruined, and the air state supports them and spends warmly the money that separates the citizens of Serbia. We are not satisfied with the legal solutions, and we have submitted amendments. We believe that this kind of matter should be regulated much more precisely, much more serious and essentially put above its shape. So I'm asking that those who apply to the competition have an obligation to give, if they're already from that matter, they're obliged to give him a work programme, because later on, you're asking him to do it all. How do you know he'll give it to you when you choose him? I wouldn't continue to take time from other colleagues who would discuss other laws in more detail. All in all, there's little room for any debate. I just love that the citizens of Serbia are watching, and I love that we're all going to go to our midst, where we're going to be too happy with what no one knows, no one can hear anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50362	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50363	I am very glad that we have come to a serious debate in which we can discuss concrete solutions. You mentioned two things. I totally agree with you, but they're both involved in the law, and now I'm going to explain how. You have made a proposal to provide for the selection of directors and the writing of his plan and program as he sees and what the company should look like. And by the way, in the law, you're supposed to write a regulation on criteria for the selection of directors. So, within that data, we can also insert your idea. Here are the basic elements that need to be developed, which are put into each law, which is what is a condition for selecting a director. The second thing, in article 14, is well written, so legally it must be defined, it is impossible for the provisions of Article 2 of this article not to apply to the city and the City of Belgrade. So it implies that all cities in the Republic of Serbia have the right to start businesses, but also for them, they are automatically responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50364	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, although the current version of the Law on Public Enterprises was adopted a relatively short period of time in 2014, the proposed new Law on Public Enterprises brings important newspapers that seek to improve some segments both in the internal organisation of public enterprises and in their business. The importance of public enterprises stems from their absolute, or almost absolute monopoly position on the market, but such a position also requires the most responsible operations of such enterprises to start with those of the largest public enterprises in the Republic, so that those in the smallest municipalities often operate only in one place. A school example of a good public enterprise that successfully operates can serve JP Mail Serbia. It is credited with professional and organised staff headed by Mr. Milan Krkobibić. This public enterprise should be an example for many other public enterprises, which not only do not operate positively, but are at great losses. The fact is that so far, the Post Office of Serbia has paid serious funds into Serbia's budget, and this year it will pay 3.2 billion dinars. It has already applied all the principles of successful organisation, the process approach to governance, allowing, above all, a better understanding of the needs and expectations of users, but also meeting their requirements. Serbia's post office organised a business process as a nervous system for every company, linked all activities of employees to each other, and activities again with the activities of users of services and suppliers. The better these business processes are organized, the more efficient the company is. This public company recognized their business processes, understood them, defined them, analysed them, and then made them optimal and implemented them as such. This quality of business has been observed by the buyer, and shell resources are the basic value of this public enterprise. MPs are forbidden to approach ministers, but it doesn't matter. The proposal for a new Law on Public Enterprises aims to further strengthen the principle of accountability in public enterprises. Key newspapers in this law refer to the internal organisation of public enterprises. First of all, the new law provides for the abolition of existing alternative options for a single home or two-home management by introducing only one-home management. I think this is a good solution, because they first simplify the internal organisation of public enterprises, while reducing the number of management functions and positions will, on the one hand, speed up the adoption of key decisions for the work of public enterprises, while on the other hand, they will be able to distinguish the rights and obligations of the managing authority more clearly, as well as the responsibility for decision-making. Their consequences and business on public enterprises will, after these changes, be much more difficult to shift the blame for possible bad moves in business from one authority to another. The provisions relating to the arrangements of the managing authority shall be innovative, in particular those relating to qualifications, which future candidates for members of the Supervisory Board or Director will have to meet. Thus, in Article 14, in addition to the conditions currently in place for a member of the Supervisory Board, the applicant shall be accompanied by one who will require that he have at least five years of working experience in the tasks required by higher education, and a similar provision shall include a Article 25 relating to the conditions for a potential director. The selection procedure itself, the appointment of the director is much more detailed, as the precise provisions relating to the verification of the knowledge and ability of the candidate, their evaluation, should be created by an objective mechanism for selecting the best candidates and removing all potential sources of dissatisfaction that could obstruct the process. For the purposes of this amended selection rules, it shall be logical to supplement the provisions of Article 41. A bill by which a first-place candidate from the ranking list is appointed as director, eliminating the ministry's earlier discretionary right to elect a director among the three best candidates in the commission's view. On the other hand, the decision-making procedure for the director is more precisely arranged, and in particular we consider the provisions which, in the new bill, refer to the circumstances for which the director would be relieved, because they have been extended to a public undertaking that is not purposeless, receive a negative report from the auditor or do not provide a report on the work. In addition to these, the paper in the law also represents a significantly wider definition of the relationship between the public enterprise and its founder. A significant part of the bill deals with the public enterprise's business programme, its monitoring by the founders, as well as a clearer obligation to pay off profits, i.e. the payment of part of profits to Serbia, the AP or the local self-government unit that is the founder. Also, Article 14 provides that the founder cannot set up another public company that would carry out the same activity of general interest, preventing the possibility of abuse through the unnecessary establishment of more businesses that would deal with the same business and unnecessary accumulation of employees, which is the case in some local self-government units. Given these solutions, the proposal for a law on public enterprises is another step forward in improving their work, all of which we can benefit from, and the United Pensioners will support this set of laws. Thank you, but you didn't listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50366	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50367	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we heard the opening presentation of the Minister and the Committee on Business, but also here at the plenary session, and he tried to convince us that with the new amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, we will get new effects and better effects on the work of public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. I will read from this material, which we have received, in which way you have convinced us, you and professional services, that this law should be adopted. Here you say, on page 39, that colleagues and colleagues could follow this material, that according to the Agency for Business Registers, the total losses of the Republic of Serbia's 2014 economy amounted to about 131 billion dinars, four times more than in 2013 when the loss was 30 billion. So four times. That's what it says in this material. So, in the next paragraph, he says -- however, based on data from financial reports, 15 of the largest public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, in the period 2011-2014, can be concluded that their overall financial result, after tax, is significantly getting worse from year to year. So you're talking about the effects of working in this government and in the previous, so in these four years. This is what shows us, of course, to test whether to support one such bill, because only cosmetic changes are seen here, in which the Bill on Public Enterprises proposes procedures that will simply define the way of reporting, quarterly or other types, organ selection, changes that can be good, some of them are good, but I don't think it's the essence that will change this trend of decline in the quality of public enterprises' work in total... There are, of course, bright examples and good work, but the total data is what you gave us in this material. What's our proposal? Since your question was – give us a proposal, what is it that can improve the work of public enterprises? I think you've received in our amendment, first of all, in the name of the law itself. Therefore, we have proposed that the Law on Public Enterprises be "the law on public enterprises and the exercise of activity of public interest". I think the most important thing is to define what is the public interest in the Republic of Serbia, and in such a way, to define the jobs of public enterprises and the way it will achieve the goals that you most often speak of, and that is the question of corporateisation and many of the directors of public enterprises talk about it. I think it is important to say what this concept of corporateisation is and what is the key challenge of all directors in this regard. This is, first of all, the management of the capital of public enterprises, it is a responsibility to the owner of capital, which is in most cases the state of Serbia, it is a matter of relations with management, it is a question of relations with employees, I am talking about around 130,000, and that is, first of all, a question of relations with citizens who are provided with this type of service, therefore services of public interest. When we talk about public interest, we come up with key issues and issues related to some of the other laws that you have presented here, which is the question of the Law on the Land of Želizara Smederevo and the establishment of property relations that will be necessary for future privatisation or sale of Želizara Smederevo. So this actually shows the essence of insufficient efficiency, especially from 2012 to 2016, we are today in 2016. The source of this whole problem is, and you will remember many MPs here in the Assembly, the adoption of the law on amendments to the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia, 1996, which was signed by the then Deputy Prime Minister, Seselj, in that attempt to transfer to itself all ownership of local self-government and public enterprises, and then to the important Public Property Act 2008-2012, the property was returned because it is a prerequisite, and that is the reason for the questions you asked – how is it possible that there are no defined relations and land ownership in Željzara Smederevo? But what opens up further as a question, the fundamental question why did I say we should talk about public interest? First of all, define what public interest is. The public interest certainly is not to take the land, because this law you propose, here we all are today, where you take part of land and property and many public enterprises, is Mrs Natasa Vuckovic in the opening presentation and mention, and where is the question for you in what way does this affect the public interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Just as a question can be asked to write off the debts that JAT Airways heard about as a top-of-the-line company that makes huge success and a huge profit, but also thanks to a large part of the debt write-off to Belgrade Airport, 22 plus 18m euros, 40m euros write-offs to Belgrade Airport, which is mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia, indirectly all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where the issue of public interest is again raised to write off the debt. I think we are entering a very serious issue here, which is not just about the Republic of Serbia, but about the entire economic system, the global economic system. This is the issue of debt write-off management, because in this way we write off some debts, we write down some property and public property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and thus we do very unfair distribution to those who will be great winners and redistribution of wealth and the largest number of losers, which are mostly citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50368	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50369	There are things that I can agree on in principle with you, there are things that I absolutely disagree with, because you obviously do not understand in detail or understand the context of certain provisions relating to the Law on Public Enterprises, but I have to react to the information that again, for who knows which way, I don't know for what reason you and similar in the media, how something Nikola Tesla writes off, how we have a problem with such issues. Several times. The official statement was issued from the Department of Industry and I will repeat it to you now. So, when we had a 330m-euro debt company, a company that fell apart, when we created a joint venture with Etyhad, a three-year deal was made and each in that part had its share of obligations, both Etihad and the Republic of Serbia. So, here in this assembly, we passed the law, adopted rules regarding these debts, but in the new enterprise, in the three-year consolidation plan, there were obligations that the Republic of Serbia had to fulfil. We, part of our obligations, meet through the descriptions of those obligations that Nikola Tesla has, and we officially said that, and it's published and it's no secret. So, we just made an agreement and a deal with Etihad that part of our money should not be through payment in January of the total amount, but that at the end of the year we should write off part of the funds that Etihad should pay, or Er Serbia, which should pay Nikola Tesla's airport. So, it's a simple mathematical calculation and there's no fraud, it's all published, it's all public and we've explained it several times and you're again from the whole context of the story taking just one part of the way it's realized and saying – it's some kind of fraud. I'm asking for the public not to do it anymore. It's simply not in the interest of anyone here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50370	Thank you, Mr. Minister. There's a word on what basis, Mr. Kiric, you're not mentioned? (Goran Ciric, from the scene: I think the interpretation is wrong. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50371	Mr. Minister, nobody here talked about fraud, I was talking about the principles of redistribution of claims, as we talked about land, which is owned, and that's where we're going to agree, many public enterprises, and now we have a bill that, in some way, enrolls that property on the Iron. Furthermore, it's okay how it was done with that contract and about the write-down of claims and what the government did with Etihad. And of course, it was your right, but I have asked the question of justice as we have asked the question of justice of the write-off of debts and of Serbia's towards NIS from the republican budget affecting the financing of the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, but it affects all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not always use natural gas as energy, but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia participate in this debt write-off. I was just talking about this big, moral dilemma, if you will. And the expert dilemma. Whether there are rights both in how and how carefully we have to manage the write-off, because we are unfair to the majority of Serbia's citizens, and that individuals or a larger group of people are essentially winners. And big world minds talk about it, and they're thinking about it, and I think we have the right to ask ourselves these questions and we're looking for the best possible answers, and we can only do it through this kind of dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50372	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50373	If you've already opened the topic, I'll continue it. It's not just a question of how we're gonna write off these debts today. The question is, how did these debts come to be? How did 330m euros in debt come about by the former JAT company? How did hundreds of millions of euros in debt in Serbia come about? As we created the company, the former Elektroprivreda of Serbia with 14 companies, with over 300 directors, 300 secretaries, 300 drivers and all. In a year's time, we've brought these 14 companies down, centralized on two companies. Tens and dozens of directors lost their jobs, if they had lost their jobs, we don't need so many directors. So we do things that are consistent and that have only one clear goal, in 2014, I gave you that information. We had guarantees and debts to public enterprises 2.2% of our GDP. That's a hell of a lot of money. Our government's plan is to reduce to 0.5 by 2018, that's almost five times the reduction, and in doing so, all the obligations we have to make and pay. And we did it on the basis of fiscal consolidation on a part of the commitments last December to pay off and that we can get into other arrangements. So we haven't made those debts in the last year or two, but the debts have been inherited. Again, I said several times, I didn't accuse you directly or anyone. For the past 30 years, we've had total chaos in Serbia's economic life, but don't deny what we're doing today. We clean things up, set the system differently, weigh public enterprises, and are an important part of economic life to allow the economic sector to start working in the right way. Don't just replace the thesis and get cheap political points based on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50374	Thank you. The word has a distinguished colleague, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50375	I would like to thank the Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished guests of this high house, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and allow me to express my great satisfaction that today we are discussing two significant draft laws concerning the area of public health and the areas of infectious diseases. The proposals of the Law to protect the population from infectious diseases and the Law on Public Health are from the point of view of the need to harmonise our legislation and important documents of the World Health Organization further on our good path to ensure that citizens have the protection of life and health in a way that is in line with the highest standards on one hand. On the other hand, when it comes to legislative matter in the area of health, it is always important that all those attitudes that provide expertise, humanity and economics because of economic power be the subject on which we will all agree. It is my great pleasure that all my colleagues and the Committee of Health and, of course, from the parliamentary group that I belong to and all the citizens and colleagues I have spoken to express a great degree of satisfaction that, even though the dynamics of the work so intensely these two laws are today ahead of us. What exactly is new in the law regarding infectious diseases? We talked about it a few months ago, I could say, in a very significant fight against those who deal with active attitudes and the profession is, of course, on the parliamentary benches here and among us, a good solution. We had amendments and additions to this law, but what is important is that the International Health Regulation, which is very precise when it comes to infectious diseases, was not taken into account, nor was that possible. We, in fact, have fully agreed with this law with all the views of this important document, of course other EU acts. The National Centre is actually a completely new institute and what is important, it is that the appointment of the Institute of Public Health from the Minister to this significant entity, the National Centre, we have an institution now very concretely informing and informing the World Health Organization, i.e. it exchanges information with the World Health Organization for the occurrence of infection, epidemics and other significant problems in this area, which concern international health. This is essentially the most important newspaper in the law, which was normally brought more than ten years ago and which was indeed life and clinical images and methodology of diagnosis and treatment surpassed in many ways and could not present everything that this complex problem covers. What's also good about this law is that it now predicts that in the next 12 months, sublaws, which regulate specific segments, will be passed and that it will actually specify all those measures that are quite general today, but very significantly given for this area. Before the National Centre informs, or exchanges information with the World Health Organisation and various professional instances of Europe, it is important to adopt a plan of activity under this law that has an integral character. Health alone is not simply possible to imagine in solving such complex problems. Health care, the Ministry of Health, health workers, health institutions, all associates helping to implement health programmes without other ministries and without an action plan and its realisation, which will cover both other ministries and other significant entities, cannot solve any of these complex problems. This law is a step further in improving the quality of our citizens' lives precisely because of it. As for public health, let me remind, especially healthcare professionals who may know that, there are 170 different regulations in Serbia at this point that regulate different issues from the domain of public health. We will agree that, despite the last time we passed the law in these benches in 2009, there have been many international meetings that have actually drawn out certain documents and certain public health procedures, which we are simply obliged to accept, and which, on the other hand, address particularly sensitive issues of old, poor, refugees, so all of our fellow citizens who are truly in a position to consider their public health issues in particular. There are ten areas that are regulated by the 2009 Lisbon acts, acts that have been adopted in Malta where the Health Ministers' Meeting was the largest number of European countries and where the health status of all policies has been declared, i.e. the "Health 20-20" document, which in practice means that supervision of health, health risks, health protection, health promotion, disease prevention, human resources management, structures and financial resources, as well as the mobilisation of health, research based on hard documents and solid facts will be simply one future in the domain of public health that we will have to observe as citizens, because it is the promotion of health that involves and a higher level of information for those people who, both professionally and indirectly, have no direct contact with knowledge in the field of health. It is really important to say that this law will make another significant, i.e. a framework for another significant change. The institutions for public health in our country in recent years have simply had the character of an institution that has a competition. It is unacceptable, for example, that the regularity of drinking water, air quality, the suppression of epidemics is realised through who will be more favourable or simpler or more financially justified to offer their services and will do so. The State is simply obliged to place this segment of healthcare organisation at the level of obligation and to eliminate any competition in relation to public health institutions, and it is precisely these segments. I would indeed have the need and as someone who quite knows this problem that all the participants in the work on this legislative activity and the text that is most sincerely thanked us for having the strength to hire experts, representatives of significant institutions in our country, engaging and the non-governmental sector, in fact, all those who had the will to, in December of the month, in the period when it was possible to suggest certain changes and additions, we had the strength to discuss these two significant laws in these days, and I think that this is really something that the Ministry of Health can have a sense of full satisfaction and professional satisfaction. Of course we'll vote for these laws and everyone else on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50376	I thank Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50377	Dear fellow MPs, respected resignation ministers, the Turnover Movement will not vote for these laws... The emissaries are getting it. ) The turnaround movement will not vote for these laws. A twist won't vote for these laws. We will vote in favour of several conventions that are routine conventions that should cloud a recently voted convention, or agreement with NATO. Today we have the Public Business Act on the agenda. It's nice that you ministers smile, it's nice that you smile, and everything's lighter for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50378	Will you finally be on the subject, not to throw the Minister, Mr. Veselinovic, but to finally come to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50379	So, one set of laws concerning businesses, one section concerning health care, although of course it has nothing to do with transparency and if it has nothing to do with MPs, Serbian citizens know what is being voted here and if it is the laws that come before the MPs overnight without serious public debate, maybe they have one similarity and it may be important that Serbia's citizens hear what it is today. The Law on Public Enterprises of the Mecca for Party Employment, and they are in any case a good pre-election maneuver of the party in power, not to mention it, so as not to cause replication. The law is a good illustration of what the government is doing in fact, and as it treats citizens, a government that employs over 50,000 party personnel. During that time other people were out of work. Yesterday I was in Banat, Žitište, in Agroziv, Mr. Minister, who laughs sweetly at it. In 2014, he had 750 employees. It was taken over by a public company, you well know which, under your authority, and the number from 750 employees rose to 1,500. You know how many employees there are today, after two years? Zero. Zero, Mr. Sertice, who laughs so sweetly at it. I talked to the company's employees, who owned a public company, and they don't have any health care. Mr. Lonchar's gone, I won't say a harsh word. So, health insurance doesn't have, 1,500 people lost their jobs, they can't even be treated. Even those who now hold there, guard against the thieves of that hall, have no chance of being treated, Mr. Sertico. Ask Mr. Lonchar why they don't have health insurance. They are not the only ones, Mr Sertic, that are thousands in Serbia, both in the restructuring and others that you have destroyed by your disastrous policy. Mr. Sertic, today I spoke to a very serious businessman from the United States of Serbia. You know what he says? He'd stop after Guinea. Serbia is the country with the largest brain drain in the world, not counting Syria and the countries that are at war. Our experts are leaving, Mr. Sertice, the most qualified people. You drove them away, Mr. Sertice. You drove them away with your ignorance and incompetence. By the blind obedience of Alexander Vukic, you have brought the land to the brink of this...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50380	Mr. Veselinović, will you finally, after four minutes and 20 seconds, start talking about the subject and simply forget about insulting the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50381	... that we have a country where people leave, young people who leave, and you bring the Law on Public Business. Your party colleagues are making a survey these days -- which is the most popular party, and if they say – SNS, they get a voucher from... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50382	Mr. Veselinović, time's up. Please, I warned you several times to talk about the subject. Your discussion has narrowed down to insulting the minister, which is very ugly, Mr. Veselinovic. You are a National MP in the National Assembly, ministers have come to explain the law and have not come to insult them, especially in the way you do it. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50383	They reiterate that I have come here with very important laws in front of you MPs, explained to you almost every member of these laws and defined what our goals were, directions and asked MPs to participate in a constructive debate, to get suggestions on how to make these laws better and better. After this presentation of MPs, I believe and believe that the opinion of most citizens is that he is in his way of treating us here who are sitting in this bench, as well as you fellow MPs, in the best way discredited both himself and the politics he represents, because the contradiction of words, descriptions and use of all the words that are inappropriate to explain these laws, and especially that at the end of all this, I have not been able to conclude what it is that we should do in our law to fix or edit and to improve that the law would be better and better quality. I'll go back to his first sentence he said and I think maybe in the best way he defined how good some laws are. He said -- this is a good pre-election maneuver of the Serbian Progressive Party. Well, if someone did the law as a pre-election maneuver, so it's the law, people, we're not changing it after three days, it's not just a sentence in public. This is the law that we came out of, part of the law that we, as a political party a few years ago and entered power, a law that was defined and promised by the prime minister in this Assembly in front of you in our speech and today lies before you and we are talking today about the Law on Public Enterprises, where we have committed and agreed to arrange businesses to be in office of the state, in office of the economy and in the function of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50384	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. Why do you think, Mr. Veselinovic, you have the right to a replica? [[Janko Veselinović, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Because the minister... ) In no word did he mention the name Janko Veselinović, nor did he mention you in any negative context. Mr. Minister even explained what I tried to explain to you in five minutes, that you didn't say one word about the law and that we didn't hear anything other than insulting the minister, the Serbian Progressive Party and this high house, and you insult Serbian citizens, Mr. Veseinovic. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50385	Thank you. I would like to say that I strongly support today's proposed legislative solutions on today's agenda. But I also want to say that I listened very carefully to the previous speaker, his discussion and his concerns about party employment and the campaign for department, depolitisation and all sorts of things were there. I can't help feeling like it's one thing, you'll let me tell you, replace the thesis. There is a people's saying. Now I will not do as I please. So here the previous speaker advocates the departmentation, by the way, declares that it is against this bill, and we propose a law that sets up the department in the clearest possible way. Then he's against it. So now I won't do what I want. Come on, make a deal once, whether you're for the detachment or not? Let's see what the fight looked like in practice, that is, for the departmental procession by the previous speaker. Accordingly, I have a few questions, and this is on whose proposal where he was appointed president of the Management Board of the Public Communal Enterprise "The Road" in Novi Sad? Whose proposal was that? Party, maybe aliens? Who suggested him to that function? Who suggested him to be CEO of Toplan's office in Novi Sad? Party or aliens some, or this businessman from America, what does counterpart Nikolic say? Who suggested him as an assistant secretary of the province for science and technology, a party or aliens? Everything he did in his professional career, he worked on the party's proposal and it's not a flat-rate rating, it's official biography of the previous speaker. I know who suggested it. It was submitted by the client. I don't want to mention which party it is, you all know what party it is. It is a party that has established the most fearsome partocracy, the most frightening form of partocrat and party employment and particisation in general. It's a party whose time the authorities and cleaning lady had to have a membership card at the time of the ruling party, including the judge. It is a party that is synonym in Serbia for party employment and you all know which party it is. It has now divided into several aggregates, and the previous speaker has joined the party in the meantime, and has established an NGO, an association of citizens, but will not be able to fool Serbian citizens. This bill, which certainly caused the most interest today, therefore, the proposal for a law on public enterprises is, I say, in the best possible function and economy and state, i.e. Serbian citizens. The overall results of the business of public enterprises, especially when it comes to local public enterprises, about the local level of government, including those headed by the previous speaker, are not great. Or, least of all, I'll use that word, or the assessment the minister used on the board, is problematic. So, this is clear, that is, the losses that have been made so far clearly speak for it and clearly say that the last moment is for us to get in the way of such business. Public enterprises must stop being, however difficult it may be, no matter how difficult and painful it sounds, public enterprises must stop being enterprises that carry out some social peace or that deal with some social policy. I have to stress the intensity of reducing state participation in public enterprises, which you also spoke about today, Mr. Minister. So, the isolation of public enterprises, the corporate level of the organisation, or the establishment of corporate corporate corporate governance, is necessary if we want to achieve the objectives that we have declared. So, what is very important is that members of the Supervisory Board will have to be expert on the work in the future. And when I say professional for this job, I mean professionally and essentially, not only in a formal sense, not only in terms of mere satisfaction of the form, so to meet a certain degree of expertise, but I repeat, essentially professionally to do the job, and not as was the case in the JKP "The Road" in Novi Sad. It is also necessary to highlight the newspaper, i.e. the removal of the Deputy Director-General's post. This in an unequivocal way shows that it focuses and centralises corporate governance on the director, including by giving the right to elect members of the Executive Board. I would also point out, and I think that this may be the most significant moment to strengthen one significant segment relating to the establishment of an obligation to submit, 15 days after the adoption of the budget, its annual business plan, i.e. one word, checks, i.e. an efficient model of the control of the business of a public undertaking aimed at introducing public enterprises into a normal and sustainable framework. I would not repeat everything that all other colleagues today have pointed out as the most significant, but for all these reasons I would like to call for support in the voting day of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50386	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, Dr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nišli, here, all day long we have been listening to the praises of the congregation's majority on the quality of the proposed laws. For a short period of time, Mr. Minister Sertić will pay attention to only two laws. First of all, on the proposal of a law on public enterprises that you so kindly defend and explain. I will remind citizens that this is a change in the law that was passed in 2013 and that it is announced as something that will be a turning point in the functioning of public enterprises, that it will reduce party employment, that it will be more transparent, that it will be more efficient for public enterprises, that everything will be much different than it was before. And, here, four years after the government of the assembly majority in local public enterprises and the republican public enterprises is a fact, and that's what citizens know, there's no need to convince each other here whether or not so, that only with a party book can you get a job in a public company. Public enterprises are a debt generator, that public enterprises take loans for liquid liquidity, and these are facts. What you are proposing now and what the congregation majority will absolutely adopt, as well as everything that comes from the government, because the congregation majority by my deep conviction all that the government proposes accepts as absolute truth. A few days ago, we had a chance to see what it was like for half the session to change its mind, so national pensions or national funding, the merit of funding our artists from misrepresentation and rejection, to go to glorification and praise. So this law will experience that everyone praises him and is absolutely adopted and will be just one of the post-election campaigns that follows us, promising people that everything will be better and different after the election with the help of this law. Dear gentlemen, the honourable congregation majority, you have had this law since 2013, and as you apply it and as it has lived, people on the ground say, that is what citizens feel best. Without SNS membership, it is impossible to get a job in a public enterprise. Public enterprises from year to year do not burden the budget any republican, whether local employees of certain parties at the expense of what they should provide as a service to citizens. And as long as you run this country, that's how it's gonna be in public enterprises. How do we vote? Probably, since you will refuse all our amendments, we will vote against these laws with the hope that after the election we will be able to change and apply them and compare them to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50388	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50389	Gentlemen, by 2014, you have made a debt in public enterprises of 2.2% of GDP, so you calculate how many millions and millions of euros are in charge. No single guarantee, no single credit to any public enterprise is given to liquid liquidity. Again, in 2014, the total amount of guarantees, debts for public enterprises with Serbia's budget, i.e. in Serbia's GDP, was 2.2%. The government's plan is to keep that level at 0.5 levels by 2018. So almost five times reduced by having all the obligations that exist have to be paid off. And about what was done in the previous period and how the Serbian government deals with public enterprises, here's just one piece of information, right now on the EPS case. Since July 1st last year, EPS instead of 14 companies only function two. So, a large number of directors and all those services followed by all the great directors have been shortened, reduced. Over 300 directors are almost decimated. And as for the business results of the 2015 plan, it was that EPS lost 21.2 billion dinars. These were the results inherited from that period. The result we expect, which will be released in a few days because data is still gathering that the EPS will have a positive score of over two and a half billion dinars in 2015. So nearly 24 billion dinars of positive results were made in a year based on savings, based on better management, based on centralised public procurement, based on everything that was done in the previous year. It's publicly available data and no one can say it's not true and it's not the results of this particular government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50390	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Babić, from the site: Replication of SNS. ) Here you go, replica, MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50391	I, Mr. Chairman, will direct, since all this party employment, the appointment of members in the supervisory and management committees, the political setting, the party's deployment, is about as per the words of the previous speaker, before that was all so transparent. So honest, so responsible, that I just don't know, our roses blossomed at every turn. But now I'm going to ask an esteemed colleague what is the run for Mr Dragoslav Šumarac and Mr Bozidar Djelic in the Serbian Building Directorate Management Board? What if you don't join the party? What is Mr Dusan Petrovic's candidate on the JP Serbia's Steering Board? There was no party or employment or posting, only someone seems to want to have a selective memory, so he only remembers what answers him. What did a colleague, Miroslav Marinkovic, place in the board of directors of Serbia? What if not party membership? What did Biserko Zivkovic place on the board of directors JP Official Messenger? What if it wasn't related to the president then with the Prime Minister? Then what are you talking about? Well, do you know what would happen if she were Mr. Lonchar's wife somewhere on the board of directors? That Mr. Arsic's wife is somewhere on the board? Well, scandal, a couple of excellencies. I think everyone here would hold press conferences, but the ex-Prime Minister's wife, by you and your system, could be on the board of directors in this case, the official messenger. So when you talk about the past, please look in the mirror first before you criticize anyone. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50392	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Marinkovic, are you picking up? (Miroslav Marinkovic: Replica. I'm mentioned by name and last name. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Now you will hear. ) So, just a moment, Mr. Marinkovic, several names and names were mentioned. If you claim that, and I see that Mr. Babic agrees that he mentioned your name and name... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Who is chairing here you or him? ) You've recognized yourself, it's not a problem, you'll get, even though it's not in a negative context, you'll get... (Marko Djurisic, from the site: How is it not in a negative context? ) Mr. Djurishic, please, what does it look like that you are now breaking the Rules of Procedure, insulting and acting like one, what does it look like? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What does this look like? ) You do not allow me to finish the sentence and to say, regardless of what I believe to be the chairman, it is my right to assess, that Mr Marinkovic's name was mentioned that he was on the board of directors there, it was not expressed in a negative context. He just listed the statistics of people who were at that time on boards, but regardless, for me as chairman, it's enough to mention your name and name, you have the right to replication. That's all I wanted to say. You jumped right on me, Mr. Djurishic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50393	It may not be mentioned in a negative context, but I have never been on the board of directors of the "Serbian State". Therefore, I demand and expect Mr. Babic to apologize to me for making the lies he can do me harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50394	Mr. Marinkovic, your last name is quite common, and we also have a colleague Marinkovic in the large hall of the National Assembly. If a Mr. Marinkovic is mentioned, it doesn't necessarily mean it's you. If you claim that you were not a member of the board of directors, Mr Babic mentioned Marinkovic's name... (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the place: I name and last name. ) Are you saying no Marinkovic in Serbia is called like you? I can see even that you had no right to reply, since I suppose then, if you weren't on some board of directors, since Mr Babic didn't mention the MPs, now a joke aside, he mentioned a lot of names, and a lot of names were also mentioned by Marinkovic, perhaps your name, but it doesn't necessarily mean he thought of you. As far as I know, there are only a few Marinkovics here. Thank you. Mr. Babico, you will again, you are right, your name and name are mentioned. Here you go. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Bradich? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: He mentioned me. Your name and name are not mentioned, no. (Blagoje Bradic, from the place: "Are you sure?" I don't think so. (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: Ask Mr Babic. I know you were the director there, but I don't think he mentioned you. I don't think Mr. Babic meant you, that you were the director in that line of party employment. [[Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Why don't I get a replica?]] (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Ask Mr Babic twice called me. I don't think you got the right to a replica, didn't mention your name and name. He said, for the sake of accuracy, Mr. Bradic, Mr. Babic, said "the previous speaker", and the previous speaker was the minister, so I have no way of giving you a replica, and your name is not mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50395	I, Mr. Chairman, will thank Mrs. Komic for her very poor manner of gestureing her hands, pointing to the SNS parliamentary group, personally to me, but well, that's already the DS and the dictionary, and now she was also a symbol of insult, so that I leave it more to my distinguished colleague, Komic, on my conscience. As for what I said earlier, I don't speak casually, look at the government's solution number 119-2369/2004. of 1 April 2004 He signed Miroljub Labus. See also the government's 1 April 2004 solution, which includes Dusan Petrovic's name, also since 1 April 2004. Look at the government's solution, also since 1 April 2004, signed by Miroljub Labus, then vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and you will see the name Biserka Zivkovic. It seems that everyone, and also the government's solution since 25 November 2004, where the name Miroslav Marinkovic is mentioned, unless it's a colleague Miroslav Marinkovic here, I'll give him an apology in advance, but I don't speak casually, I see that someone is having so much fun, it seems that all Dušani Petrovici, Biserke Zivkovic, various Bozidari Djelici all have doubles and not them at all. They're other people. No, they didn't sleep on their aunt's couch, they didn't get rich here, they didn't ruin it, no, it's some doppelgangers out there, some very unknown people out there, and they didn't do anything wrong to this country until 2012. I'm not speaking casually, I'm speaking on the basis of documents, and the fact that someone's solution to the government and everything that's being presented here is actually the reason that in a very bad way it applies, even if the hands are related to the SNS parliamentary group, it says more... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50396	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Stop him if you dare. Have you finished, Mr. Djurishic? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: "I beg your pardon?" Are you done insulting me, throwing me away? Why are you nervous? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, I am relaxed. ) Smile a little, don't be nervous, don't throw it all the time, insult it, I don't know you, Mr. Djurishic. And Mr. Marinkovic, you see that I was right after all, that it is now, we have a solution to the government, you claim that it is not you, so I was right that it may be another Miroslav Marinkovic. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the place: There is a home number, you can check it out. What you're saying is that Mr. Babic has drawn a solution to the government. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I can't draw, I can just write.) No, I was just saying that you were going to do it on purpose. (Marco Djurisic: Would you like to chair here? Rules of Procedure. (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: What is this, a circus? I think it's a circus for Mr. Bogdanovic if Mr. Djurisic throws it all the time, if you throw it all the time, I think it's a circus. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Mr. Babic too.) ) (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: It is not true that I throw. That's why I'm gonna take three minutes off. Because you're making a circus, Mr. Bogdanovic, your MP group that keeps throwing both you and Mr. Djurisic. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Is this a break now?]] [[Gordana Comić, from the place: Is this a break now?]] That's why I'm gonna take a three-minute break. And Mrs. Comic throws it too, so Mr. Babic comes in, so we're gonna have to take a break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go, Dr. Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50398	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, I think that today we have really important laws to take seriously and give quality arguments, especially what I really care about professionally are two laws within the framework of health care, above all a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases. I would like to commend, first of all, the Ministry of a Quality Proposal, which our law has brought into line with European standards, but has given the expert public the opportunity to give their opinion, incubate their solutions. What's the significance of this law is we're all witnesses. We live in a fast time where epidemic threats are very real and can be catastrophic. There's all kinds of viruses mentioned. There's a lot of travel. Therefore, I would like to stress that this law, especially today, has great importance. The law is ensnared, clear, decadently treating every point and what is very important is that it brings general measures, special and extraordinary measures. But I would like to give one suggestion within these general measures to take care of the quality of land, the quality of water, the quality of food, to bring special attention. It also introduces responsibilities, responsibilities of certain institutions, people, citizens, and local self-government. I am truly witnessing that we had a terrible situation in the nearby municipality of Tutin, last year, where six, seven months of garbage was not taken away, where the city was buried with garbage and where it was infected and water. We also had a few dead cattle. There was an extremely difficult situation, which could escalate and cause a really serious epidemic. Therefore, this law also proposes solutions in the area of punishment and the implementation of the policy itself, so I ask you to pay attention to these options, these situations that have been happening. Unfortunately, we in Novi Pazar, too, had a similar situation during the U.S. government. Thanks to the Ministry of Health and, of course, to us as partners, we in Novi Pazar today have a good condition in health care, we also established a Public Health Office. And this law partially treats and hands over certain responsibilities and responsibilities to this Office. The Institute has started to work, it has been operational and we will indeed have quality health care and thanks to this decision of this particular ministry and this very minister on the very ground. We of the SDPS will support all these laws, and with the special piety of these laws that care and improve health care on the ground. We had another illogicality here, which I'll end up with. We had a mandatory vaccination law here, so that was his name. We have come to the situation that only three MPs from the United States voted against such a law, which was absolutely incomprehensible, both from the point of view of practice and from the point of view of politics. We've come to the point that a whimsical policy doesn't really care about its citizens, and that's how it votes. I want to conclude that we, both in local and central government, are going to make a real effort to raise the level of health care by supporting both these laws and concrete solutions. In that sense, we will vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50399	Thank you, Mr. Butcher. Mrs. Komic, you have the right to a replica, you are mentioned, but I would ask you to close this topic that was before the break in this way, after Mr. Bačevac's speech, but if you insist, I will give you my word, you have the right to reply. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50400	In order to demonstrate how well-willed is fit with goodwill, I give up the right to the replica you give me under your discretionary right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50401	I thank you for that, Mrs. Comic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I would like the minister to be there. The minister is in the O.R. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I would be the authorised minister for the topic I want to talk about. And you want a very special minister who's acceptable to you right now? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I don't think that's impossible. I have a few very important questions. I understand, Miss Jerkov. We have a minister. He immediately felt your desire for his presence. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50402	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Thank you, Mr. Sertić, for coming back, because I have a few very important questions about these laws and I ask you to answer these questions in a very serious way. The 2013 law provides for more or less of the same things we've heard about today that this law will be passed, so please just answer me. Since the law required competitions for directors in public enterprises to be held by 30 June 2013, how many competitions were held in public enterprises? How many public companies haven't had competitions, and why haven't these competitions been conducted? In other words, who is to blame that these competitions have not been implemented, is it the authority that has not been in power for a year and a half, is it some reformer, Miroslav Miskovic, mercenaries, traitors, those who hate their country, I don't know what we've already heard, conspiracy against the prime minister, etc? So, tell us, who's to blame for not having competitions for directors in all public enterprises, but still having directors who were obviously placed there on political grounds? Secondly, why didn't they stop uncontrollable sponsorships and donations in these public enterprises? These were all the objectives of this law, it was the best law in the world. We hear from you today that in 2014 you found something scandalous, which you obviously have left since 2012 by Minister Vujovic, for a short while Radulovic, then Igor Mirović. However, you found something that your predecessors from the SNS left you, as you say, was scandalous. Did this Law on Public Enterprises prevent different godmothers, friends, relatives from being the directors of these public enterprises? What do you do in a situation where an interested investor who has all the permits of the competent ministries and the positive opinion of all state authorities, the director of a public enterprise prevents investing in a single country, which is, by chance, the godfather of the country's prime minister? So, how is this new law going to stop it now? Why couldn't the 2012 law do that? You're always talking about some big restructuring of the EPS. Please tell us how many executives are out of a job in that EPS? They lost some jobs, were they fired, were the others, just different names? What's the difference? How many people are fired from the EPS when you talk about this big rationalization? Generally, do you even know what rationalization looks like in public enterprises? You've pointed out local public enterprises as the biggest generators of the problem. You're probably familiar with the Waterworks case in Novi Sad, we're fellow citizens. There's an office of directors, Mr. Sertic, who has 18 employees. The Department of Marketing in Vodavod has 25 employees. The water line this year is reducing the number of employees by 50. None of these people will lose their jobs, but they will be left with people working on the maintenance of the water and sewerage network, which will be likely after that to engage via some different services per contract. Do you really think that this problem is being solved in the way that people in the administration should be dealt with or simply, people who are placed politically remain and remain and remain, and those who really do the work of the public enterprise remain unemployed? When it comes to this other Iron Law, what about Esmark, Mr Sertic? How did we get to Vucic before it was over with anything he wished to be an Esmark, and then it started, and then it ended unfavorably, we suddenly came to a secret contract with some mysterious management of Esmark, whom, I will remind you, Mr Sertic, announced that in six months he would bring Jelizar to work positively? When asked – what happened to that promise? We've heard it's a coup against the state. What are the salaries of those men who run the ironworks, Mr. Sertice? Where do people pay your taxes? Since we can hear that their salaries are up to 500,000 euros a month, all together, and the question is, will the Public Sector Payments Act at all apply to public enterprises, or will it normally refer to educators, doctors, those people who do their job honestly, and those in public companies will still have incredible incomes and businesses in a very untransparent way? When you speak, Mr. Sertice, please give me answers from the present time. Don't talk about what you found, because you found what Vujovic left you, and Vujovic found what Dinkic left him that you later appointed as finance minister. Don't like Mr. Vukic, as he says, we shouldn't talk about the past, and he doesn't think we should just talk about his past, and when other things are just about the past and the story. Answer those questions, if you can concentrate on today, or what you're going to do, rather than what someone else did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50403	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50404	I thank you for your observation, that is, your last comment on how I should respond, because if I were to start talking about what we found and what we should have done, then I would have to ask – what is it that a decade behind has not been done in public enterprises and why public enterprises did not have the law under control, which could allow state control, how has been employed and how has it functioned in these companies and what has happened? I said I didn't want to talk about it, but you reminded me to tell you what we're doing. The first answer to your question, which is how the selection of directors will be defined, in the previous law it was not so defined that since 30 June 2013, competitions could be announced, but it was not accurate until they had to be completed. We have now put in this law that a year to complete the process of appointment of directors is a year. So that's one brand-new commitment, one other view of politics and the attitude of public enterprises and politics. We risk putting someone who doesn't want their results, to the extent that the government and the state expect him to realize it, but that's why we've introduced a number of other measures that we can do with certain penalties or withdrawals, by suspending directors for not fulfilling obligations and jobs to punish him and thus re-establish the possibility of someone coming into that position and doing better. You asked for sponsorship, I really can't give you any answers about what happened from 2000 to 2013, but I can tell you what this government did, from the moment I became Minister and when I took over the Ministry of Economy in September 2014. We've passed a 19-point rule where we've limited public enterprises and defined very precisely what business plan they have to do for 2015, we've banned the purchase of passenger cars without the government's consent, we've asked for a reduction in sponsorship contracts by more than 70%, we've limited the number of labor contracts that can be, we've reduced the number of employees. So 19 very clear, precise points. The government adopted the Regulation, delivered to all public enterprises, all public enterprises were granted a permit on that basis, when all those items were checked, then they went to the government. Based on that plan, we got a projected 35 billion cuts in costs than it was in the previous period. For the first nine months of last year, compared to the costs planned, 13% are less costs than were defined in business plans, and here's what day we'll have pooled data for the whole year, so it'll be very easy to figure out how many businesses had the opportunity to spend and how to work. As for the hardware and the public of the contract, I'll repeat everything I've said several times. We have all sworn here that we will speak, not only the truth, but that we will work in accordance with the law and that we will respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 45. The Competition Protection Act explicitly writes – protected data do not have the property of information of public importance within the meaning of a law governing free access to information of public importance. So, Mr. Sabic asked me as minister to deliver the contract we have with the HPC company Transparency of Serbia. This law obliges me not to do so, because the Competition Protection Commission, which this Assembly has declared, therefore, not the Government, has not chosen the Commission, but has chosen the Commission for the Protection of Competition, professional people reading contracts, has access to all data from both the GHK and the GHK companies. They decided that the contract, as it is called here, falls under protected data. There's a written solution. If I, as a minister, have a written solution that certain data are a secret, who gives me the right to go out, or to give someone that information publicly to the public? Let's once define this public story within the framework of real life. Nowhere in the world, nowhere in the EU, where we had under Article 73. The SSP obligation to introduce this law, there is no public of that kind of data that we talk about here when a Competition Protection Commission defines that certain data are excluded from the Access Act of Public Information. Don't change the subject, don't replace the thesis, but let's talk specifically about the data. I don't know the data you said about the number of plumbing employees, the sewers. You have a town hall, so there you should definitely talk about it, but I've explained to you exactly what we've done with this law all to prevent all these unprofessional and irresponsible jobs, mostly locals, no matter who, in which city, in which place and in which way. Our obligation is to define policy towards public enterprises, to be on a professional level, and we do it, and we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50405	Thank you. Mrs. Jerkov, you've only got answers to questions, so you have no right to replication. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50406	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I cannot be surprised at the short memory of some colleagues or the insolence of some colleagues from the former regime. They criticized, and set up ministers for the first job of the people, appointed as directors of public enterprises and the institution of the people whose first job was. Their minister in the shade, Šumarac, wrote the law to have additional incomes he still enjoys today. That's how they ruled Serbia. When it comes to short memories, I am glad that we now have a law that will regulate relations on the acquisition of property rights on land and "Sertida" facilities. There's been a constant mention of a contract with a company now running the Sertida business. Mr. Minister, I'm glad this law is in the process for a number of reasons. We're finally going to many of the illegal actions that took place during the DOS government led by the DS to put an end to it. They promised and now they promise transparency and the public to work and ask and ask questions – who manages, what is his fee, etc. Mr. Minister, do you know that Sartid was privatized in "Sablja" during the state of emergency, without the transfer of the National Assembly sessions? Mr. Minister, do you know that the local court is responsible for the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings "Sartida" The Court of Commerce in Pogorevec? Mr. Minister, do you know that the DOS government led by the Democratic Party and has now moved millions of their clones from the local jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce to Pogorevec and transferred them to Belgrade? You know why? In order to secretly sign the transfer agreement "Sartida" to "US Steel", because no judge at the Probation Court in Pozarevec wanted to sign"? The colleague laughs, but after the signing of the contract and the completion of the bankruptcy procedure over "Sartida", so now the private company is no longer in bankruptcy, then the director of the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation write off the debts of "Sartida" or "US Steel" when he bought the company, bought the debts, retroactively wrote it down according to the following banks, "Invest Bank", "Belgrade Bank", and JU Bank, amounting to $1 billion and $200 million. It's a little over 3% of GDP today. They had yet to take the state to pay off Sartida's debts to the Austrian bank, Austria Bank, some German banks and other foreign creditors worth $350m. That's another 1% of GDP and a little more. Let's get back to that famous Er-Serbia deal. Whose is Er-Serbia? It's not "Etihadova". It belongs to this government and to this state and before "Etihad" came and before we had a strategic partner, we had a loser, and "Nikola Tesla" had no profit dinar. Now they're crying and crying, which instead of zero we have profit and part of that profit we use to pay back the debts they made. How much does a handkerchief need for such crocodile tears? But in the Sartida case, their rights of concern for the state and citizens are seen because, after the privatisation of Sartida and bankruptcy, they had to write off the following, public enterprises, claims for Sartida or US Steel, and that of Elektroprivreda Serbia, the Railways of Serbia and the Danube Insurance. That's how they ruled. Now they can mention years, the problem with "Sartida" is next – someone bought it for small money, exploited it while it suits him. We took everything we had before to get it back, and when it didn't suit him anymore, because he bought it for free, he gave it back to us for one euro. When we add up supplies of raw materials, supplies of finished products, we subtract 35m euros for how much Sartid was sold and subtract for the loans we found in Sartid, we get exactly zero. Up to a zero that is not included in a billion and $200 million write-off of domestic banks, $350m of foreign banks, which were returned by Serbian citizens, and demand for EPS, Railways and Danube Insurance. That's how they run the country. They didn't have a problem with you fighting for the second year that no company in restructuring goes into bankruptcy, but that you try to find a strategic partner. They didn't even blink. The DOS regime, led by the Democratic Party, did not even blink to put Sartid into bankruptcy, to make one such marifetteluk, where the state lost 4.5% of GDP. Now I wonder why all this concern for state-owned enterprises when they're no longer in power, because they showed how they care about them while they're in power. When it comes to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which I'm not saying that the reference rate was higher during DOS, because they ran it a little bit, Kostunica, a little DS, I don't know one "s" was somehow being lost, added, taken away, as when it was due, and I don't see the difference between them, the interest before the adoption of this bill was lower than the National Bank's reference interest during their government on debt. You know how they calculated it, 0.2% of the day-to-day comfort method. To explain what that means, I'm counting 0.2% on your debt today, and then I'm assigning it to the principal tomorrow, and I'm cramming it again. That's how Serbian businesses shut down and choked the Serbian economy. Now they won't support the law where the interest on tax is 4.25% based on the reference interest rate of the National Bank. When you have such a low reference, the interest rate of the National Bank is the result of how many foreign and domestic investors have confidence in your economy and state. That's why they could only dream to 4.25% than they raised it to 16% so banks and they could make as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50407	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, dear ministers, I don't know if after Mr. Arsic's discussion I can even mention public enterprises and whether we can even discuss the whole story. When you pass in two years two laws, I thought this law would at least introduce professionalisation and the influence of political parties in the selection of directors. Since I have very little time and my colleagues have said a lot, just to be specific, I'm just going to list some parts of this legislative proposal that are problematic to us. Special member of the 17th legislative proposal that excludes the professionalisation of the Supervisory Board, as it will have only one independent member, Mr. Minister of Five of them. It would be logical to break this practice and also introduce a criterion for all to be a member of the Supervisory Board or to establish criteria which cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board, especially when it is part of a political organisation. the political resemblance of those who choose such functions. That would mean professionalization. We will all know how the government will act and do not need to waste words about it. As for Articles 18, paragraphs 3 and 4, we think, we have also submitted amendments, that there are not enough five years of work experience in the profession, i.e. three years of work experience from the workaround of a public enterprise. Also, for us, Article 32 is a problem. A particular problem is the members of the commission to conduct a public competition for the selection of directors. According to this proposal, the government elects three members of them for a period of five years. So we're going to have one that will play an executive role in the selection of directors of public enterprises. Who guarantees the independence and impartiality of this organ? The bill does not mention anywhere that they cannot be party members, which automatically leads to the possibility that this is happening and that we have a party selection of directors again, as I said at the outset. As far as I'm concerned, what Mr., as time stands out, as Mr. Babic was saying, I don't think it's right at least, to mention 2004, especially when the DS was not at the helm, especially the names of individual board members, I will just correct it, Dusan Petrovic was not a member of the board of directors of "Serbia", but Petar Petrovic, and you see who he is. Also, it is not correct to mention someone's wives, someone's family, etc., etc. I don't think this assembly should serve that kind of conversation. As for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I think there is, in our opinion, a problem in particular of Articles 2, 4 and 5, because it is not clear why the transfer of things as a basis for the settlement of tax debts is being introduced. That means if I can't pay a tax, I can give my car, my TV, etc. I just don't know what they're gonna do with it. Who's gonna do this and sell? It's a little bit to me, let me maybe use one harsh word, nebulously and I'm afraid that there's some, I have to say, bad intentions, because no criteria are prescribed, but it's left to the government's political will to regulate it by its act. How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50409	Mr. Bogdanovic, you've had two minutes, and you speak for four minutes. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50410	I thank Mr. Becic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50411	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50412	It is truly a wonder that opposition representatives in all things find some objection to give and say that something is not good enough, and we ourselves heard that until three years ago, not one law on this subject was voted. I will answer you first of all to this last remark about our proposal that the tax debt is settled not for 24 months, but that the Tax Administration can determine by 60 months the possibility of paying off the debt and the possibility of replacing the debt. But you haven't read that important part, that it's not all business, and that's what I want the public to know. So, I can't have companies avoiding their tax obligations. This is exclusively about the dedicated industry, enterprises of strategic importance, and in addition to this law, it takes a special decision from the government in order for one of the companies to succeed in this way, and we are doing all of this by trying to put the dedicated industry into operation and to ensure their profitable functioning. As for your proposal, it is unclear how members of the board of directors will be elected, so here in Article 18, you have seven items plus five that we have just brought in to define what is necessary for board members to meet and to be able to be organized into one functional continent. So that I don't read everything, I suggest you read it and then talk about this after that. (Goran Bogdanovic, from the post: Supervisory Board. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50413	If you've read Mr. Bogdanovic. (Goran Bogdanovic, from place: I read it. The Board of Supervisors. ) Mr Bogdanovic, if you think you have read carefully, it does not give you the right to throw, it is not according to the Rules of Procedure. The minister said he didn't mind. It's my duty just to warn. Thank you. We had replicas. They also gave up Mr Babic and Mr Arsic, who you gave up the right to the replica because you mentioned them. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50414	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, having in mind that the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dejan Radenkovic, has already indicated that in Voting Day, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed legislative acts, I can only confirm that the laws I will discuss really and deserve support, a certain degree of respect, I hope you will provide it to us through well-intentioned suggestions to improve the quality of the law. I'm referring to the Law on Public Enterprises. Why Minister Sertić? Because in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are companies established by several units of local self-government. These companies insist on and carry out the work that is in line with the Law on Public Enterprises, which we are discussing today, as well as the previously applicable Public Enterprise Act, such enterprises have done business of general interest. If we take into account the fact that such companies are founded by several units of local self-government, then we come into a legal situation of absurdity that such enterprises do not have legal legal status, do not have a legally established way of defining the property structure, do not have a legally established way of forming a governing body or supervisory board, director, etc. I have to mention, for practical reasons, that it's enterprises that are mostly related to waste management. Such a company operates in Vranj, such a company operates and has its headquarters in the town of Užica, and is founded for territory, or as many as nine municipalities of Zlatibor and Moraviga district. The company as a public utility company is registered as a regional waste management centre titled “Deeply” and covers the territory of two cities and the territory of municipalities and that - Požega, Arile, Kosjerić, Bajina Basta, Cajetina, Lucani and Ivanjica. So it's a territory that has a surface area of 5,300 km2 and service the needs of more than 350,000 inhabitants. I ask you to bear in mind something that we have tried to fix with amendments to public enterprises when it comes to this law and that this is exactly the kind of business that we are systematicizing, that is, that the normisation of a part of this law applies to such businesses. Why? For two simple reasons. First, there really is no compliance with any legal act. We do not comply with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. We do not agree with the provisions of the Business Society Act. Then the question arises – what law can apply to these companies now? According to us in the SPS parliamentary group, that is one law, which is the law we are discussing, that is, the Law on Public Enterprises. The second reason, respected Minister Sertic, is the fact that these companies are coming into certain financial difficulties and problems, given the indisputable fact that the transfer funds towards local self-government are shrinking. By doing so, and the local self-governments that are the founders of public enterprises, I am talking about local self-government units, they also have fewer funds that can transfer for the purpose of carrying out the activity of such public enterprises. Then how are these public enterprises in Vranj, Užic, and I don't know where else in RS territory? By providing money from international financial, government or non-governmental institutions and organisations. Of course, there are other questions here. You have quite correctly defined in the law certain bodies and bodies that participate in the selection process both of the Supervisory Board and of the Director of Public Enterprises. You have asked, you have set up, specifically, commissions that will deal with these affairs, but then you ask one logical question – where is this body that will discuss and be responsible for selecting the supervisory authority of regional public enterprises, where is this body that will deal with and be responsible for selecting the director of a regional public enterprise if we do not have it in law? That is why we in the SPS parliamentary group have proposed amendments in which we felt it would be very good, even necessary if the public enterprise set up several units of local self-government, an act establishing the company to be a contract that sign all local self-governments as founders based on the decisions of the local self-government parliaments on their participation in the establishment of such a regional enterprise. Why? Here, clean legal solutions are imposed, and I have full freedom, as a lawyer and a lawyer, that from the point of view of my professional references with which I am in possession, and I hope that this is sufficient to point out to you, the respected ministers, that it would be very useful in the law to systematise what the parliamentary group of the SPS proposes, and that it is sufficient to norm that all local self-government units, which are participated in the establishment of a regional enterprise, first make decisions on the accession of such a way of forming an enterprise, or establishing, that, on the basis of these decisions, the Assembly concludes a contract in which, of course, foreign Contracting Parties will be all units of local self-government, regardless of whether municipalities or cities are, and the Treaty defines the relevant issues relating to jurisdiction, bodies and bodies, and all of course, the property of which are solely in the provisions of this law, but only the only one establishment of the local authority, which is necessary. I set the example of Vranj, and I cited the example of Užica, but I'm sure there are more. I'm sure they deserve the same attention as the one I cited, and I'm sure that, in some way, if not this law, the respected ministers, then some special law must regulate their legal status. What I also want to point out is that, when it comes to the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, there is a good systematization of how the president and the board members are elected, as well as the director. However, I would draw your attention to one part of the provision of Article 18, which points to criteria for selecting a chairman and member of the Supervisory Board, where it is defined to be a person who meets the conditions laid down in Article 18. One of those conditions, Your Honor, is that it has not been sentenced to a sentence of at least six months. This is usually the norm that is present in some other system laws, and which we in the SPS parliamentary group support. But we ask you to consider something else that might be possible, we have not submitted amendments in that part, but it could possibly be from the resolution board as an amendment to fix this part of the text. What should we do if a person, who applies for the post of president or member of the board of directors, is not sentenced to an effective sentence of six months, as stated here, but is sentenced by a conditional conviction and with a great time of trust, say, a year to three years? Does such a person meet the conditions of being a candidate or elected president or member of the Supervisory Board, as well as the Director? I'm convinced that no, as you are convinced that no, but then here we should fill that legal void, to avoid certain risks for such faces to appear, which is not impossible. It's theoretical and it's possible. Also, here are some criteria that are more restrictive. Restrictions in the direction that someone can't be a candidate for a supervisory president or a director. And who can't? Can't be the one who's given the safety measure. Then these five security measures are listed. But, dear ministers, from the point of view of the provisions of the Criminal Code of Security measure is not a sanction, it is a secondary sentence which is mandatory under the main penalty, i.e. criminal sanctions, which is: mandatory treatment in a medical institution, mandatory treatment from drug abuse, mandatory treatment from alcoholism, etc., not to mention. So it's about side sentences. It's not criminal sanctions. I think it should be a little bit different to formulate this member, because it comes out of this that only a measure of security is sufficient without anything else that would disqualify any candidate to be elected president, member of the Supervisory Board or chairman of the Supervisory Board. Of course, all the other things that are stated in the law mean really quality solutions and if our amendments were to be accepted, we in the SPS parliamentary group are convinced that these issues would be, firstly, quality solved, and secondly, to have one truly comprehensive law, which in an extremely adequate way defines all the issues that are open here, which I have identified in some way as problems in practice. As for the law relating to "Sartid Iron", respected Minister Sertic, there you have full support, unreserved, strong support, regardless of what a classic Lex specialis law is. It is a good thing that the issue of property-legal relations is finally defined in this way, which depends on the status of "The Irons" and all other issues that "The Irons" must solve in order to appear as a credible business for further investment, possible sales and anything that the Government can recognise as useful for the company and for the 5,000 employees of the company, and of course for the state of Serbia. The only thing I have to point out as a lawyer is that it wouldn't be good if we had one of those kinds of approaches in relation to some other situations to define every single question, or a neural point, that's how we solve it, but this one had to be solved this way and it's good that you solve it this way. When it comes to the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I have to point to two facts, two issues that are issues that come from the field, which are asked by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and which are asked by those directly touched by this law. When it comes to taxpayers, it is about the tax obligations of independent artists. Dear Ministers, since I will now address both of you because Minister Vujovic is not here, I must draw attention to the fact that independent artists have a special treatment that is not very pleasant when it comes to the reconciliation of tax obligations. For what? Because for independent artists of local self-government, they meet the obligation to pay pension and disability insurance contributions, unfortunately with delays. Every delay and arrival, and an unmistakable commitment by local self-government to those for whom they settle, which are independent artists, automatically causes interest. It's some kind of sanctions, some kind of punishment. What happens in practice at the level of local self-government? These interest rates, unfortunately, are not paid by local self-government, but go to the burden of independent artists who have no idea whether the city or the municipality paid in time for the contribution of pension and disability insurance, whether it informed an independent artist about the settlement of obligations and, in the end, why it was waiting for the notification, during which the interest rate ran and those interest rates reached quite a large amount that goes exclusively to the burden of those for which those obligations were paid. Of course, here we must be completely honest, open, and accurate. The question is, could independent artists have checked the balance of their debts? However, local self-government must have a far more correct approach and a far more correct relationship when such issues are present, or when such problems arise in practice. At the very end of this discussion, I would also like to point out something that citizens also ask as a question when it comes to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and in particular about citizens, or rather about farmers who have huge land areas, large areas, and it is logical to be burdened with tax obligations, i.e. that fiscal burdens on them be an adequate quality of property they have. However, just yesterday, coming from a village called Kremna, and you know where the Kremna is and where the Kremna prophecy has somehow come into life, right there, farmers are asking a question – why are they burdened with fiscal obligations that involve a non-selective approach? Why? Because a man has a surface area of more than 40 hectares, but the entire area of land is burdened with tax debt as if it were the same category of land without a special classification. So, regardless of whether it's lower or lower-quality land, whether it's the configuration of the terrain on which that land is of a flat or hilly nature. Whether it's near access roads or far away, therefore, all those problems that are present are also determining the way of taxation, and therefore the level of taxation, which should, in particular, be brought to life and I think there's a lot to be done in that direction. Of course, these are just well-intentioned suggestions. Finally, I must point out once again that all the legal acts that we, as MPs and representatives of citizens, are today discussing good legal solutions, that as such should be supported, that the government has found the right way for certain issues that are neural issues to be properly resolved and that is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is giving strong support to the government in this direction. I again express my confidence that you amendments that we have proposed on the texts of the law, notably the Law on Public Enterprises, particularly in this part in which my discussion has been focused, as well as amendments by a respected colleague, MP Dejan Radenkovic, who, on behalf of the SPS, also pointed to certain definitions, which could be really well solved in the law, that you will consider all this and that you will accept them, to get a practical and very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50415	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's Messenger Zoran Babic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50416	Dear Ministers, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully today to a debate that has been going on for nearly seven hours. And if a large number of amendments were submitted, I couldn't hear any concrete regrets, and even less I couldn't hear that someone had suggested alternative solutions. I couldn't hear anything that could improve the proposed objections, or proposed laws. What was most discussed here today in challenging these laws was on one side of the technical matter, which is calling a session of the National Assembly. Today’s session of the National Assembly was called fully respecting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. She was called in on time. Someone complained he didn't have enough time to read 14 laws. What's the opposite argument, is that these laws that are proposed in the procedure today are 519 amendments. Which means someone who didn't have time to read the laws, I don't think he'd have time to propose this number of amendments, so that first grudge, I think it's this way. The second complaint went and several MPs here asked a question, which is that something about these laws, something we want to hide. If, for years, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia bears the title of the most open institution, the most transparent. If we know that everything that happens in the National Assembly, every document, every law, every amendment is shown through an open parliament, that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have access to the Open Parliament, that the sessions of the National Assembly, but also the sessions of the committees, everything that happens in the Small Hall and in the Hall of the National Assembly and in committee halls, are transmitted through the Life Strip, that this session of the National Assembly is also carried through the Public Service. I think the National Assembly is the last place where someone would hide something, so that other grudge that was put out today, I think it's this way. I'd like to say a few sentences about the Public Business Act. Of course, that I, although all the laws that are proposed are extremely important, I think that this law is kind of segregated. Three words that define this law in my humble opinion are professionalization, depolition and economics. When I say professionalisation, for the first time there are clearly defined criteria for members of the supervisory boards, but also for the directors of public enterprises, for those who will manage public enterprises that determine the life and quality of our citizens' lives in many of their activities and actions. So we will see here also in Articles 25 and 26 and before that in Article 18 that defines the conditions for selecting members of the Supervisory Board, but also in Article 25 where the Director must have acquired a higher education in basic studies of at least four years, i.e. basic academic studies of at least 240 points, masters of academic studies, masters of vocational studies, specialist academic studies or specialist vocational studies, that he has at least five years of working experience on jobs that require higher education from points 2 of this law, that he has at least three years of working experience in business related to public enterprises, that he knows the field of corporate management, that he has working experience in organising work, in managing jobs, etc. Unlike some period, the period until 2012 when the only criterion was political membership, familiarity, visa card or family connection with some of the political powers so that such a person would be appointed director or member of the board of directors and supervisors. When I said it was politicisation, it primarily refers to Article 25(7) where it is clearly said that the director cannot be a member of an organ, a political party, or that he is assigned to stay in office within the political party's authority. That is why I am very proud because I am the representative of the ruling majority, the MP of the ruling majority who had the courage to do so, to depolitize our public sector, to depolitise public enterprises into the law, and that law for which, together with my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS Group, I will be very proud to vote. Economism, Mr. Sertić, is seen in this difference, the difference in the management of public enterprises. If I'm not mistaken by 2013, until the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises was a two-home management of public enterprises? So far, there has been two-home management of public enterprises. We also had boards of directors, and we had supervisory boards in public enterprises. Now, from this law we have a one-home management of public enterprises, no more boards of directors, now they're just supervisory committees. What stands as the quality of this law is also the definition of members of that supervisory board. What was the experience in the previous period? It was important that the number of members of these committees in these boards and in these boards, the most important thing was that it was an odd number. That was the only thing that mattered, seven, nine, eleven, thirteen, and even 21, as many as were members of the board of directors of a public enterprise. That odd number was the only thing that mattered. Now and this law is clearly defined, public enterprises whose founder is the Republic have one-home management, a supervisory board that counts five members. It is clear which five members, that one person must be employed, that one person must be an independent, extra-party person and is clearly defined by the government's decision to make up the amount of compensation for those persons. For public undertakings whose founder is an autonomous province, i.e. a unit of local self-government, the Supervisory Board shall number three members, one of which shall be employed by the public undertaking. Also, the government's decision determines fees for membership in the Supervisory Board. Now, if you have a difference in three, or five members of the Supervisory Board, unlike some time before, when there were seven, nine members of the Supervisory Board, and another five board members, when we had dozens and dozens of people who were in an extremely untransparent way there proposed and elected, when we had a dark villa of compensation paid to these people, I think this law rightly carries an epithet of economics. The economy is also seen in the fact that the director of this public enterprise will not be able to have his deputy in the future, because we want to show in this way who has the management right, who has the right, but also the honor, but also the responsibility in managing public enterprises. What we all have to do together is change of mind. A change of mind cannot be defined by any law. The change of consciousness is a long process, a difficult process, to work in a public enterprise, especially to manage public enterprises is a great honor and obligation. We all need to be aware that public enterprises are fundamentally whether they are from local self-government units, whether from an autonomous province, whether by the Republic, they are established here to work for the benefit of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the benefit of citizens living in the AP, or within the local self-government unit. And in the end, not to take care of the quality of life of all our citizens, but to make a profit. That they are creating a profit that will return the Republic of Serbia to the AP budget, i.e. the budget of the unit of local self-government. To achieve profit does not mean to share it through the 13th salary, to achieve profit means to invest in better business conditions, in a better and better quality life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be and to work in a public enterprise is an honor, not to privatise this public enterprise, and therefore I think that in the future we must work on changing the awareness of all people working in public enterprises, that they are there to be not above, but to be servants of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to work not for their own benefit, but for the benefit of citizens, and it cannot define any law, it can only define the relationship of the founders, in this case of government, or the units of local self-government and AP. And for that, I am proud that we can boast of the work, a good part of the public enterprises established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which after a period when public enterprises are, by the rule of law, only losses, we can praise the large amounts measured in millions of euros, which are the rules for profit and return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget, the budgets of local self-government and public enterprises necessary and must operate in a system of merged courts. We can't be different, we can't be seen as different systems. It's one system. It is one society, because both the government and local self-government and the AP must work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore, I hope with great satisfaction, after the debate in particular, together with colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will also vote for this Law on Public Enterprises, but also vote for all other laws proposed by the Government of Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50417	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Milisavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50418	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today's discussion will begin with the memory of one of our Serbs, Dr Draginj Ljočić Milosevic, who, on today, on the day we discuss laws, very important health laws, born 161 years ago, the first Serbian doctor, the first woman to be educated in Sapac, the Higher Women's School in Belgrade and medicine ended in Zurich. As a student with an act of sanity lieutenant, she participated in Serbian-Turkish wars, on today when we discuss two very, very important laws in the health sector, she led us to the consistency of the first woman doctor in Serbia, Draginja Ljocic Milosevic, who was born 161 years ago and left her lifeline for us as a guide to serve the Serbian people. We would also love it if the congregation’s majority understood its pattern in time today and that such important human health laws were not discussed by the urgent procedure, especially as these laws went into public debate, these laws were to be specifically discussed in the congregation hall. I want to tell you that when we talk in the Public Health Act about the necessity of prevention and prevention, the prevention of disease, including early detection of disease, I want to give you a proposal that given the situation in Serbia, that we have a large number of citizens who have had malignancies, that we have a great mortality of malignant diseases, when we have data that we have a large percentage of patients with cardiovascular disease, that we are among the first countries in Europe, unfortunately, by the mortality of cardiovascular diseases, that we may also think about introducing mandatory systemic examinations, as was once in the former Yugoslavia, when workers of the Republic and city enterprises were obliged to go to doctors once or twice a year and to do so planically. That's what they're called. reviews that were in the former Yugoslavia and we are now talking about some screening programs, which is very good, and we should also legally commit that, since we could reduce the mortality rate for a few years in a large number of inhabitants. Now, that's one suggestion that in some months, I won't say for years, in some months we're thinking about a legal regulation that would oblige our citizens to especially women over 40 years, that they must necessarily go to breast screening programs, to review ultrasounds, to review mammograms, that in a man we have to check the lungs and prostate, in women too, and thus already at the beginning would have reduced mortality from these diseases. When we talk about strengthening the capacities of the Institute of Public Health, I will agree with you that the public health institutes in Serbia are well equipped with personnel, that we have good doctors and good technicians, that we have good appliances, but that in some years we have little left behind those institutes and that some of their responsibilities have been transferred to other ministries and when we talk about some security of food control, products, unfortunately, only the Ministry of Health has been concentrated solely on water and air control and some additives and children's food, while the food that is in public use is practically uncontrollable by the medicine sector, i.e. The health sector. Food that enters Serbia at border crossings, I ask the question, it is much smarter and better to be examined by the sanitary inspection, to be reviewed by the Institute of Public Health, and this occasion I will say that our institutes are very well equipped, that the Institute of Public Health laboratory in Nis has a licence from Graz and can, in practice, be licensed to carry out reviews of products that could go to the European Union market. So these are things that we need to consider as a serious state and to further improve the quality of health care by changing legal solutions. The safety of our citizens in the health sector. So, this is a strong topic. I, since I still have a few seconds left, don't want to talk about the law yet. Once again, out of respect for the first doctor, I will mention that it remains remembered in the Serbian parliament, the information about this brave woman, that she never forgets and that generations of MPs' doctors her name and her entanglement as the first female doctor who was born 161 years ago, finished medicine in Zurich, women worthy of Serbian respect and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50419	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50420	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50421	Finish your sentence. I'm just warning you on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50422	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50423	Thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50424	As far as urgency is concerned, there is no particular reason, but there was no reason to delay, because all conditions were created. As you well know, it was mentioned that it wasn't, but there was a public debate that lasted a month, and we had on the portal, and we respected literally all the procedures that were scheduled for it. I think we were late with this law because a lot of things have changed and different standards and new specifications have been introduced and only for that reason have we gone, because there will be an interruption of the Assembly, so it will accumulate for the next Assembly, not to wait, that was the only reason, but we are extremely open to all the proposals and amendments that can improve this and accept them. So that's where you know there's no problem. The second thing, as far as preventive checks and mandatory checks are concerned, which you said, here we have already done in with the Ministry of Sports for free mandatory examinations, complete examinations of all children who are engaged in sports and of course we will continue, but we have to put that into legal frameworks, because what you mentioned, everything has been transferred to medical work. Medical work is isolated from the home of health, functioning on its own. So these are the things that have to be put into procedure now. On the change in food safety, we've now returned it to the Ministry of Health and I think we'll finally regulate it, because we're responsible for it, so it's correct and we're going to follow the whole process from the start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50425	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I join in the words of support for the proposed laws. On health care laws, more explanations will be provided by other colleagues. I would like to underline once again why I believe that our support deserves the laws of order: one, a law dealing with the issue of public enterprises. So, because I believe, in a very good way, it defines the issue of strategic importance for our Republic, because it regulates the issue of carrying out the same activity in an inappropriate way, above all at the local level, which is also important for practice, which introduces measures to improve the issue of labour professionalisation, which improves efficiency. This applies, above all, to those parts of the new proposed law relating to direct managers and to the issue of harmonisation and respect for certain strategic plans of realisation. I think, all extremely important details and good solutions. At the very end of the story of this bill, I must note that several times today we have heard certain remarks or doubts about the protection of public enterprises from party influence. So, on that point, I have to notice the following. Whoever complained about such a thing seems to have missed out on this proposal, that nothing is derivated, that the number of protection measures is smaller than what is in force today, on the contrary. And what is true today, and what is proposed as a new bill today, is again the proposal of those sitting on this side of the hall and any sign of a question to come from the other side of the hall, is absolutely surprising, especially, let's say, comments, and I have seen some amendment suggestions, that the issue of this kind of protection against party influences seems to be somewhat unusually disturbing to make it more flexible. Well, there are some interesting suggestions, type – not to be a party member, if you are not a prominent member, but that you can be a party member in general. We'll talk about it in more detail in two days, I won't waste any more time today, but I have to notice, at the very least, strange suggestions and unusual thinking. With regard to metalogy and control of objects of precious metals, motivation for the bill's proposal is in line with European practice and in compliance with international conventions. There were no negative comments on the subject today. It is also good to praise that we understand each other and that nothing vague has appeared about it. But when it comes to property on land and buildings, and with regard to "The Iron" Smederevo, I would remind you once again what the motivation for the proposed law is? Motivation is to speed up business, make better, successful and tomorrow's privatisation. Again, there have been some misunderstandings among certain national representatives today, to which the proposed land measures apply, well, I would like to offer a certain solution for my part. I would invite all those who seem to have not yet understood where the answer to this question is to look at Article 2 of paragraphs 1 to 3 of the Law in question. I think that's where they'll find the answer to the question that was really hard to come up with. On public-private partnerships, an extremely important area and also a subsequently important law. Again, it is about harmonising with EU law and measures to improve, strengthen risk control, I believe, something that can only and exclusively be supported. If anyone has objections to what has been proposed in relation to the current solution, I would remind you once again that this proposal has been formed in good co-operation with international organisations. I believe it will help to bring a final court in two days from today. However, the only question that has been raised specifically in this legislative proposal concerned matters of jurisdiction and type of operation, or the possibility of building certain objects. I would remind myself again that it is not a bad thing to study the content of the bill whenever a certain uncertainty arises, so whoever does it eventually, I think, too, will solve these kinds of concerns, applies exclusively to those situations where cost-effectiveness cannot be provided in a different way. Everything's more than clear, who wants to understand, anyway. As far as the tax procedure is concerned, I respect the intention to make this a more durable situation for the taxpayers, to make them financially dissipated, to speed up business activities and entrepreneurship, and to agree with you, Mr. Minister, that this is particularly important as a kind of message in the year of entrepreneurship. I think a very important message is being sent, to take care of our citizens at every opportunity, and to always look to come out whenever possible. Our support, ladies and gentlemen, is also deserved by international agreements and agreements that motivate business activities, but not only of business, and in this sense, everything that is on the agenda, and also of co-operation with Korea, Turkey, Kazakhstan, concluded with the issue of co-operation through the Agreement with the Russian Federation and which, I believe, is in the best possible spirit of the first sentence found in this agreement, which is said to be brought forward by a mutual intention to strengthen the friendly relationship between our two countries, which is valid everywhere and on every occasion, ladies and gentlemen, which we confirm in every opportunity, among other things, and this legislative proposal. Once again, gentlemen ministers, very good suggestions, congratulations on that and once again support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50427	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50428	Thank you. I'll use the time of the parliamentary group, but then I'll take the time of my colleagues' authorised representative. I just wanted to recap today's debate on the need to pass this set of laws because when we talk about public companies laws in general, where we have the best example of functioning, as they used to, based on the State Auditor's report on the management of general finance in the AP Vojvodina. As one of the great results, as we can see, is that there was no documentation at all conducted and that certain decisions by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina were never published in the "Official Messenger" of the AP Vojvodina. The "officer" AP Vojvodina is also a public enterprise, and it is one of the good examples, to see how public enterprises operate according to estranged models when there was no law on public enterprises at all. In addition, a report by the auditors found that in addition to the lack of documentation, there were no public procurements under many paragraphs, that more than 159 million dinars were practically distributed without public procurement. So these are some models of outdated jobs that are bad examples, and apparently today's laws should be in a more controlled position, so that this does not happen and simply have adequate budgetary resources for the citizens of Serbia. I think that in voting day, it should be realistic and reminding colleagues who might not vote for this law, that it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, the future of our children, no matter what parties we belong to and whether Mr. Alexander Vukic is the prime minister of this government, these legal solutions should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50429	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50430	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, given that only two months ago we had serious amendments to the law through the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, we consider it very inconclusive to change and supplement that law again, and again by an urgent procedure. It should be borne in mind that the proposer is now supplementing the law through 18 members, which indicates serious failures in the adoption of the law, as well as in the adoption of previous amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. In particular, I draw attention to the key changes proposed in Art. 2, 4, 5, 13, 14, and 15, which are given broad powers and practically discretionary rights to the Government and the competent minister, which always leaves room for politicisation and corruption. Also, Article 1 proposes that the tax administration, instead of quarterly, publish a list of the largest taxpayers, which is certainly a step backwards in terms of transparency. Article 7 proposes to increase the tolerance limit for irregular taxpayers. Such a solution destimulates taxpayers to make additional efforts to reconcile their obligations to the state, and certainly detimulatively affects taxpayers who regularly settle their obligations. The proposal for a law on public undertakings represents a better version of the applicable law, given that the proposed law provides for the control function of monitoring, implementation of the business programme and the development plans of public enterprises at the three-month level, and that much has been done with regard to the transparency of business and the selection process of the company director. However, the fact that the draft law allows the directors, elected under the old law, to continue their post until the end of the term of office, to be considered unacceptable. That is why we have tabled an amendment allowing all public enterprises to get a new management, which requires specific knowledge and skills for the new law. It is now an opportunity to break up with the practice of public enterprises in Serbia being party prey through the appointment of party directors and the entire management, who are secure in their positions, feeling god-given and unchangeable, despite the disastrous results seen in multimillion-dollar losses, which are financed by citizens. The absence of more detailed criteria is noticeable to ensure that public business directors are selected by persons who are professionally and professionally trained. Also, there are no precise criteria for assessing the same faces. It is an interesting solution to suspend the director if he is subject to criminal or criminal proceedings against the economy and legal traffic, but not for crimes against official duty, such as bribery, trade in influence and others. Bringing the law, in itself, won't change much. All previous laws were better than those brought before them, and public enterprises have never experienced a real and honest reform before. All previous governments stressed the number of employees in public enterprises as a problem. The Serbian People's Party does not see the number of employees in public enterprises as a fundamental problem, but rather the problem is that they reflect the party structure in the current partition of cards, as well as party employment. Public enterprises have no problem with employee qualifications either, but the problem is that many of them only formally meet job conditions, such as wearing makeup systems for those who have already been seen for the job. As a result, successful and creative individuals cannot be rewarded, and failures are impossible to sanction. The total profit mass for successful businesses is eaten by systematised party members. Public enterprises are most often inactive, trom and disorganised, unaware of the fact that they represent a service to citizens through services they provide throughout the territory of the state at affordable prices. That's why we can't expect their big profit, but we can expect more efficiency, efficiency and economics. This is why it is important that the managers with the entrepreneurial spirit be successful at their leadership, aware of the role that the company, whose head they are at, is in society and that they are in service to all citizens and that they exist precisely because of them. On the basis of the proposal for a law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings, lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels of Želizar Smederevo, we are asking the question – are we going to issue a special law for every company in businesses that are more bureaucratic? The Serbian People's Party will voice its opinion in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50431	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50432	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will pay attention to the Law on Public Enterprises in my discussion today. Reading the explanation that we have received is clear that the new law introduces certain newspapers and companies that are of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia in which the Republic of Serbia has at least 25% of the basic capital of society, and within six months, it will determine which societies, how the founding rights of the same will be regulated. It is clear that the legislator wanted to limit the founders that at a local level it would not have been uncontrollable to set up public enterprises, and it was very often that the profits of these companies were being paid to one company as founder rather than to the budget of the Republic, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government. Changes are evident for the selection of directors of public enterprises, their professionalisation, and all in order to increase personal and collective responsibility. The criteria for selecting the Supervisory Board of Public Enterprises, both in terms of work experience and in terms of their responsibilities, have also been strengthened. The directors are now required to adopt a long-term and medium-term plan, business strategy and development of a given public enterprise, as well as the implementation of this strategy. This achieves more realistic business indicator planning, so it is much easier to monitor the operationality of the business of the public undertaking. No change, annual business programmes for public enterprises are ongoing for next year on 1 December, and those financed from the budget 15 days from the day of adoption of the budget act. All amendments and additions to the programme can only be made if there are strategic changes or very significant changes in the circumstances of business. The level of criminal provisions points to the conclusion that this bill increases the degree of control in the business of a public undertaking. The act of this legislative proposal is in a more efficient way to plan business activities, improve corporate governance, transparency in business and respect for deadlines for the delivery of legal documents. As regards certain legal proposals, I would like to point out that this new law provides for members of the 15-53rd public enterprise, the way of appointment, the resolution and the description of the job. In order to comply with the law on greater transparency in work, it is envisaged that the website publishes working biography of members of the Supervisory Board, executive directors, organisational structure, annual, or three-year business programme, an annual financial report with the opinion of the auditor and other information of importance to the public. The Economic Reform Programme defines the government as introducing professionalisation in the business of public enterprises that will remain under state control, while ousting social policy from public enterprises into the social protection system, as well as gradually reducing the state stake in the economy. During the previous period, large budget allocations concerned aid to state and public enterprises. The plan is to reduce participation in the next period, so that in 2018, 0.5% of GDP does not cross. In order to prevent the emergence of new and realisation of existing fiscal risks, better control and monitoring of the business of public enterprises has been introduced and three large public enterprises – EPS, "Srbigas" and "The Railway of Serbia" have been restructured. That is why we need improved regulations in the areas of public business. I would highlight the direct positive effects of the new law. The provisions of the law shall apply to all forms of organisation which carry out the work of general interest. The founder is obliged to ensure that the work is carried out continuously. The founder of a public undertaking gives consent to certain acts, the authorities of the public undertaking are directors and supervisory board. The Executive Board no longer exists. The criteria for the selection of directors and members of the Supervisory Board, both in terms of work experience and responsibility, have been specified. The Director's responsibility has been extended. The director can't have a deputy and the selection procedure for the director is more clearly arranged. The indirect benefits of this new law are transparency in the work and security of the managing and management bodies in carrying out entrusted tasks. The law applies to public enterprises, but does not encourage the creation of new businesses. As far as law-making is concerned, interested parties have had the opportunity to plead on this law. The economy ministry presented the law on 30 December 2015 in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the text of the law was set on the Ministry of Economy's website, and there was a special e-mail on which stakeholders could send their remarks, suggestions and comments. I use the opportunity to touch regional public enterprises in the follow-up of my discussion, as an example I will be served by the Public Communal Centre for Waste Management "Deeply" from Užica, which was founded in 2005, of nine local self-government, two cities and seven municipalities. On 26 December 2012, the Management Board of this company found that there was no provision in the applicable law at the time that established the existence, status and functioning of a public enterprise with several founders, local self-government, and even required official interpretation from the resolution ministry. It is very important to know by which procedures members of the Supervisory Board are selected, especially when you have nine founders. There were also post-urgents, as early as February 2013, but all these issues remained open and over time gained weight and complexity, and not only because of application, but also because of the difficult conditions of business. In a situation where transfers of funds by the Republic are limited to local self-government, so that many, including this company, resources needed to implement their projects will be provided by international financial, government or non-governmental institutions and organisations. To obtain such funds, compliance of the potential user with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia is necessary and this condition is not yet met by this company. I have a concern that this discrepancy with the Law on Public Enterprises will directly reflect the successful and sustainable business of such a established and organised company that promotes regional principles, as one of European standards. Public enterprises have been given a period of one year to bring long-term and medium-term plans, business strategies and development. The good side of this law is that it will continue to strengthen the organisation unit for monitoring public enterprises in the Ministry of Economy, which will be in charge of corporate strategy and governance, as well as business efficiency of public enterprises. After such a long and exhaustive debate, which we have, indeed, led today by ministers and MPs, so I will support this legislative proposal for everything in the voting day with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50433	Thank you, Mrs. Djokovic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić be prepared. Here you go, Mrs Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50434	I thank the President, the Honorable Minister, with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I will, like most speakers before me, first and foremost refer to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm glad this law doesn't have any major objections, but I would like to, too, here today to support the initiative to regulate the status of regional public enterprises, the founder of which is two or more local self-government. As we've heard more than once, and it's not too bad to mention having such a company in Užica again, it means it's a regional waste management centre "Deeply". What is very important to say is that these companies provide services to citizens and are not recognised as legal entities, as legal entities. Therefore, the principle of funding and decision-making in them was established by their founding act, i.e. their contract signed, specifically at the deep regional dump and between nine local self-governments. What is very important is that they have delivered it to us themselves, which is that they could not agree with the law that was in force, which has still been in force since 2012, and they are afraid that they will not be able to do so further and will be in trouble, especially when it comes to funding them because they exist for obtaining funds from international and government institutions themselves is above all the condition of this legal compliance. What is very important to note is that this will not be a lonely example. By adopting the Waste Management Act the other day, we stated that many of these regional companies would be opened where more local self-government would be joined, so there would simply be a need for this problem to be resolved. I hope that the ministry will meet, if not with this law, by adopting some of the proposed amendments, then surely by some new law or sublaw. As far as the law on public enterprises itself is concerned, we have often been able to listen to analyses that the poor results of public enterprises are precisely the result of poor governance and that public enterprises are the leading problem of the Serbian economy, especially those losers. We hope somewhere that even that law since 2012 and this particular one, which is on the higher step, will leave these objections behind and none of us think that this will be resolved overnight, because overnight this problem has not even arisen. So the point is to change awareness and responsibility of leadership. That is what we are all aware of, especially those who work in public enterprises, that, above all, awareness and responsibility must be changed both by management and by all employees. It is then necessary to apply good experience in private sector governance, as well as to free public enterprises from social and political influences. The paper has a lot because more than half of the provisions have been amended. Of course, these aren't some huge changes, but they're certainly significant that this law would be as effective as possible on the ground. What is very important, my distinguished colleague Zoran Babic has set three goals, I would like to list four. They're a little different, but I'm sure they're somewhere consistent, these are that this law aims at professionalizing work, then increasing the efficiency of governance, transparency and business control. Professionalisation of work will be achieved by introducing stronger conditions for selecting board members. I won't say it again, we've heard many times about what conditions are and, of course, for the selection of directors. What is the objective is the minimal impact of parties and social policy. So it's about depoliticalizing public enterprises. As regards the very increasing efficiency of governance, the Executive Board is being abolished here and the Director is given the option of electing the Executive Directors and therefore personalising the responsibilities. So no more transferring responsibility to someone else. Transparency itself will be obtained through short and long-term plans that will be mandatory, which will have to be regularly delivered to the ministry and, of course, quarterly reports that will be available online. As far as business control itself is concerned, it will work to strengthen the already existing penalties, but they will be significantly tightened and will be a good prerequisite for good control of the application of this law. So, by applying this law above all, the state should protect its property and remain the owner, until adequate conditions are created for privatisation to be the most favourable for our country. So, if it increases the value of the company and in this way we make them more attractive to investors or some new partners, but of course it is some healthy privatisation. Of course, for all these reasons that I have cited and for all the other reasons that we have heard about other bill proposals, we will support all proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50435	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50436	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us today in the National Assembly laws from three areas. These are economic laws, economic laws and public health laws and protection against infectious diseases of the population. What I'm going to put an accent on is laws relating to economic activity. Why? Because in 2016, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was declared a year of entrepreneurship, because this government, led by its Prime Minister, Aleksandr Vukic, since its founding on 27 April 2014 and despite the major difficulties it had in the beginning, I am primarily referring to the elemental disaster that has taken place, has made huge efforts to establish an adequate legal framework which is a prerequisite for attracting both domestic and foreign investment. Also, daily efforts are being made to restore the economy of the Republic of Serbia and we all know that only the economic and economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia can make every citizen's life better. In this regard, first of all, I want to refer to the law on public enterprises because the adoption of this law achieves several and how significant objectives, first and foremost, the first objective achieved by public undertakings law is efficiency, the second objective is economics and the separation of social policy and social protection from public enterprises. It's a professionalization of public enterprises, primarily executives, supervisory boards, executive directors, directors. Then, this is corporate governance, which involves continuous training of both directors and members of the Supervisory Board, continuous acquisition of new knowledge, new experiences, new skills in corporate governance, but of course also the application of good experiences and good examples of some other business entities either from the environment or from the country or ultimately from abroad. What I also want to point out is that this law is primarily precise and absolutely clear in each of its members and in each of its segments. First of all, I would like to stress that the taxing conditions that the director must meet are listed. By taxing these conditions, the accent is placed on its responsibility and, of course, on previous work experience, within the framework of a high profession, within the framework of university education. It is a work experience of up to five years and, of course, a work experience of three years on jobs that are directly related to the jobs that are being set up, with these jobs that the public enterprise is doing, so that we don't have to go as it happens for many years back to bring party people to the head of public enterprises, people come without a single day of work experience. Of course, this government is defined as also the head of public enterprises, one of whose functions should be to increase the revenue side of the budget or the Republic of Serbia or the AP or local self-government units, depending on who is the founder of the public enterprise, and only with professional people who have working experience, with people who have knowledge, with people who have a vision of how corporate policy should improve, only so can public enterprises bring profits into the budgets. Of course, public enterprises, above all, must be services to citizens and good services to citizens, and all employees of public enterprises led by directors must be aware that they are primarily there to improve the business of businesses, but to be at the service of citizens who are users of their services. What I also want to point out are other laws of course. I would like to commend the government's commitment, your ministry, to creating preconditions regarding the Smederevo Ironworks. You've already pointed out that there are 5,000 employees, but what the previous regime hasn't implemented for decades, this government is determined to start, means it's moving faster steps forward, it's a matter of setting up assets. This is a legal dictionary called the previous issue that needs to be addressed in an adequate, comprehensive and complete way, so that the Republic of Serbia moves ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50437	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that the health minister is not here with his associates because I wanted to present at the end of my presentation some suggestions and questions to the Minister of Health, but it is likely that some of the higher reasons are in question and that this is why Mr. Minister is not present. In fact, I will look back on the Public Health Act from all over this set of laws. The Law on Public Health is the best way to fully address significant social issues in the field of health. Since the law passed in 2009 we have not dealt with this part of health care. The current Public Health Act did not provide for public health to be implemented on all policies, and it was necessary to adopt a new law in order to comply with the 10 key areas of public health that were recommended by the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe. I will list only some of them – supervision of the health and well-being of the population, health protection including safety of the environment and work environment, as well as food, response to health risks and emergency situations, promotion of health, prevention of diseases, their early detection, the provision of complete public health personnel, etc. In the current register of regulations in the RS, there are over 170 rules that directly or indirectly refer to public health, such as laws, regulations, rules, decisions, orders and instructions. All these regulations can be classified in several categories, such as health care, health insurance, protection of the population from infectious diseases, sanitary surveillance, quality, regularity of life supplies, conditions for the production and transport of life supplies and legislation relating to water and air. In all European countries, consensus has been reached that the key role of the state is to protect the interests of public health and to include all the necessary participants in activities and implementation, single-health interventions, as well as the financing of single-health services. In addition, an emphasis has been thrown on the objectives involved in promoting health, preventing individual diseases of importance for all mankind, appropriate mechanisms for involving the community and intensifying research in the field of public health, and particularly health protection of certain population groups, such as old, poor and refugees. Another goal of the EU is to achieve a balance between the standards that the public of member states wants and what can be achieved through national single-health policies. The Public Health Act presented today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be defined as a set of legal relations, rights and duties by which the state provides conditions for the health of residents and limits autonomy, privacy, ownership and other legally protected interests of individuals with the aim of preserving and promoting community health. In order to bring this law into line with international documents, the public health institutions and public health institutions are primarily defined as the establishment of a national public health council and a body for the coordination of European health policy led by the health minister. Further improvement of this law will also lead to a sublegal act for the development of public health personnel, such as study programmes in terms of public health masters and the fat of health management. In the second part of my presentation, I will refer to the most significant amendments to the law. Article 1 of this Act deals with the area of public health, then planning and carrying out activities related to the preservation and improvement of public health. It is also the aim of this law to achieve public interest in preserving the health of the population. Article 3 defines principles of public health, such as supervision of the health and well-being of the population, response to health risks and emergency situations, safety of the environment and work environment, as well as food, early detection, prevention and control of diseases. Members of the 4th to 11th are engaged in defining the carrier in areas of public health, such as institutes and institutions, as well as their activities. The great news of the current Public Health Act has been defined in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. From 12th to 15th, which determines the social concern for public health at the level of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. Article 16 provides for the education of the National Council for Public Health, which will improve the co-operation of competent authorities, organisations and participants in the public health system. Finally, as recommended by EU documents, Article 19 sets out the responsibility of the state for public health and public health through the budget of the Republic of Serbia and health insurance organisations. The adoption of a new Law on Public Health will address many regulations relating to an area outside the health care system, as well as key areas of action and public health. Finally, I wanted to add one more thing, which is, as far as I know, that the Ministry of Health is working on a roof health care law, which we absolutely need, because from 2000 to 2012, a number of regulations and regulations have been passed that have in some way generated crime in health care. I'm not saying you don't get me wrong, it wasn't your regulations and those changes were criminal, but they allowed in a way and they kind of stimulated people who were prone to criminalize the health system. Another thing to do, which is absolutely necessary, is that private healthcare institutions are absolutely incorporated into the health system of the Republic of Serbia and consider duality in work. I think that duality, where doctors and healthcare professionals are allowed to work both in the state institution and in private offices at the same time, is one big generator of criminal activities in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50439	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50440	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to be able to address my enquiries about the law I want to talk about, but anyway, I'm going to present some of my views on the Law on the Protection of Infectious Diseases. I think it's a law that should, as it stands in reason, in some way change, since for 10 years there has been a law that has been in force before us and will still be valid until a sublegal act is passed that follows the law that we now need to adopt. It is a law which, of course, is important for all citizens of Serbia and perhaps in the broadest way shows the importance of a good health care system, since it provides security to citizens and safety to society in case of mass epidemics of infectious diseases, for which some of us are unable to recognize what proportion they might have, such as what is happening now with the Zika virus, where we now see in part a specific type of population, and how much longer it will take to put on the list, and we, through the European Agency, adopt it, accept it, put on our list, and so time can pass, and develop systems and methodology of identifying those diseases that are from the challenges for the nation as a whole. Of course, at least it should be suspected in the circumstances of a very wide range of movements, a big mobbing, mobilising movement in this sense of citizens, even citizens of Serbia who can be here today or tomorrow, and the law foresees some measures and some kind of solution that should prevent us from importing such situations, such vectors, transporters to our field, and potentially also sick citizens, so that even by measures that were previously provided for in the law -- quarantine, treatment measures, prevention, and above all good epidemiological research we isolate, locate and stop potential risks. So I'd start off with some general definition, where in Article 2 in the 37th point we're talking about the concepts used in this law. One term is the definition of the case. Now I would ask, if I had someone relevant here, why, that would be my suggestion, this hadn't worked out a little bit more detail and entered into the bill, because it's something that makes it a straight diagnosis, an assessment of its safety and reliability, whether the likelihood of an infectious disease is highly expressed or completely safe, etc.? This is where criteria are developed through epidemiological, clinical and laboratory studies and assesses the degree of likelihood of infectious disease. That's important because in the next point of view, we see that in an attempt to define an infectious disease we have four or five points and, I must admit, I'm not overly familiar with it, because I'm still a doctor of Somatic Medicine and a clinician. I can't fully understand the ways in which this can be defined as some sort of contagious disease. This way, as some points of the proposal say, could define a massive infectious disease, say, or an infectious disease in the case of MBH aggression, or in the case of even mass, say, non-infectious disease in the case of some nuclear explosion in the neighborhood, where you can read information from the environment and find out a potentially risky event for the health of the population. Or somewhere there's already an indication that it's an infectious disease that needs to be confirmed in a certain way. I think it would be simpler to include what is normally in the law, and I believe that somewhere these 14 acts the government is proposing, which the billmaker intends to bring within 12 months. When that definition of the case is done, everything will be clearer then, we'll know what it means for diagnosis, how it's set up, which way and what it's going to go. This point 4 now seems to me to be some broadly elaborate epidemiological survey that comes to whether or not someone, and never as a clinical evidence of an epidemiological survey, is enough in itself, without a laboratory confirmation that there is an infectious disease. That still means what I found as another query for myself, which is that some of the diseases in the current list that was put here and otherwise conjecture, is called for that solution about so-called. the definition of the case, so it is otherwise arranged a set of infectious diseases to be reported, recognised, reported as diagnosed or suspected etc. So there's no mononucleosis, there's no mebiasis, there's no shrubs, there's no welds, etc. That kind of thing used to exist. Does this mean that in that 2012 European practice, which we adopt and enter into the text, it is now no longer entered, or remains that point, the famous point of expansion of opportunities, to expand the list of what is not clear to us? Special health issues are hospital infections. We don't meet even though it's mentioned, even with the indicative definition of hospital infection, they have to be related to the term, the date. There will be a sublegal act in which it will surely have to be passed, the minister will sign it, it will be brought by some expert team, but we have to have something indicative within two days, three days, and that may be up to a year if it's some kind of endoprothesis, if it's some kind of internal organs operation to report something as a hospital infection. So, some basic framework that would be important to us to understand, because here we also state the law that our colleague was talking about earlier, we are talking about this health enlightenment. Well, if we do, then in that health enlightenment we must already have the basis in the law to say – that you know, if an infection occurs within three days of the day of the patient's admission, by definition it belongs to, say, intrachospital infection. Is it intrachospital denos or intrachospital reactive infection? He goes home, he comes back, he gets sick, and it turns out it's some kind of environmental-infectious thing. So some basics might have passed. It was neither the time nor the place to intervene with the amendments, since it would be quite a number of amendments, it might change the spirit of the law, perhaps the legislator would not be willing, but we might be able to hear some of the explanations, or it would finally explain all the sublegal acts that we want here to, or which we need to put into effect within a year. I'd like to look at one thing in general, and now it can be an anecdote question. Will the deratiation measures carried out on board be missed if the law is not carefully read, I suppose passenger ships, for other cargo ships carrying food will probably be subject to inspection by other services, other ministries, meaning that when the inspector checks the ship and the ship owner, the tourist ship, probably refers to it, international travel says that a deratization has been done and then the inspector makes sure that the deratization has been done? How do you know that? How long does an inspection of a ship take to see if there are rats or not, do you want to do a deratization or not? So make sure and give him the assurance that it's been examined and that it's not necessary. I am talking about this because the services that are otherwise for deratization, other than the state sector, are also provided for private, natural persons and legal persons. These are very expensive services, and even for an apartment to do dissection ordinary, that's a lot of expensive services. Is there possibly going to be a potential place of corruption? We know that there was an inspector here, that there was a lot of corrupt behavior at the inspection level, and that's very possible. Today the inspector can go into the pharmacy with a bag and, in order not to go through the paperwork, take what he needs to do with the dentist, some prosthetic service, etc. So it's one place where it's going to cost well, surely those ship owners, if they bring in from another European country confirmation, and we're the signator of that convention and we're going to follow it, we're going to have confirmation that the deratization was done, that it's valid for a while. I think at least some deviation that the weather knew how much this covers the certificate that it has, and not only has – there is no, and whether or not there is no, will only be determined by the inspector. Let's just say, those were some of my misunderstandings. With regard to the reporting of infectious diseases, it was good to develop that famous member of the definition to know what it was. There are also suspicions of some diseases, as well as evidenced certain diseases must surely be reported and that is within the jurisdiction of the epidemiologist. Of course, who better to understand this than me. Just one more comment, but at the end of the time we agreed to honor internally. Health supervision and quarantine. The Batut will do well to perform what country the risk is, in which our citizens will be. It's just fine, they'll report to the ministry, probably the ministry or some other way of communication they'll know customs, so they'll know that the traveller in the arrangement of some small private agency or some other, personal arrangement, traveling around the world, will be waiting for customs duty in that general control, where people have already mixed in customs passages or mixed planes, to apply themselves, to be recognized as such. I think that this part will probably support, some regulation will work out to avoid these potential ones, which is otherwise very difficult to avoid now, such new infectious diseases, viral diseases that are difficult to predict because of the length of incubation and similarity with many other banal viral diseases, to be identified as such, and serious responsibility is predicted for the complete community, not just for the individual, who may have been at risk. That's what I meant to point out, and I'd like to say hello, which is finally the change that we've made here, about the Immunization Act, finally the right of parents, guardians to immunize their children, and that the decision not to be immunized can only be made by a professional body, so a doctor, or a special commission, if it's a prolonged counter-indication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50441	Thank you, Professor Pocurica. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50442	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Members of Parliament, the Honorable Citizens, I will, first and foremost, speak of a set of six economic laws aimed at the very beginning of this Government, which is, first and foremost, the change of the ambience, the business environment and the adjustment and fulfilment of all those conditions that are necessary for the final companies to start operating in the right way, that is, the way that creates and sets up an open market both in this context and the first law that is on the agenda, which is the Law on Public Enterprises. Finally, the law that abolishes the practice so far, the business of public enterprises which essentially became and were exclusively prey-separated by political parties. I understand for citizens who may not be able to see it, just to know that at this point in the hall there is not a single member of the Democratic Party, who is so much in favour of the business of public enterprises. I am sorry that there is no colleague here to explain to her why and what it means to act of general interest, since the authorised representative of the Democratic Party has asked that very question. The work of general interest is precisely the work of citizens' interests. And this law allows for the establishment of all public enterprises that show the need at local level, at regional and republican level. Anything that will be necessary for both state and local authorities to enable their citizens, they will be able to go through public enterprises and through this very law on the business of public enterprises. I understand their concerns about the business of public enterprises, given how they worked and did business in previous years, but I must stress that I come from the town of Šapca, where, unfortunately, public enterprises are also special stories in the town of Šapac, the director of the public company "Stan" can be a teacher, and the director of the museum can be with high school and higher school. The famous agriculture minister who can be with the Faculty of Law also comes from this town of Sapca. It is they who dispute one such law, which, as one of the fundamental postulates of this law, insists on the depoliticalisation of public enterprises and the setting up, above all, of professional, quality and directors who can run public enterprises in the direction of results that are most favourable, not only for this public enterprise but also for the citizens. The criterion for whether or not someone will be the director is clearly being introduced except for the supervisory board to control the work of the director and management of the company, and a very important audit whose chairman will be an independent member of the Supervisory Board. It is the revision, whose president will be someone who is not a member of any political party and someone who will be able to tell the citizens realistically and honestly whether it worked publicly in their interest and whether it worked in the best way possible. Those non-business public enterprises will be positively in a position to change both the director and the supervisory board, as the basic criterion of business is precisely the result but also the attitude towards citizens. I am going back to my Shabac, where, for example, a public company, Toplana Sabac, would probably be able to enter the Ginis Book of Records, as a company that in the previous period from 2012 to 2016 had the largest number of changes in the directors from the performers to the director who was appointed through the competition, as they very often complemented their parliamentary majority. They've always had another director for the new combination in some combination, and simply in that combination, they're only at a loss of exactly the citizens and that heat, but by this law, what our people would say rang out to all the unprofessional directors of public enterprises. Citizens, you know, under this law, the best, the most professional and the best of quality will be chosen and that's just the way it is. No one will be able to appoint a director unless he meets the conditions clearly and transparently defined by this law. Among other things, there will be no possibility of accidental spending of funds, which is very important, will be spent in accordance with plans and business plans, the business of public enterprises and will be spent what it has, and not what it does not have. We are and indeed it is so, the first party of the SNS, whose president, upon his arrival as President of the Republic, resigned from all functions in the parties, that is, the SNS. We are the party that has just proposed, and in the voting day, I expect it to vote on a law that will place all public enterprises on its leading functions professional and best-quality persons, not party listeners. We are a party that will finally introduce work into public enterprises in Serbia. I would just like to refer to another very important law, which is precisely the law, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions. Be assured that even through the change of this law, we are changing the ambience again and this business environment that will enable people who have the means, regardless of whether we are talking about domestic or foreign investors to help through a public private partnership with their investment, that everything that we cannot do as a state, we ourselves can make it possible through this law for those who want to invest, to help Serbia and citizens and, of course, to help ourselves as an investor. There is no government debt, private capital simply enters a large door into Serbia and through this private capital we can do many capital projects, which will raise the quality of life in Serbia to a much higher level. Since the first law we are talking about in 2011, there are only 34 public private partnership contracts and this law will certainly increase the number of contracts within a very short period of time. I call on those who think well of Serbia, who think well of the citizens, to support this set of six economic laws, and of course I will vote for these laws in the voting day myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50443	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50444	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, after the comprehensive presentation of the resolution ministers, as well as my colleagues from the delegation groups, as well as my fellow MPs, there is little to say about the laws we are discussing today. That's why in short lines, I'm just going to look back at one of the laws, and that's the Law on Public Enterprises. Addressing the problem of public enterprises, as is known, is a problem that has lasted for 25 years. If it were an easy job, of course it would have been done quickly, because privatisation takes so long. Since the privatisation problem has not been solved so far, this government has remained, so to speak, hot potatoes in its hands. And what's the point of the problem? The main issue is the lack of political will to solve the problem. All previous regimes and parties in power could have solved it, but they didn't want to, because then they would have lost many of the benefits they had until then, which they weren't prepared for. And if they had solved it, they'd have social problems, a lot of unemployed workers, street workers, strikes and so on, and they weren't ready for it either. Public enterprises are enterprises that act of general interest, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. In Serbia, there are 37 public enterprises established by the Republic of Serbia and 691 companies whose founder is an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Public enterprises are a form and a relic of socialism. They were necessary and necessary then. By moving to a capitalist neoliberal system, they should have been incorporated into new market economic flows. Due to the socialist way of doing business and social imbalances, as many people as possible have sought to work in the public sector. Almost all public enterprises are pre-named, often non-functional, and there is not enough coordination between individual sectors in enterprises, which is why there is neither profit nor profit. Until the adoption of a new Law on Public Enterprises, most people are employed on the party line, so today we have extra employees in all public enterprises. The government of Serbia, the IMF, and our economic logic, are looking for a rationalisation of the public sector, which is one of the basic objectives of this law. Not only do we have extra employees, but many public enterprises and the biggest losers are also the huge rock around the neck of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the stabilisation of our economy. Because of this, the aim of this government and the proposed law on public enterprises, which we are discussing today, is to build a functional organisation with professional management, which at any moment can compete with private companies from the same activity and make a profit. In order to achieve this goal, our government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic is actively seeking to professionalise governance in public enterprises and introduce responsible corporate governance. The director of each public enterprise should be among the best and most capable in his profession, act as a good host, run the company as if it were his, and social policy should be completely removed from public enterprises. If, however, the government decides that these companies should implement a particular social policy, then funds must be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. One of the newspapers in this law is the depoliticalization of the role of director. He cannot be a member of the political party's body, i.e. during his time as director, his functions in the party's bodies rest. In this way, party employment is completely excluded from practice. Public business directors are elected on the basis of a public competition. Directors must have higher education, five years of work experience and at least three years of work experience in public enterprises. The director is appointed by the government for a period of four years after a public competition conducted by a five-member commission. All of these provisions of the law apply not only to public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, but also to those companies whose founder is an autonomous province, i.e. local self-government units. Until the adoption of this law, the directors of a public enterprise, especially at local level, were also going on to be people with criminal records, without adequate professional training, as well as work experience. With the precise provisions of this law, it is now disabled, so that the possibility of corruption, the installation of directors will be almost completely reduced. I will mention another provision of legislation that narrows down the possibility of corruption, which is the abolition of the executive board of public undertakings. Now the director who was elected to the public competition will be able to choose his own associates, may have up to seven executive directors, from the ranks of employees in the company where he is director. The wish of the ministry, as a legislator, as well as us MPs of the ruling party, is to change our attitude towards work and work habits. Work, order and discipline are the basis of every progress. Our man, when he goes to temporary work abroad, fully adheres to these principles, and since they are incorporated into this law, so the MPs in the voting day will vote not only for this law, but for all the laws that we have discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50445	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50446	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with co-operation, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, are now ahead of us in this set of draft laws and a bill on public enterprises, which shows the determination of economic policy that structural reforms of public enterprises at all levels are no longer being hit on the insurmountable wall of politics. It is a positive fact that through the Economic Reform Programme, the Government has also defined itself to introduce professionalisation in the business of public enterprises and responsible corporate governance in those companies that will remain under state control, while ousting social policy from public enterprises into a social protection system. The new law better regulates the system of control of public enterprises and introduces sanctions for irresponsible management, which so far has not been established. In the event that directors fail to deliver projected business results, additional measures shall be introduced for their resolution, as well as criminal provisions. The conditions for the selection of directors, presidents and members of the Supervisory Board are more clearly defined, both in terms of work experience and in the case of liability, which contributes to the professionalisation of public undertakings management. This bill stipulates that the director of the Public Enterprise must have a college degree, five years of work experience and that he worked for at least three years in a public enterprise. In addition, he should know corporate governance, that he is not a member of the political party, that he is not convicted of criminal punishment, and that he is not given a measure of psychiatric treatment for some act. Due to more efficient governance in public enterprises, the Executive Board has been abolished. In this way, the responsibility of directors and executive directors is personalised. The law also directly encourages the creation of new businesses. It has been established that the founder cannot establish another public undertaking to carry out the same activity of general interest, except in the case of the implementation of public private partnership projects. This prevents, above all, the local uncontrollable establishment of public enterprises, leaving already established public enterprises with, for example, one employee and a huge loss. For the sake of greater transparency in work, public undertakings are obliged to publish on their website the work biography of directors and executive directors, as well as members of the Supervisory Board, organisational structure, annual business programme, as well as any changes and additions, i.e. a copy of that programme, if the public undertaking has competition on the market. They also have an obligation to publish three-month reports on the implementation of the annual business programme, annual financial reports with the opinion of the authorised auditor and other information of public importance. This law will contribute to more effective control of public enterprises, increasing the financial performance of public enterprises, more efficient business planning and improving corporate governance and greater transparency in business, as well as increasing the quality of public enterprises' business, which will reflect a reduction in the expenditure of the Republic's budget, the autonomous province and local self-government units towards these companies, as well as the contribution of these companies to the larger revenue side of the budget. Due to all of this, the SNS will support this bill in the voting day, as well as other proposals that are now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50447	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50448	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so how good are the legal proposals, Mr. Minister, telling us this picture in parliament. I don't see a single opposition MP on the other side. So, all the benches are empty. We have no one to have a dialogue with. Everything you had to say, you said and you probably beat them up and beat them up, so they all got out of here. I'm just going to use some of the time I have, because I don't want to take people behind me to talk, to say that there's nothing to surprise you, especially when it comes to the Law on Public Enterprises. Those who have appointed directors in such a way that they have formed crisis headquarters and with phantoms and automatics entered and appointed directors, it is perfectly normal that against the director being elected in a transparent, visible way, all political parties are withdrawn and removed from the management of public enterprises, because they have managed them for decades and we know where they have brought them and how they have brought them. Public enterprises were party fronts. They split up in strength, in strength, and I have an example from my city, where in a public enterprise, and I don't want to advertise it, when they had nowhere to put their staff when they lost their post, they sent him as deputy director to that public firm, so at one point there were more deputies than workers. This law and this bill of law have just eliminated the term deputy director. It is known that one is the director, one is responsible for his work, as well as the Supervisory Board. The other thing I would mention, which was a lot of shouting while they were in those benches across the street, which is the mention of the law regarding "Smederevo Irons" and the wonders of where it came from after privatization, after one sale, of another sale, that we found this situation with land. Well, it's no surprise. Once upon a time, they sold the Car Factory in the King and sold the Stratište, or the Memorial Park, along with the Car Factory, and no one noticed. Thank God that privatisation wasn't good for the workers that failed, but the privatisation didn't work and we didn't sell part of our history with the sale of a failed factory. What no one mentioned today, and that's one good seven bills from the traffic domain. I would particularly like to apostrophe the bill on the signing of the Protocol between Turkey and the Republic of Serbia, which is about air traffic, which brings us a lot of good, especially if you have followed, and I hope that colleagues working this way on their own on this side have certainly read it. It is an annex to the contract, where we have our air carrier "Er Serbia" has the possibility, not only to organise flights in destinations in Turkey, but also to Turkey, all ports, i.e. countries such as Greece, for example, or behind Turkey, we will have the right to organise flights to those countries as well. If I really don't owe you any more, all 14 legislative proposals are good, and in the voting day, the SNS and I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50449	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50450	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the previous regime, which is no longer here in front of us, has been working on law reform, one important institution, the Institute of Public Health, practically completely kicked out of the story he's been doing for years very successfully, and related to the control of life supplies and all that matters of life and the health of the population and the people. Namely, various changes and combinations of the previous regime, public health institutions have largely lost their responsibilities, without their responsibilities and responsibilities, without their jobs that worked well, who knew they were doing excellent work and had functioned for many years, not to say for decades. It is now here with this proposal in one member – the environment, the health of the population, written that institutions and public health institutions become competent for the jobs listed in points 1, 2, 3 and other members of this law. Namely, the monitoring and monitoring of the quality of the health of drinking water and the assessment of the impact of its pollution on the health of the population and, another very important thing, that is to monitor and control the health regularity of the products and items of general use in order to monitor the specific programmes of the ministry. This is something that is very good, and it deserves to be supported and something that the institutions have been doing great. I think they will continue to work as before, better quality than in this vacuum when something has been changed and divided between several competent institutions from health care to agriculture. In the second law, which is related to infectious diseases, or the bill, there is something that I must admit sounds a little archaic to me, and which I did not fully agree with in an earlier period on one committee, which is mandatory immunization. The definition of mandatory immunization is a little too small for my ears. Mandatory immunisation, therefore, of a person of a certain age, as well as of other persons of a certain law, which a person to be immunized, as well as a parent or guardian, cannot refuse. This can be applied in the 21st century to a whole series of diseases, those viral, those that have proven the fact of immunisation and vaccination as positive. Since I've been doing pulmology myself for 20 years, and a large number of my colleagues know that, none of us who are very concerned with the profession are certain that the vaccine against tuberculosis has brought some great benefit. Benefit for the treatment of tuberculosis has been brought in by medicines found after World War II, so the tuberculosis is now practically pre-radicated and we have some number of tuberculosis patients from thirty-five, 35, as long as it was when I started to work and to deal with medicine, has now fallen to some 13 to 17 in Serbia to 100,000 people. As for diphtheria, diphtheria vaccine was made long ago in 1904, when fellow doctors had little chance to deal with modern antibiotics, so practically from despair came up with some vaccine which at that time was something called a revolutionary discovery, but it seems to me to be slightly overcome and not to pick up one by one, so, tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, a great cough and diseases that are practically not in our midst in the last 30 years, are probably the subject of a panel discussion of professional circles, and like this, I, as a folk MP and doctor medicine, stress that we have in mind something that can possibly be corrected in the future. Faces exposed to certain infectious diseases that work in their workplace, like us doctors, and flu and various other diseases, have also not seen any too much benefit from mandatory immunisation against influenza, because it has a few dozen species, not to elaborate on it. So, it seems to me that this law, in a comprehensive manner, regulates the matter of infectious diseases, except for this part that is related to mandatory immunisation that can be acceptable at this time, but I would ask all those who are dealing with narrowly with infectious diseases and this topic to take part in a future public debate, to make a statement on this subject and to the expert public. In the end, I will look briefly at what is called the economy in this country and the selection of directors for public enterprises. I must say, some local self-government and this previous law were well understood and respected, although it was not precise enough. I must say that some local self-governments from western Serbia and in the previous and in this meeting had the directors of public enterprises who were non-partial personnel, and were very professional and were doing their job very well, but in any case well defined, to specify everything that the minister stated in the opening presentation and to specify that some of the political peaks, which at some point felt that they had strengthened, would not take too much of the law into their hands and would not wave too much of a stick when they were hurt by vanity or when they felt that they were unnecessary or irrelevant in some story, as happened in Cačka, that a director who had done his job well, because someone had been resented by political powers, came to be able to be able to be associated with the joint action of vanity taken from his workplace. So, I welcome what is truly to the point of precise, from the election of directors and conditions for the selection of directors, to the supervisory boards who hopefully will successfully control everything called breaking the law and political power that is unfounded by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50451	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50452	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not speak of this Law on Public Enterprises, since my colleagues did this very well today at this meeting of the Assembly, but I will finally refer to the discussions of certain opposition MPs, but I will say something about the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, and this bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of intellectual property during bilateral military-technical co-operation has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who presented to the MPs in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April 2014. Let's not forget, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, most precise, most concrete, most transparent and large, 52 densely typed sides, of all 72 previous exposés of the Prime Minister, from the time of the first Prime Minister of modern Serbia to Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the 48th exhibition of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, besides the rest, writes, quotes - Serbia will never be able to give up friendship with the Russian Federation. It's a finished quote. Just today, ladies and gentlemen, this bill of law has its foothold in long-standing friendly relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. This friendship, respected citizens of Serbia and the MPs, has been built throughout history on historical, war, cultural and spiritual ties. The Russians settled in Serbia, architects, artists, scientists, literally rebirthed Serbia and left an outstanding mark, making a major contribution to development, both Serbian sciences, Serbian universities, ballets, operas, architecture, heraldics, and even comics. King Alexander Karadjordjevic was considered a friend of the Russians. Just with his support, Serbian Patriarch Varna opened in 1933, Russia's home, the oldest cultural centre in Belgrade. In the world, ladies and gentlemen, there are 64 Russian homes, but it is only Belgrade-based for the gathering of Serbs and Russians. Some of the most beautiful buildings and houses in Belgrade were designed by Russian architects. By 1925, 17 Russian schools had functioned in the Kingdom of SHS. Serbs and Russians, I underline, as two peoples, have never been in a war conflict. I repeat once again, Serbs and Russians as two nations have never been in a war conflict. On the contrary, many Serbs, following a sign of Orthodox religion, fled the union and settled in the 18th century two areas in Tsar Russia, Novi Serbija and Slavno Serbi. Furthermore, Russia was the only foreign political ally of Serbia from 1804 to 1813, so during the uprising. Also, many Serbs have created and hit the foundations of a modern Russian state. Let's not forget that, because we usually highlight the merits of Serbs for the Serbian state, but we do say little about the merits of Serbs to create a modern Russian state. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, enough to mention Sava Vladislavic Raguzinski, in the 17th and 18th centuries, a Serb, the count of Herzegovina, who participated in the policy-making of a powerful Russian empire. He just set up Russian intelligence, maybe you didn't know. He demarcated Russia and China, struck the border between these two great countries, and to this day that border remained. Recently, Russia moved around with China. He was of the highest trust of Peter the Great and Katarina the Great, and also of the second Count Mihajlo Miloradovic, 18th and early 19th centuries, led, believe it or not, by 37 ten Serbian generals against Napoleon in 1812 in the Borodinska Battle, and he is the most responsible for defending Moscow. With that, ladies and gentlemen, we are abdicating ourselves, and that is our contribution to brother Russia, the release from Napoleon. Count Admiral Marko Vojinovic founded the Black Sea fleet in 1783. So these are really wonderful things for the Serbian people to hit the foundations of the modern Russian state. In the end, let me say that Petar Petrovic Gogos, referred to the amanet Peter Cetinjeski, quote, "Pray to God and stick to Russia", finished a quote, on 6 March 1833, held in St Petersburg for the ruler of Montenegro and the hills. About 20,000 volunteers from Russia participated in the 1876 Serbian-Turkish war. In the Balkan wars, the Russians are in Serbian ranks, as you know. Ladies and gentlemen, the day after the Austrian ultimatum in Serbia, on July 24, 1914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikolai II Romanov, who sent a famous response on July 27th 1914, quote, "Russia will in no way leave Serbia". Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Russia's role in World War II is immeasurable, it has given more than 26 million lives of the Russians for freedom from fascism and built their lives into the foundations of freedom, as well as the Serbian people. Every third Serb died in World War II. Serbs and Russians are almost the same people, the same root, the same blood, faith, language and letters, and that connects us. The Great Dositej Obradovic was the source of attempts to reverse the spiritual life of the Serbian people in a Central European pro-Western direction. He, as you know, was an enlightener, a Westerner, spoke several world languages, in fact seven languages he spoke, admired English culture, claimed that English women were the best women in the world, but as soon as he moved to Serbia at the invitation of Karadjordje, he said, quote - turn to Russia, finished quote. If we removed Russian painting from world painting, it would all go dark. If the music of the world were to remove Russian music, it would all be deaf. If the world's literature was removed from Russian literature, everything would be lost. This government, ladies and gentlemen, Alexander Vukic has done more internationally than any government in the last 20 years, this is the response to the MPs of the opposition. She has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, she is working well with both the EU and the United States, with China, with the Russian Federation, with the whole world. Finally, I would like to respond to Mr. President of Tadic's party's parliamentary group. Today, the president of the parliamentary group said one thing, not to say, a monstrous false fact, that the SNS and this government, if you remember this morning, has said – life has frozen in Serbia. Now, gentlemen, I answer to you right now, and I regret that you're not here tonight, but I am answering you because I know for sure that you're watching over little screens what's going on in this assembly. You gentlemen have cemented the Serb people back 10 years, 400,000 jobs have been lifted. Robbed public enterprises. Allow me, in Belgrade alone, the verdict was carried out, so-called The garbage mob, 310 million stolen, and sentenced officially to 73 years. Now, that's how your Dragan Gilas worked, and our Sinisha Mali, that's not how it works. You robbed the bank gentlemen headed by Mr. Djelic. Where's Mr. Djelic now? You might know, and maybe you don't know. I believe justice will catch up with him too. Health, the worst in Europe health care. We have now moved from 35 to 30, so five steps have led him, of which three EU members are behind us. No company worked. You did a robbery privatisation, and part of the company, you see, you didn't want to privatize because you were filling your pockets over them. You have destroyed the school, destroyed the judiciary, the worst in the European Commission's assessment in Europe, and has now improved significantly. You've been fighting us with everyone in the world. You didn't let him co-operate with the great China, Russia and Arab countries. Let me finally say, to kill what you said today. History will certainly record that this government of Mr. Alexander Vukic has reduced the fiscal deficit, consolidated public finances, created a favourable economic environment on the Business World List from 91 to 59 places, from 32 positions has improved, and that is the country's greatest success in the last 10 years. She increased her investment in 2015 to a billion and 700 million, and our opposition bench gentlemen said no, but 200. They've elected UNESCO to keep Kim out of the picture. They have elected a Resolution on Srebrenica, etc. This government has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation. We remained a military neutral country and ended up producing ships in Sremska Mitrovica after two decades. All in all, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I believe that these laws are very good, especially allow one sentence at the end of the Law on Public Enterprises, to quote again exposés where on page 19, next to others is said in the exposé of the Prime Minister, quote – to pass a law on public enterprises, defining governance and control in public enterprises, the way of choice, changing and responsibility of the manager, finished quote. That's exactly what Mr. Minister is doing with this exposé thing. The Honorable citizens of Serbia and the MPs do so by this government of Mr. Vukic and the SNS, by system -- written -- done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50453	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50454	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with fellow Members, my dear fellow MPs and MPs, I will try to give you ordinary pictures of the lives of the people in eastern Serbia and how we look at this law because I belong to that people myself, and I have to think as they do. I think the law is good, but that it should have been passed much earlier, that the situation is much worse at this point than it was, but it's a good thing we can do something now to fix it. You, Mr. Minister, will have a difficult way to win and this law will succeed in harvesting the fruits. You'll have a lot of obstacles, but you're a visionary, a man who has a vision and I hope that with us and all the people who think well of this country you will succeed. The situation in eastern Serbia is very bad and despite so few companies being shut down, three or four public enterprises are in bad shape. We have Zaječar on our feet, up on our knees. If RTB is designed to be a motor force for development in eastern Serbia, it must remain, but must do it differently. The Resavica should survive and the people who work there have a place and have income to feed their families. We need to understand that there is no more throwing money and investment without making sense, and that gives no result. Today, it takes experienced managers with a lot of energy, not people who think they can do anything with a magic wand. If we define ourselves as such a representation of this, we will succeed because we have both opportunities and knowledge and people who know how to do it. We made one big mistake after the election. There's a lot of personnel in the past and we've left them at the same jobs with the hope that we'll control them, that we'll be able to get them to do what we want. We didn't make it. I think it was the wrong move, but from now on, we have to work and think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50455	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50456	I thank the chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish I could speak to the MPs of the opposition, but unfortunately there are no representatives of the opposition in the room. They could have left at least one, shown respect not to us, we're not important here, but to show respect for their voters and for the people who support it. This is how they show basic irresponsibility, but well, as they sow so they reap. Today we have several very important laws on the agenda. I'm going to try to talk about healthcare first of all, and right at the beginning of the day, we've done a lot of things in health care, and that's the fact, but we still have a lot to do to make health care better and to make health care more efficient. What gives hope, which in some ways causes joy and optimism, is that we are on an objective scale in Europe, Europe has its own institution called the European Health Consumer Index, so that this can be translated, where they follow the work of all the countries, 35 countries of Europe, and of which is 28 EU member states. In 2012, we were the last place, nailed to the bottom of Europe. Today we managed to raise five places and we managed to cross even some EU countries. These are objective criteria, it is 48 indicators in six areas of health that are being monitored, primarily the right to inform patients and to treat them, then access to health care, the third - scope and field of health services, the fourth - outcome of treatment, five - prevention and six is the use of pharmaceutical products. According to the report, Serbia scored 554 points from a possible 1,000 in 2015. We had a growth of 81 points compared to 2014, which is the largest growth a country has ever made in Europe when it comes to health care. These are the reports of President Ern Bjornberg, who publicly praised Serbia and these are the exact data, not our story or the story of the opposition, it's simply what life is. I may not notice it so much in everyday life, but it is proof that Serbia is going forward anyway and that is evidence that no one can bring down. After all, much has been done, done in Serbia and over 1,000 specializations have been given, a transplant programme has started, a gamma knife has been installed that has taken dozens and hundreds of our patients to Turkey and the countries of Europe to do certain interventions, when it comes to brain metastases and other things on the brain. Today, Serbia has and is doing it daily. Then 200 children were sent from Zoe's law only for treatment abroad. Until recently it was a mental noun to determine any means to be treated, etc., etc. But what's terrible is we lost a point in some of the criteria we're going to have in Europe, a point in giving vaccines to children. Because the number of children vaccinated in our country last year has been reduced due to some crazy campaign of certain lunatics and lunatics on social networks, who have urged citizens not to go out to vaccinate children, to God that it will lead them to autism or something that is completely out of their minds and unfounded in any scientific and other thinking. In this way they managed to hesitate some parents, and here, Europe has already reacted and reduced our score, and we would have made even more progress in this scale. I hope that this society and that all reasonable, intelligent people, people of the profession and knowledge will do everything possible to explain through this health education how important this vaccination is and how much it is necessary in this fight precisely against the infectious diseases that we are discussing today. What I'd like to say, just for a little while, is that it's about a private-public partnership. I think Serbia has finally managed to ensure conditions that it can amend it with this law and move actively into giving opportunities to private companies that, together with the public sector, it can create and invest in large investments. We managed to stabilize the country. Public finances have been stabilised. The country is no longer threatened by any bankruptcy, a business private environment has been created, an economy that can make private companies possible, things that are ultimately international relations that are such, which guarantee foreign investors that they can invest their money here. In that sense, this law is certainly a great support and opportunity to solve the big problems we have in the country today, together with investors. What's interesting to me and what I would do, since I'm dealing with in some way, among other things, and that environmentalism and the ability to show in which way we can now solve, when it comes to the problem of waste and waste disposal, on the one hand, and wastewater purifiers on the other hand. Serbia has such a problem that it is Europe's assessment, and ours, that we need at least six billion euros to solve the purifier problem and solve the problem of regional dumps. If we enter a system, a private public partnership, if we open the door and create a tender that will be unique for all of Serbia, that the government can control it, that we can bring foreign investment, and we can, I say quite responsibly here that in three years we will solve all problems in terms of ecology, when it comes to waste disposal and when it comes to waste water purifiers in Serbia. We need to work urgently and quickly, when it comes to public-private partnerships because it quickly returns that money that Serbia may lose because someone else will manage highways, methrooms, bridges, dumps or purifiers. But no one has ever taken on their backs from that country or highway or anything, it remains this country, but how much benefit will it be that we through a better infrastructure will bring investors and make and show that the country that solved its environmental problems, which made the conditions for these people to come here to invest, is of invaluable value. That is why Serbia should put first and urgently the possibility of concessions and private public partnership and develop at an accelerated pace when it comes to this infrastructure, because it will return very quickly. Full support for these laws, I think this will be another step forward to that basic goal, which is to create one responsible, fair, modern and hard Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50457	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I guess we have plenty of time as a parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is always a pleasure when we have laws that strengthen our economy, strengthen its competitiveness, which create spaces for new jobs, which repair the economic environment in Serbia. Such laws should always be carefully observed, done their best to improve themselves eventually. I hope that through this large number of amendments there will be such proposals and that simply the economy in Serbia will be strengthened, to create new opportunities and opportunities, as I said about new jobs. One of the laws we talked a lot about today is the Law on Public Enterprises, but it is a law that deserves great attention from both citizens and MPs because public enterprises in the previous period were in some way excluded from all those transition changes primarily based on social enterprises, on the real sector, on the financial sector, but there was not enough power to work a little more in the previous period when it comes to public enterprises, and public enterprises are a good part of the Serbian economy and are of exceptional importance to the future of our economy. The success of the reforms in the next period will be measured primarily by the fact that we will manage to put public enterprises under control, that public enterprises are more efficient than they are today, that they make a profit to return that profits to Serbia's budget, because society has invested very much in them in many years, that the losses in the public enterprise in the coming period are as little as possible. In one part, they are inevitable when it comes to social policy, which is unfortunately run by certain public enterprises. But when it comes to companies on the market, and public enterprises, their efficiency in the coming period, of course, and profitability must be significantly higher. Since 2014, when this government has been given the opportunity to exercise power, I think the first steps have been made to improve the situation in public enterprises slowly. This is just another step. We have a very big job ahead of us, because every public company is a story to itself, it has its own problems, it has its own good side, it has its own faults. Not everyone is in a situation to eventually enter into a privatisation process or a public private partnership process. I count that in the next period on the one hand, making sure that their costs are as small as possible, and on the other hand, obliging both as a society and as a state and as political actors. Anything less than public enterprises, we expect them to have a social function, because that's the only way we can measure their efficiency, their efficiency, the efficiency of their business. This law gives a very serious step forward, first of all when it comes to the quality of management, when it comes to the quality of the supervisory boards, because that was what was missing in public enterprises, it seems to me so far, or it was not sufficiently highlighted. So, this law significantly weighs that part, the incoherent authorities are being controlled, both the founder and the ministry, but also when transparency in business offers some solutions that are much better than we've had so far. I'd like a few words just to say about a law that we seem to have neglected, which is the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. First of all, I want to say this because of the citizens who are watching us, and it seems to me that in the debate so far, they didn't have enough information on what this law is about. For this law, the government and the ministry deserve all praise. The government and the ministry have recognised that at the time of reforms, when business activity inevitably falls, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises have a growing liquidity problem and have made it possible, in this way, for those entities that have a problem with paying taxes to have tax burdens reprogramme up to 60 months, thus creating space to be small and medium-sized enterprises, and also physically covered by this law, financially disbursement, to normalise their business, to preserve jobs at the moment when we go to increasingly serious restructuring of the entire economy and to encourage economic activity as much as possible at the moment. So, it's important to say that, as I said, we have a deferral of the debt to the wars and we have a write-off of the bill, and unpaid interest for debts that don't go beyond two million dinars. That's what's important for small and medium-sized enterprises, for our entrepreneurs, and that the interest after that agreement with the tax administration will be at the level of the reference interest rate that is over 4%, which is also important for the remaining debts, not as large as it has been so far. So these other laws that are currently in front of us are extremely good, in favour of the economy, and we will have the opportunity to discuss these solutions through the amendments. As I said at the beginning, I hope in some part and we can improve them. All the support and honor of the government for the laws it has prepared for us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50459	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50460	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues, I will speak very briefly about a law that should not be passed by emergency procedure, which is the Law on Public Health, but a law that should be passed by the most urgent procedure. Twelve and over years, the struggle of all doctors, preventive branches, hygienic specialists, epidemiology, social medicine for an equal relationship and for respect. Previous government, the previous DS regime destroyed everything, including the health system and public health institutions, completely deleted from the list practically health institutions. Thanks to enthusiasm and struggles and doctors and associates who are employed in public health services, today we have a new law and I am obliged to thank our minister for recognising the importance of public health and for properly presenting it to the Serbian Government, and she has implemented it and is presenting it to us today. We can take a break today as well as specialists in medical work that are also covered by this law. I think this is just the beginning of restoring the dignity of prevention in Serbia. I have to point out once again, doctors and associates in public health services are discreet people, unobtrusive and that's good. If in one country they are not represented in television shows, if they are not on all TV channels, that's good. It means that the epidemiological situation is peaceful and the state is stable. We are responsible for the state of the nation's health, and we have a great responsibility. We've managed to preserve the nation's health, and now we're moving on to new victories to raise our economy and achieve what our government has plotted. I have to look at a few comments from my colleagues when the Health Protection Act is about the population of infectious diseases, I don't think the team that gets should change, and the team that gets it is immunization. Many diseases and tuberculosis and diphtheria have just been redacted, or eradicated by immunisation. It doesn't have to be experimented, I think it would cost us dearly. There are such resistant new layers that we don't know what we'd get if we got into a situation to treat patients who got sick. So prevention involves also immunization, and that includes mandatory immunisation of hepatitis B doctors. Therefore, this is something that is necessary. We can talk about it. We can discuss it, but it's still a team that wins. Thanks again to the government. Thanks again to the ministry for having the understanding and for the first time in the budget, they also put public health budgeting in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-22-0.u50461	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 1 to 14 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 1900 hours.
