ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-10-0.u9802	I conclude the vote and declare that there are none, for—eight, against—no abstentions—out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was filed by nine MPs from the DS parliamentary group and MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – there are of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, among the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – there are 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – there are of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned among the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, among the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sukic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstention for – 17, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic and together by four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment in the same text, MP Miroslav Aleksic and MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 17th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstention for – 17, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 19th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Milorad Mircic, together with nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group and together five MPs of the SDS-NPS group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Delic and Milorad Mircic and MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 21st amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovo Ostojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic and Milorad Mircic and together by five MPs of the SDS group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and together by five MPs of the SDS group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Belačić and Milorad Mircic submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I ask fellow MPs to die a little so we can continue our work. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slavisa Ristic, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Slavisa Ristic and Djorđa Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic and together by five MPs of the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Dubravka Bojic, and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 35th amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no two abstentions for – five against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic together submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against two, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – 25 abstentions – there are no, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have concluded our decision on the amendments, I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – 26 abstentions – there are no, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2017. We now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2017. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – 21, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2017. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2017. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 152 against – 17 abstentions – for – 152. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2017. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2017. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 155, against – 17 abstentions – for – 155. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Services for 2017. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – eight, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2017. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – 13, abstention – one, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Sreta Peric and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Milorad Mircic and Jovo Ostojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. 12 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The first amendment was submitted by the people sent by Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – 12, abstentions – no, no vote 11. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how pensions are paid. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 6 December 2016, at 13 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – five against – three abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 6 December 2016, at 16 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – five, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 12 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – eight, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 17 hours and 06 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 17 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one to - seven against - two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 17 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – three, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 17 hours and 21 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 8 December 2016, at 19 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 11 o'clock and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – eight, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 11 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 12 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 10 against – four abstentions. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 14 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vera Paunovic, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 14 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 15 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 15 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 9 December 2016, at 17 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you.
