ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1842	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister of State Administration, distinguished secretaries, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Svrljig, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I will speak here and represent in the Serbian Parliament the United Peasant Party and I have been elected from the SNS list. Otherwise, I said, I come from the municipality of Srlig, where you were yesterday at a meeting and said that the Municipality of Srljig is one of the few municipalities which is an example of how it should be done domestically and responsibly. The municipality of Svrljig is a municipality which is one of the most underdeveloped, but it respected the rules as we in our municipality of Svrljig do not have more employees of less than 22 employees. These funds we didn't give to employees, we allocated them to build a sports hall, to build a pool, to build kindergartens, to stimulate newly born couples. I can say, I was also the president of the municipality, that the Municipality of Srlig is an example of how it should be done. Otherwise, the bill of this law I will support both as a man and as an MP, because I think that all the presidents of the municipalities and the municipal leadership must be responsible, must follow how they work in the municipality, and to be employed and to do some things that are not good for the citizens. In the previous period, I was always for all those proposals proposed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, because by voting for this law, the vote is for both the future of our children and the future of their children. We must save, but on the other hand, everyone who runs the municipalities must be responsible, must follow the projects. One thing that's very important, I'm going to suggest now from this place, because it's very easy to spend the budget, normally, we need to look for opportunities to stimulate employment, we need to provide an increase, for this difference that we're getting off, these 6%. I proposed to the Ministry of Finance in the previous period, we have a legal one in 1992, the Law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages to use. I suggest we withdraw that law, put it out of force, because we have large areas of parcels, fields, which are unusable or usurped. By this law, when we withdraw this law from the procedure, we give local self-governments the opportunity to issue this land, to put land into operation, and thus they can fill their budgets. That was my proposal and on a large number of subcommittees that I also had on the Committee on Agriculture. One more thing, the big problem of all local self-government is stray dogs. That's what I have to say as a man, because in the previous period a large number of stray dogs had problems with people, and therefore a large number of municipalities were burdened with lawsuits and charges of these bites. As a result, I propose that as many municipalities as possible prepare asylums for dogs as possible and that, normally, as many municipalities as possible, provide funds through projects so that they can develop. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our prime minister, stands out large funds for local self-government for southeast Serbia. I will support this bill and support all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1843	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1844	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I want to say one more thing about Srlig. If anyone hasn't heard from me yesterday, a really special commendation for Srlig. Devasted municipality, one of the best in Serbia, the most professional. I said, there are 22 employees, less than the prescribed number, a decision on the maximum number of employees, no credit debt. At the end of 2012, meaning four years ago, a local self-government that completed the transfer of data from home books into electronic form and began to apply it, a devastated municipality. The purpose is only 17% of the cost of employees at the total expenditures of local self-government. So only 17% gives for wages, the rest goes into investment maintenance and is therefore one of the top 10 local self-governments in Serbia. So thank you again and well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1845	Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1846	Thank you very much. The law is another law that goes towards Serbia being centralized in the worst possible way, to continue "virtual reality", which should convince us that this is the most successful government in the country's history, that it will be the first government to achieve a surplus in the budget. I think the minister and her associates, perhaps one of the members of the government, should know that the surplus is worse than the deficit, because that means you took something that belongs to someone. This surplus is made in a way that besides pensioners who have been kidnapped, besides doctors, teachers, teachers, scientists, besides babies who have been kidnapped by a dinar that is now being taken for VAT, local self-government should now be the victims of this great idea that Serbia's government achieves a surplus. Four point eight billion, when translated into Serbian, slightly less than 40m euros, for Serbia's budget very small funds, almost insignificant, for local self-government, very large. I've been checking on several cities these few percent are the total funds that these cities give or should give or finance, say, school painting, or those are funds that are double the total amount of money that these municipalities and cities single for culture, for programs in culture. It's the consequence of this law. Of course, there remains the privileged position of good students, as the minister who is not listening yesterday said, and these good students have provided themselves with special funding either in the coalition agreement or otherwise. It would be nice for the finance ministry to give a review of the municipalities that have received extra funding in the last four years. Let's say, Jagodina. It's a very successful municipality and it's very strange why every month it gets 20-30 million from the current liquidity budget. It's a question to ask. The International Monetary Fund is guilty, says the minister, of what has to happen. That's not true. The International Monetary Fund is neither the Supreme Judge nor the Lord God, nor the Commissioner, but it is an institution, an organisation negotiated and negotiated with it, and that means you've negotiated badly. This means that you have negotiated at the expense of Serbian citizens, to the detriment of local self-government. In 2003, they asked for an increase in electricity prices, so the negotiations gave up and could be done. The point is that the current minister, as well as her predecessor and most of the government, does not understand the essence of local self-government. You are not here to judge who is a good student, who is not a good student, who has crossed the material well, who is not, whom the material has drawn. Local self-government has its own needs. Transferred responsibilities and original responsibilities of local self-government are such that you can't judge them for what they are and how much they cost, but it's a matter of the essence of local self-government. Serbia's decentralisation should not go through regions, it is a completely pointless thing, but should go through strengthening local self-government, which is not done by this law, but goes in the opposite direction entirely. I'm telling you this as a man who's had the good fortune of being twice a councilman in local self-government, twice a mayor, chosen twice to be in federal and republican administration and in the Republic Parliament and in the Federal Parliament, and that experience, except for some, and they'll be bothered for a very long time, is something to be respected. Local self-government has its own serious place in the division of power. Anything that should be transmitted should be transmitted to them immediately. Smart government at the central level transfers its competences to those to whom it naturally belongs, and that doesn't happen here. On the contrary, we have here a mass of usurpation functions and jurisdiction of local self-government by the central government, and they are left without money. Of course they'll get support for this bill, of course 150 municipalities have given support because they're loyal party people who don't have to think, but they have to listen, but this is a very bad law. Finally, in the end, all the smart, honest, brave people, who are patriots, congratulations on October 5th, the great day of modern Serbian history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1847	Just no offense for bearers of functions in local self-government. These are people who have been elected by Serbian citizens and of course think, not to listen, but to think. As President of Parliament, I remind you, not officially as a warning measure, not to use such expressions for people who... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: I can explain.) No, no. Next time. You'll get a chance when the Minister answers. So we don't insult people who are carriers of local self-government. They have the right to their political stance, not to say they don't think. They're thinking. Zoran Zivkovic throws. ) The word is Ana Brnabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1848	Thank you. First of all, as far as centralization is concerned, yesterday we've been listening all day, all afternoon about that centralization. I haven't really heard any serious argument so far about how you, why this bill tells you to go into new centralization. On the contrary, I've made three arguments, but I'm going to say it again today all day long, it's no problem at all. This bill takes an average difference in the budget between what was and what would be if this esteemed parliament adopts this bill, is 2.3%. Unlike taking redistributions from local self-government, and it is not easy for anyone, this government has adopted the largest number of recommendations from cities and municipalities, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities in the technical mandate. So we heard and adopted and changed more than we heard and changed before and we received support from the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. Now you're going to tell us that the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities gives support because only SNS municipalities are in the presidency of the Permanent Conference? Who's to blame? So the citizens voted, and now what, are the citizens guilty of voting? He's got a so-called. opposition municipalities in the presidency of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and they recognized that this was good for the state. So we got support. I don't know how to tell you now. You say now – well you got support because citizens voted, 99% of municipalities are SNS. Okay, they got support because the government is going to a savings and rationalization policy. I guess that's why they got the support. This bill of law is in the same manner. As far as the surplus is concerned, it's a debt-refunding surplus, I guess. This government promotes Serbia as a country that respects commitments and we can ask whether these commitments were good when they were taken over, whether the credit conditions were good or bad at the time, but we have to pay them back because Serbia is a responsible country that deserves respect and this is how respect is shown. I'm terrible, I'm really terrible, I'm not good at political fighting, you're saying it's taken from babies. That's pretty low for me. It's not okay, it's not for parliamentary debate and this is the worst I've heard since I entered this parliament, but well, it doesn't matter. So you're not taking VAT from babies. What we're doing is changing the way that VAT is given to allow parents to get VAT easier, not to collect... I don't understand. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You cannot speak to me personally. All right. I'm new to Parliament. I'm inexperienced in parliament, and this is what hit me. Excuse me. So, in addition, I think next week we're going to promote this "Bebo Welcome to the World" project, which currently works in 50 maternity homes in Serbia and by the end of the year will be operational in all Serbia's maternity homes, where parents don't have to fill out more applications and forms, but e-mail the baby in 10 minutes free of charge and at the address where the baby is registered, the state sends them data, a copy of birth certificates, a health insurance card. So it will become much easier now than it was before and automatically with this process will go VAT application. As for the negotiations with the IMF, I think I explained that a lot yesterday. IMF proposals are not taken, you said so yourself when you mentioned the price of electricity, healthy for granted and not respected 100%. We negotiate and find ways. After all, the result of the negotiations is that eight billion dinars are not taken here, but 4.8 billion dinars. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1849	First, I must give my word to Peter Petrovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then tell you that you too do not have the right to speak directly to the minister and to throw it to her – do not speak to me like that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You didn't hear me well. I'm a great listener. I don't see well, but I hear perfectly. So, you talk to me if you have any objection to any behavior. The minister is an excellent and expert minister. There is not enough experience in this arena, but I am convinced that at the end of today's session he will dominate. That's what I'm convinced of. We'll give her support for that. Here you are, Ambassador Petar Petrovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. A member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1850	Madam President, the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 106, Paragraph 1, 2, 3. That the speaker may speak only of the agenda. Today is not the item of the agenda of the distribution of funds to municipalities and cities. Mr. previous speaker mentioned Jagodina. For the sake of the public, I must say that Jagodina does not receive donations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that she only received at the end of last year because of the flood for compensation to citizens who have suffered damage to certain funds, but by means of her own resources provides what needs to be done for the functioning of the city of Jagodina. By the way, I mean, at the time of the Lord's reign, who spoke before me, Mr. Zivkovic, in Jagodina, there were over 15,000 people out of work. The cable factory had 8,500 people, and there were 6,500 people left without a job, "Pivar" so there is no "Resava", "Minel" and not to list the other companies. So this government has put Jagodina in a position to provide social needs and meet the workers. By the way, when Mr. Zivkovic ruled in Nis...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1851	Ambassador, please, you've entered the line. Ambassador, you've entered the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1852	And when we talk about the Vineyard, he only entered the vineyard when he was forced into need, because there was nowhere else in the toilet, so he had to go to the vineyard. Now, that's his knowledge of viticulture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1853	Ambassador, we're not going to discuss a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MPs have the right not to know what this is about, so I can't be a speech censor in that very sense. And on the other hand, you've entered a replica and I consider it as if you weren't looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Ambassador Zivkovic, exactly who? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Ministers, direct surprise, insult. () Surprise, it is allowed, may be surprising, but in what sense is the insult? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: that something I said was the lowest she heard. All right, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1854	So it's taken from babies, and it's low and it's the lowest thing that's been done to them, not what I've ever pointed out. That babies will be easily reported when they are born...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1855	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1856	... It's the most normal thing in the world. You want to measure that with the price of milk? Why are babies in this country being treated through text messages? Tell me, not these other things. It's a completely pointless thing. You said you were paying back your debts, and what debts have Alexander Vukic's government paid back in the last four years? The debts were 16 billion, now they're 26. How do debt returns and debt increases? What school does that teach? What science can explain that to us? So, don't take the wrong word for it, like you presidents did, I said -- those mayors don't have to think, I didn't say they don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1857	But to be obedient, say the whole sentence. That's very offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1858	That they don't have to think, but to be obedient and that's the exact thing, don't talk about it. It wasn't any different before this government, to be clear, that we're not getting into that part now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1859	So, generally for all authorities, an insult to everything from the multiparty system to the next.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1860	Let me finish my two minutes, and then you give me a replica later. Finally, throwing through the breach of the Rules of Procedure that we are not talking today about financing municipalities, but about something else, I'm really sorry, it's true that you said MPs don't have to know what the subject is, but you need to know what the topic is like as president and it's nice that you pointed out to a respected colleague that he missed the topic when he reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Generally, the law sucks, the law destroys...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1861	Thanks, it's been a while, and you wanted to replicate, not get two more minutes to say something about the bill. You must explicitly replicate the person you were looking for. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1862	I thank the esteemed president. A member of Article 107(1) who says that the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I thank you, you did warn Mr. Zivkovic of one part of disrespect for dignity in this assembly, but the other part of you failed to warn him and you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Namely, from a pay phone in the congregation hall to congratulate the coup, the day when a violent incursion was committed to this congregation, when this congregation was burned, robbed, and there was an insult left to each of us who is in this room. For this kind of behavior, you would expect to at least give Mr. Zivkovic a warning, because this is not the first time, and probably not the last time unless you apply the funds you have been given here as someone who manages the session to put up with such insults here in the Assembly. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1863	There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Everyone has certain political feelings and has the right to defend them here in parliament, so I cannot censor MPs when they want to say something from their political spectrum. I'll keep my private opinion on the burning of the Assembly, so I don't get trapped, that we get into replicas. If you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I may have done, just let me know. (No) I thank you. Zoran Zivkovic has no right to replication. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1864	Dear President, you have injured Ruler 108 by giving Mr Petrovic a word on the mention of Jagodina. Yesterday, all the debates were mentioned both Injia and my municipality and Kragujevac, and none of us got the right to reply, so I ask you to be equal to all MPs. If, on the mention of Jagodina, mentioned by Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Petrovic can get the right to the replica because he is from Jagodina, then yesterday he should have received the word Mr. Stevanović on the mention of Kragujevac, Mr. Goran Jesic, whom you interrupted the transfer of the session in order not to hear his presentation, to the mention of Indija. As for October 5th, October 5th is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1865	Thank you so much for your lecture on October 5th. Sit down so I don't take two minutes from your MP group. No one can hear you, sit down. So, I'm not gonna let you lecture on October 5th today. We simply don't care, we'll talk about the law we have before us. Thank you very much, enough of us are witnesses of what's been going on. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, when you raise your book, I have to give you my word, and only then comes approval or sanctions, whether you have abused or not. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1866	Thank you. I am surprised by myself, for the first time, it is realistic that I agree with the MP, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. I think it's the most normal thing for babies to register electronically, that parents shouldn't when they get a baby to run around local self-government, by counters, to collect papers, but to be at home with that baby, and the state to send home all the data. Unfortunately, it will only happen now, or already happening in 50% of Serbia, has not happened before, but we agree that it is the most normal thing and when it is the most normal thing and probably the easiest thing in the world, then you could have done it yourself. As for the debate in parliament, I apologize to this House for my inexperience, ignorance of the rules. I'll try to fix it in my work. I was absolutely provoked to say that this government is taking from babies one dinar, I don't think it's a culture of parliamentary dialogue. In doing so, I think it's an absolute and notorious lie, and we have facts for that. It's not a fact when you say no, it takes, and I say it doesn't, but we have proof that it doesn't take, and you'll see it next week, if you don't know it now, but I guess you do. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Let's see now.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1867	Don't throw away the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1868	After all, my experience is certainly limited in these debates. My focus is work and results, your focus is story, and I will always decide to work, not talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1869	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1870	One of the speakers from the former regime and the former prime minister mentioned that the government of Aleksandar Vukic is kidnapping from pensioners, from babies, from staff in the administration. And he also said that the public debt, when Alexander Vucic entered power, was 16 billion euros, and now it's 26. It was 19 billion, and now it's 24. The 19 add 2.5 hidden in the budget and a billion per year interest to be paid on debts left by the former government. Only this year, 176 billion dinars of interest on loans raised by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Captain Titanic. If we talk about who took him, he kidnapped the former regime and, say, through the Vojvodine Development Bank 400m euros, so he took from the children distracted in the development of the ruins paid for by 150m dinars, so they took over Agrobanks, so they took over the exchange rates, so they took over investments that never ended. If kidnapping is from the people building roads, infrastructure, creating conditions for the opening of power plants and drive and new jobs, if you call it kidnapping, it's an honor to you. The kidnapping is "Agrobanka", kidnapping is "Vojvodine Development Bank", kidnapping job losses. And "Metals Bank" is on the list, of course. And "Sartid" was kidnapping. How did you privatize “Sartid”? By taking away the local jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Pozarevec, you transferred to Belgrade and sold the Buddha for what. What are you talking about? And then someone else kidnapped her? No, you've been kidnapped, and now we're returning to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1871	Time. Thank you, MP. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1872	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. You have injured Article 27, which obliges you to maintain order in the National Assembly, applying Articles 104 and 106. It is unacceptable for a member of the government in addressing the Assembly to say - I don't know the rule and I'm not here to talk, I'm here to work. You, Minister, are... Or, I apologize, I ask the President of the Assembly to explain to the minister that he is in parliament. The root of the words called this institution is – speak. Try to disrespect every... (Vojislav Seselj, from town: chat. People’s MPs earn – chat. Everyone's got their own style. The people's messenger who throws away, he chats, I talk. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Which? ) The MP tries to challenge the replica, to find another message for such games.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1873	Please, speak to me, which is where I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and don't talk to anyone who says anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1874	I ask you to secure order at the session, since MPs are trying skills for which they are not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1875	I will, from this second on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1876	I ask you first to tell your colleagues and colleagues in the Government to read carefully the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly before they come here, and secondly not to demean the work of the Members of Parliament by setting themselves up, and speaking at this session more than any MP of the people, in the position that you work and not the MPs. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What does it mean carefully? ) For MPs who do not know the word “supervised, ” I refer them to the President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1877	MPs, speak to me. You're in violation of the Rules of Procedure, you talk to Minister Ana Brnabic all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1878	I'm talking to you. So there are some MPs who do not understand the word “supervise, ” so I would ask you to explain to them what it means, since I have no dilemma that you know what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1879	Do you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure? I'll explain it to you first. Of course the Minister knows why she's here. First of all, to defend the bill, not to argue, not to bring this debate down to banalism and to respond to any insult directed towards it, exclusively to it today, and that is my general objection to all of you. She didn't say in a bad context she didn't know the rules of the Rules of Procedure well. That's no big deal, not even the MPs, which is even worse, so most often they abuse the rules that really exist, and a little they stick to. So I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. I could have been stricter to the MPs, and that wouldn't have liked the MPs whose direction I'm looking at right now. I didn't want to say the penalties right away at the beginning of our work, because we're here today to talk about one specific thing, not to talk about everything and everything, and we didn't come here today to complete the Radio Belgrade programme in that show "Wish and Congratulations", so I kept it quiet. So it's not easy to run a session, but thank you for your warning. Now I'm going to start running the session properly. So I ask all MPs not to press this button, because I will be blind to it, and I will give my word to the next MP in a row, to talk about the bill. If he doesn't talk about the bill... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! I decide on replicas, there's no basis for replication. Article 104 was no basis for replication. The word is News Tonchev. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure! ) Abuse of Rules of Procedure, refrain from taking two minutes at a time. Your intentions are bad. The word is Novica Tončev, and be prepared Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1880	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, today we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which stipulates that the revenue of the budget of the municipalities from the income tax is reduced to 74% instead of so far. Many colleagues from local self-government will say that this is a significant loss of funds, but I must point out that I am happy that this percentage is no longer reduced, because this proposal is far better and more favourable than the earlier proposal that envisioned a reduction from 80% to 50%. But such a proposal, fortunately, did not come before us MPs. That is why I would like to thank you today, too, Minister, Dusan Vujovic and the Prime Minister, for having had an understanding of the needs of municipalities and cities, which means every dinar in the cash register for financing current and capital expenditures. In the media, I have seen a statement by the Minister of Local Self-Government that after the amendments to this law, there will be an amendment to the law by the government supporting this reduction through funding various infrastructure projects to compensate for the loss of income tax. This idea is certainly good and should be supported, but we have one proposal that I would like to specifically consider at the Ministry of Finance, which is to reduce the participation of municipalities in co-financing of projects that are being implemented in collaboration with our government. So far, there has been approximately a mandatory percentage of the rate of funding from the 50% budget, while the remaining 50% has been provided from the Republic's budget. Many municipalities are not able to provide 50% of the money for capital projects and therefore remain deprived or discriminated against those municipalities that this percentage can provide. So I propose that, depending on the degree of underdevelopment of municipalities and cities, this formula is changed in the next period, because I believe it would speed up even more projects that could be financed from the Republic's budget, which would also be accessible to poor municipalities. Here, let me give you an example. The economy ministry has announced a competition that we can participate in infrastructure projects, which says 50% is the ministry's participation, and 50% is local self-government, with local self-government paying an additional value tax, which also requires additional funding. Or, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture for Atari Roads. Last year there was 20% participation from municipalities, 80 ministries. Now that percentage has increased – 47% of local self-government and 53% of the agriculture ministry. So I'm asking you to make an effort in the future, especially for underdeveloped municipalities. As for Minister Vujovic's proposal for the award of certain municipalities or the president of municipalities, I agree, but the principles for this award should be applied. As far as the Surdulci municipality is concerned, I know she'll be the best because she's the only municipality run by the Socialists, so I'm not afraid of it, so whatever the principles are. The second part of my speech will apply to the compensation for the use of public goods. The law on the financing of local self-government, Article 6 of point 5, says – the local self-government unit is the original income realised on its territory, i.e. the so-called compensation for the use of public goods or in a people known as the mining rental. Since today is about funding local self-government, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and call on the competent Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Mining and the Minister of Local Self-Government to consider a different model of payment of income based on the mining rent. It is known that Serbia has prescribed the lowest rate of mineral rent in Europe and I really don't see an excuse why it is so, if we all know how much damage is done to the environment by exploiting mineral raw materials. According to information known to the public, only three and a half billion dinars per year are charged by the state in the name of the mining rent, and I think it is a small amount for the state of Serbia, which is very rich in mineral raw materials. According to the current law, the mining rent of municipalities accounts for about 40% of the income and, if it is charged at all, serves to improve the living conditions of citizens, especially for building infrastructure and protecting the environment. Personally, I think that the 40% rate as the income of municipalities is low, that we should think about increasing this percentage, and even consider that the total amount charged on the basis of the mining rent belongs to local self-government. The reason is simple – because the biggest damage is local self-government. Although such a law has been passed, the government has passed a regulation that this law is applicable and that the funds charged go directly to the Republic of Serbia's budget, except for this does not apply to the AP Vojvodina. So I ask you, dear minister, to make sure this is done, that local self-government has some benefit from compensation, what nature has given them. I want to dedicate the third part of my speech here on issues of local self-government to the realisation of the IPA project, or cross-border co-operation. I have to say that the Surdulica municipality was realised, last year and before last year, by IPA projects worth over five million euros, and that, currently, since it was almost a competition, it has allocated three contractual projects over a million euros. However, there has been a legal and perhaps political problem that could lead to Surdulica municipality losing these projects financed from the IPA project. The problem is that we do not know how to engage people in the implementation of these projects, without being accused by political insinuators or the budgetary inspection of the finance ministry of committing a criminal act. So far, we've been doing it through a contract of work with employees who know the problem of projects and, normally, to speak English. All contracts and reports are controlled by a donor from the European Union and its external auditor, and everything is verified, and then it is disputed by the Ministry of Finance's budgetary inspection. We can't hire people from the street or unemployed from the bureau because they're specific jobs, and we can't hire people from Belgrade so we can pay for their living and travel expenses and accommodations in Surdulica. That is why I call on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Self-Government to solve this problem with common forces, by bringing in some instructions or regulations that we will apply to the realisation of IPA projects. Also, the problem with IPA projects is co-financing. In fact, with each project, the municipality should single out one 15% of its participation, and the other thing is that the European Union is paying us back money for realised projects only when projects are realized. That's why municipalities come into a situation where they have to raise loans, make them real, pay for situations, or services, and then when we get that money back from the IPA project, we pay back the loans, but we pay the expensive interest. For this reason, we should also consider here that the Ministry of Finance should help us with the implementation of these projects. I am happy that our municipality, or municipality of Surdulica, has implemented so many projects because without these projects, they would remain even more underdeveloped. I thank you for listening to me. I just want to say another problem that we have, which is the citizens of the wheat and apple region, which is the sewerage or sewage ring project on Lake Vlassin. In fact, the European Union has created a project, the Surdulica Municipality license, the European Union offers us funding for co-financing, but we as a poor municipality have no money for it, so I ask you to set aside at least a piece by piece in the next budget, we don't have to do this project suddenly, which is eight million euros, but we can start doing it piece by piece. So I ask you, Madam Minister, to advocate in the next budget to enter some part of the budget, some part of the funds will be made by us from local self-government, one part will be given by the European Union to start this project that is very important for these two regions. I thank you once again for listening to me and I hope you will assist all local self-government in your work. Happy work I wish you in the follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1882	Thank you. I have reported a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, article 107. Namely, since the minister said in her address that her focus was work and results, and that our focus was stories, I think it was underestimating the MPs. Our focus, of course, is not just talking here, but above all what's being said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1883	It's already been an observation, so you can't talk about the same thing twice. Thank you. Minister, I'm the only one who's responsible for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, don't at all, it's manners, it's probably the strongest we can hear today. The word is Marko Djurisic, and let Gorica Gajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1884	Dear Presidents, honourable minister, fellow MPs, I think that today's and yesterday's discussions speak in what tone dialogue will take place between the government and local self-government and why the bill is bad. We hear there's a good proposal that needs to improve the lives of two districts, but then we hear there's no money for it, and then we hear a request from the government that the government give something. Now, that's called centralization. When you take money from local self-government, then you decide at the central level how much, what and how you give to which municipality. That's why we're against this law. You are further centralizing political and economic life in Serbia with this law. More money, and that is the essence of this law, will remain at the central level rather than at the local level, contrary to best practice and European values. My colleague from the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, spoke precisely in the numbers that have been reduced in the last four years to the participation of local budgets in total finance, which is the level desired in Europe. We're going in the opposite direction from that European. What was the idea of providing additional money in the state budget, if we're listening here to the surplus of 120 billion? Then what are the other five for? Why will that money be spent? It's not here. We have announcements that the government will help, and you said it yourself, those municipalities or cities that now lack the means to complete some projects, the government will meet them. What are these projects? What are these criteria? Is it going to be a criterion again whether your dad's the President of the Republic so your city gets money from the budget or not? Are these the criteria in Serbia that apply today? What are you gonna do with that money? What is the goal of government policy in Serbia? It's put here on the highest postulate budget. The budget serves to implement some policies, not to exist for itself, in some balance, or not, but to spend some of the money collected from Serbian citizens on the benefit of Serbian citizens, not to stand somewhere and talk about how many there are. That's not the point of politics. I don't understand why and what these five billion will be for, if it's 120 more? To make it even more? Where's that benefit for Serbian citizens? Could the government make a decision to, say, fix thunderstorms in all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia? It's probably not a lot of money, it's certainly much, much less than these five billion that this law will keep. Why am I talking about it? Two young girls were killed this summer by lightning strikes in Alexandrovac. Then there was the story that the municipality didn't have 100,000 dinars to fix it. What is the cost of human life today in Serbia? Is it important how much we have in the budget, or how we will improve the lives of Serbian citizens? I'm going to give you a proposal today, Minister. I could have, if you had come with that proposal, along with these amendments and additions to the law, which are two members, that's all the government has managed to do in two months, that you came and said -- we're going to reduce the share of the income tax that goes to local self-government, but we're going to cut the income tax, and it's finally starting to reduce the tax burden on profits paid in Serbia, it's today the largest in the region, and it's certainly going to tell you as a problem for Serbia that the tax on earnings is too large and it hasn't been reduced by any single change in the last five years. Hand to heart, they haven't been cut before. But, come on now, if there's that 120 billion already in the surplus budget, and you're not going to return what you've taken back to the pensioners and employees of the state administration, come on, cut the income tax by one percent, that's about how much I've done the math, what more money will be left for the central budget now. Show that you really want some reforms. This isn't reform law. And I have to notice one thing - you have no experience in political life, because here you said and admitted that the government was breaking the law, where you were talking about the technical government talking to someone and negotiating. You know, the technical government, by law, can only do urgent jobs, so says the law, because it has no legitimacy, and since it is in the technical mandate, it cannot talk, negotiate and negotiate. Well, you admitted that this government, technically, you weren't part of it, broke the law. Maybe that's why we waited four months for the government to form after the election – because someone didn't want to work under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1885	There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1886	Once again, let me try to state the basic reasons for this law, but we'll be back in the debate from yesterday. So in 2011, we had, again, a completely amazing increase in the share of local self-government in profit tax, from 40% to 80%, which is not a practice in any country. We had this decision that, hand to heart, the MPs said yesterday, that wasn't me saying, which was a couple of excellencies political. We had a pension increase in 2008. It's also a political decision. None of the other decisions were based on analyses and on the plan of what would happen to Serbia, its citizens and local self-government if all of this grew. That didn't matter at the time. Now there is a government that has to change those decisions and make unpopular moves to correct such decisions in favour of Serbian citizens, and ultimately, in favour of these local self-government and struggled not to have this balance violated, unfortunately at this point, in such a way as to endanger the sustainable financing of local self-government and the quality of services they provide to citizens. That's the point of this. So, correcting mistakes from the past, and I think the Fiscal Council said that, and I wouldn't say that the Fiscal Council is an unobstructed institution and that it's not professional enough. As far as the technical government is concerned, I said there were some comments in the public debate at the time of the previous government, at the time of its term of office – December 2015. There were comments, and this government adopted them. As for the Alexandro, I understand the political debate and that we're going to go to the government to take one dinar from the babies, and now we're going to die two girls and it's all part of a political debate. I'm honestly not up for it, but okay. Alexander's is certainly one of those municipalities where there's a lot of work to do with it, so we can all work together in these finances. Alexandrovac is, for example, a local self-government that gives even 33% of its budget to salaries which is beyond a republican average that is not good itself, so it's possible that Alexandrovac is doing business in a better way and it has nothing to do with these 2.3% difference in the budget. So she will neither help Alexanderover nor help him to set up a thunderstorm if the local self-government wants to set up a thunderstorm, and the previous government has adopted, or has begun to apply, governments have adopted before that, this government has begun to apply control methods of spending the finances of local self-government, and ultimately how many people are employed and how much pay is spent, so we will continue in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1887	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1888	I volunteered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Gojkovic, because I think it's a shame that the two girls' deaths are used as an argument in the political debate. If we go like that, then we could count the dead from the lightning strike at a time when the president of the Republic was Boris Tadic, and say Boris Tadic was guilty because someone in Serbia was struck by lightning. Secondly, Mr Marko Djurisic violated the dignity of the National Assembly and by trying to deceive both the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia by referring to some law that speaks of some technical government that dares and does not do anything. Here, I now urge Mr Mark Djurisic to say in what law of the Republic of Serbia is the concept of the technical government in general? So, what is the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia allegedly technically violated? At the time Mr. Djurisic's party led this country, we had a growth rate of 2008, 2009, 2010 from minus four. So, not that Serbia wasn't in plus, but we had a negative growth rate, we were one of the worst countries in Europe. For the first eight months of this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to allow GDP growth of 2.8%, almost 3%...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1889	Ambassador, you've entered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1890	We have growth in industrial production, agricultural production, increased traffic in retail trade. This means that citizens gradually feel better from day to day because of the government's positive work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1891	Thank you. You think I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1892	No, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1893	I agree with you in the first part of the discussion. If you want to vote, I think I should have intervened. Thank you. Marko Djurisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1894	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I think he's a injured member of 103 who's talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure and how he's used here in the debate. You yourself, even after a minute of how much the previous speaker used to hurt the Rules of Procedure for replicating me to my presentation, directly calling me a few times to give the answer reacted, but too late. About that, and here, should I try to answer if you'll allow me now, or will you give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1895	It's very difficult when it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know that yourself. You can answer briefly how much he's in one minute, and then I'll be a tolerance to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1896	I'll answer. I used arguments in a political debate because something happened in the state of Serbia because it didn't do its job at all. She didn't do what she was supposed to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1897	Don't let us fall into the trap again. I was wrong to interrupt you, we can't talk about the deaths of people in the state, we should have a certain limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1898	I'm sorry, so we can talk about it if people's lives are lost because of the country's carelessness. It's a place...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1899	Okay. Thank you. We understood my mistake, I should have interrupted you. It's my fault that I let you all exercise your right after you've broken the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a replica, there's no basis, there's no insult just an answer. [[Marko Djurisic, from the post: Can I get a replica at the presentation of Ms. Minister?]] So your parliamentary group has spent six minutes and zero six seconds and no one else can speak from your parliamentary group anymore. Thank you. The word has Gorica Gajic and be prepared Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1900	Dear Miss Minister and Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs as much as this government has been reducing the budget deficit and fiscal consolidation of imperatives, and I would say obsession, because in the last few months it has been described as the biggest achievement of this government's work for a few years, says first and foremost this first item of the First Fall Session agenda, the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government. And not less or less, we will take that law, or reduce the income to local self-government, we have heard it more than once yesterday and today by 4.8% of the money and transfer it to the Republic budget, through only two items -- by eradicating the income from the immovable tax with an explanation that this will be regulated by another law and what is much more important by taking, i.e. by reducing the income from the profit tax on cities from 80% to 77% for municipalities from 80% to 74% and for Belgrade from 70% to 66%. The first sentence or the first one they explained was that this was the result of an agreement with the IMF. I would say that's not your deal, because when you sit down at an IMF table, at least in a situation where we are now as a state, there are no negotiations, there are conditions for the IMF to meet those conditions. We do not dispute that the budget deficit should be kept under control, but please whose burden should be increased by the revenue side of the budget and who should be saving to reduce the expenditure? If we look at what's been done over the last few years, we've transferred that burden to employees and pensioners by reducing wages by 10% and reducing pensions, and we all know what the salaries are today in the public sector of 40,000-50,000 dinars, so I ask you do you think we're also highly educated today to bring poor people down? Now the local self-governments are coming in and out. I guess it's the easiest thing to take where they'll least rebel. And now we've come to realize that we need to patch up the republican register, the state register with almost five billion dinars, and take it to someone rather than to local self-government. And as it usually happens, first of all, it comes out in public as it did in reducing wages and pensions that it will decrease 20% or 30%, that this income from the profit tax will be reduced by local self-government by 50%, and then, of course, everyone is rebelling, and then allegedly in some negotiations, the talks bring it down to this percentage that is now in the bill and then everyone is satisfied. I guess there's a soft reaction or almost no reaction from most of the mayors and president of the municipalities that even more praises the move of you as Minister and Minister of Finance, which will spill the entire five billion from local self-government into the republican register. Does this mean that these mayors and representatives of local self-government care about their local budget and how they will patch up and how they will close their debts or listen to their headquarters and, of course, agree with all this is proposed. We agree that funding of local self-government should be systematically arranged and you have repeatedly reiterated that sources of funding for local self-government must be primarily predictable, have to be sufficient and have to be stable. These are the principles that local self-government leaders can agree on and say – yes, we can now plan our revenues and our budget for next year. You know that this is autumn and that budget preparations are being made for next year, and I don't think they'll be predictable and I don't think they'll be enough because this spill-off at the very end of the year, and already the law will be valid since January 1, many local self-governments will remain in their debt. With these changes, you are making it worse and so far a very bad relationship in the redistribution of public revenues between the Republic and other levels of government, from the province, across cities to municipalities. You know it's about 11-12% now, now these changes and additions to the law that share of public income towards lower levels of government will fall below 10%. You know what practice it is in EU countries, in many it is up to 30%, affecting local self-government from these incomes from profit, and God, in Scandinavian countries, that percentage goes up to 47%. You mention new laws, new laws that will replace this amount of income you take with local self-government, so you mention taxes, or you mention the Tax Act, so you mention the law on public goods benefits, but that's just something we'll wait for. Now there's what's about local self-government when they plan their budgets, there's this unpredictability and instability in funding itself, in creating their own local budgets. I come from the Svilian municipality. The Svilajnac municipality is not one of those bad students who spends a lot more money on wages. We only have 10% of the salary in the budget, and the expenditure on capital investments is 20%. The municipality of Svilajnac regularly spends years in subsidising interest for both small businesses and agricultural producers, extracting considerable resources for social policy, almost all facilities and infrastructure we repaired and invested over 500 million dinars in the last year alone. Surely we do not belong to that poor student who must be disciplined in this way by reducing income from profit tax. And speaking of poor students and how much individual municipalities spent on salaries in the previous period when they had this income, I'm just going to point out to you the small municipality of Rekovac. After the SNS came to power, so since May, 15 new workers have been employed in almost non-existent jobs. I'm asking you to check it out. They didn't respect the Law on Public Employment, so they also have deputy deputies, so they have a gynecologist who is now a health counselor. So, not all municipalities respected and were not punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1901	You've wasted your time. Thank you. So your task force has wasted its time. The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1902	Thank you. It's okay, I don't mind repeating what happened yesterday, and I can decide maybe to refrain from this debate, because we're repeating ourselves, but somehow I really want to try to always respond to the MPs when I don't think we understand each other. When you say, who should be saving? Everyone needs to save, everyone needs to save, and everyone needs to save. So we all have to save, in a situation like this, the country was, that's how this government, that is, the previous one, and everyone needs to save. As for the state administration, some 20,000 people have been reduced from 2015 to today by the state administration. It's not true that the Republic takes from the locals and doesn't do anything. So the Republic came from itself, that is, to remind myself, is, some local self-governments have even gone into professionalization before the central level, but everyone needs to save and that's the answer to your question and that's what this law is about. As for taking pensions and now taking local self-government, I'm going back to dialogue five minutes ago. So if, at one point as a state, you have unrealizedly raised your wages, when and by all economic analysts, objectively, said -- then it's a Sunflower, you now have to do some corrective measures if you're responsible for the government, and this government is responsible. So we're talking about pensions, which are completely irrationally raised because of political points, which now someone needs to balance, and that's done and the pensioners are still supporting this government in the elections. So when someone was supposed to save, those people who were supposed to save knew why they were saving. As far as the 2011 law is concerned, and you're now talking so heartily about decentralisation and how we don't need it right now, you voted against that law in 2011, that law that asked to be raised from 40% of the profit tax to 80%. So you voted against that law. Now you say - no this law is. What did you want to increase to 90%? But, okay. Now we're saying -- okay, now this law that sets up that balance, which you probably wanted when you didn't vote for that law, you're now voting against this law. So, okay, but we're to understand that the balance is now being put in place and that it's going to be a tough move, but let's not criticise the moves that are difficult, but they're finally serious. Do the mayors care about their citizens who have supported the adoption of this law? I think they care absolutely about both citizens and the state as such, just as the pensioners did. So, they are concerned, and that they support this bill and that they were able to participate in the public debate and make their comments, very, very, very constructive, supported by the numbers, which were then adopted, talk about the serious attitude of the mayor and the president of the municipalities, and that they care about their citizens and their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1903	Comrade Gajic, on what basis do you want the word? (Gorica Gajic, from the place: Replica. Well, on what basis? (Gorica Gajic, from the place: I was misread, she spoke to me. So what if she was talking? The word is Alexander Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm responding because there's been a misrepresentation at the expense of the SNS, related to the Rekovac municipality. I, if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Gajic, that statement to Rekovac is as accurate as your statement you made in the election campaign, if I'm not mistaken in early April this year, that the local SNS authorities in Svilinc have called on the Ministry of Defence to agree to settle for migrants to be placed in a barracks in Svilinc, is that right, so the Ministry of Defense denied you and said, ie. Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic said that in the next four years, there is absolutely no plan to house any asylum and migrants in Svilajnc's barracks. So what you said about the Svilian and the accommodation of the asylum seekers in Svilinec is just as accurate as what you said about the Rekovac. The Minister explained it nicely to you. Well, in 2011, you were against municipalities getting 80% of the income tax, and now here you're moaning over the fate of municipalities because it's not 80%, it's 76%. After all, why do you DSS worry so much about municipalities in Serbia? So which municipality are you in charge of? Where did the citizens of Serbia say -- well, great, let the DSS lead our municipality? To run the municipalities, you who are responsible for at least 24 criminal and robbery privatisations in Serbia, which is why we have to do all of this, all of these unpopular measures, wage cuts, pensions, etc.? You found out how to teach us how to take care of local self-government? Mrs. Gajic, the election is over, the citizens have said theirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1905	Thank you. The right to replicate for mentioning the political party, MP Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1906	Dear Mr Martinovic, in 2011, we were against adopting this concept of the law and we said that this would create a huge hole in the budget and lead to an even bigger deficit, as we refused a non-resonal increase in 2008, an abnormal increase in pensions, because we also said that this would lead to the collapse of the budget and the enormous borrowing of the country. You, Madam Minister, then in front of NAED, assured us that this increase in income taxing from 40% to 80% to local self-government will now bring benefits to local self-government. How do you convince us in another role now that it's not good? Who's consistent here and who's not? Mr. Martinovic, you have taken over the leadership of almost all municipalities in Serbia and almost all municipalities in Serbia today are either in a blockade or do not have their own means of development. That is why it is very important for us to know where the funds will go. By seizing funds from local self-governments, you have reduced them to blind listeners, they have only one role to play, to applaud and to make your president the great leader, who is the most successful and best prime minister in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1907	Comrade Lapčević, if you mention another great leader, you risk getting a warning. Political parties exist, political parties have presidents, not leaders. Some others have been called great leaders, so I ask you to appreciate that the current prime minister is the president of one political party. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1908	Mr. Lapchevic, we at least have someone to applaud because we have a president. You don't even know who the party president is or who the president of the parliamentary group is. As for debts, there is no municipality in Serbia where the SNS is in power and the SNS is responsible for the municipality's financial problem. All municipalities in which there are financial problems are municipalities where financial problems arose during the period when these local self-governments were led by the former regime's parties, primarily DS and DSS. The debt of Smederevska Palanka, here is Mr. Kena, the debt of Smederevska Palanka is 18m euros. Imagine what kind of genius you should be in a small municipality like Smederevska Palanka making 18m euros in debt. Koseric's debt, when the SNS took over, was 150 million dinars. I'm just giving you some examples. The debt of India, the genius, the best municipalities in Europe, is the most successful, is over 1.5 billion dinars. So, I'm only giving you three municipalities. Ask Mr. Stevanovic how much debt he left in Kragujevac, and he will say something more about it by my colleague Kovacevic, a national MP from Kragujevac. Ask any Serbian citizen -- who made these debts, whether any of the presidents of the municipality or the mayor of DSS or the SNS, as you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1909	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1910	It's inherited debts. These are debts from 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, etc., when children's homes were being distracted in development, so home nowhere, when swimming pools were being built, and pools nowhere, when roads were being made...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1911	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1912	As far as the 2011 law and my support of the NAED law were concerned, in 2011, I absolutely didn't have any function in NAED and I wasn't on any committee, nor did I work at NAED, so I don't know what to tell you about it. You're misinformed here. As far as NADED's stand is concerned, I know him, and the position of NAED was that the 2006 Law on the financing of local self-government was absolutely the best law, with 40% of the income tax. The attitude of NAZED is because it represents local self-government and economy, and therefore the NAD is similar to the attitude of this government is that it should never go into radical measures, nor those that are for the economy and local self-government, nor those that are against the economy and local self-government, or to their harm. This measure to which you go from 80 to 74, i.e. 77, is fully in line with this, with the policy of making business finally predictable in Serbia, both for the work of local self-government and for the lives of citizens and for the work of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1913	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 2 – at the meeting of the National Assembly there is no direct address of the People's Messenger to the other People's Messenger. Mr. Martinovic spoke to me personally. Let me tell you, we can't support this law because it's an ad hoc solution. If you wanted to systemically and comprehensively resolve the Law on the financing of local self-government, please provide a set of laws to regulate this. Don't put yourself in a situation of some... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1915	My colleague Gajic, you had a debate in principle, you signed up. (Gorica Gajic, from the place:... and I had the opportunity not to be given the means, for we did not do power in the plain. ) Let the service take two minutes from the time of the DSS parliamentary group. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. Wait, you're from the same parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1916	It is mentioned in the context of the new Law on the financing of local self-government and the relationship of DS to local self-government. Perhaps Mrs. Minister remembers some things well, some time when the mayors and presidents of the DS have made efforts to raise the capacity of their cities and their municipalities. Since 1996 and the victory in a large number of cities, in the fight against laws that were passed in 1995, by the then Deputy Prime Minister, when the property of cities and municipalities was transferred to the management of the Republic of Serbia. You know yourself that on October 5th, you have inherited some value on October 5th and the struggle of Serbian citizens to defend the results of September 24th, 2000. You continue that policy, and on the other hand you attack this date. I think it is also important to say that since 2000 the revenues of local self-government have been growing, thanks only to the struggle of mayors who have often been in conflict with their government presidents, precisely fighting for new incomes, new competences and greater participation of citizens in decision-making, because there is real life going on. We have evidence. In 2012, 80% of total funds collected go into the central budget, 20% go to local self-government or 18% more specifically. In 2015, the trend was reduced and going unsustainably down, we came to 11% for local self-government versus about 90% for the central budget. This is the answer to you in this drive and often the arguments we hear in this debate, which is that this law only balances the income ratio of the central and local authorities. At this rate, in three years, from 20% to 10%, it's obvious that the trend shows that we're going somewhere, mathematically speaking, at zero. There is life and the only way to finance and maintain life at the level of all Serbia is respect in both financial and other terms for people living in small towns, municipalities throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1917	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Replica, I was mentioned just before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1918	Mr. Martinovic, please answer me which of your two statements is correct? This one from December 20, 2014 when you say you're not a coward so you can go to SNS or this one from June 5th when you say... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1919	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place:... And that their goal is to tear Serbia apart... As for what you said about local self-government, the municipal leadership I was working on... We didn't take a single dinar of credit, and now in six months the SNS in the power of the Smederjev Palanka citizens only have four hours of water per day. ) In accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I set a break of 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on applications for the word of the People's MPs. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Just request the word electronically. Mr. Stevanovic, the 112th member says this – if the president of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, they will set a break until order is established. Regular measures are: warning, taking words and moving away from the session. I'm the one who set a break for a little passion to calm down and get on with normal work. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1921	I would like to say at the very beginning of my presentation that our parliamentary group, as already said by our representative yesterday, will vote in favour of this law and we support the adoption of this law, the Law on amendments to the financing of local self-government. Of course, it's right and there can always be arguments to be in favour or against, and besides, it's in the sphere of politics and it's perfectly understandable and it's not something to be excited about. I think that when we talk about this, maybe too focused on this issue and we look at the terribly large differences in the development of certain environments, which is very important for Serbia's future, and that this must be overcome at a certain point, and in order to overcome this, such measures must be done as are these amendments to the law. Of course, this is just a fraction of what can contribute to this big question, but of course there are other places for other laws and other decisions to be made in that direction. Furthermore, by adopting such laws, we should enable the state, i.e. central authorities, to build certain instruments to take strategic measures in order to equate the development of certain parts in Serbia, individual areas. Finally, the central government is taking over certain powers, i.e. taking over some of the funds through tax collection, so that the central government will invest the same thing in Serbia and in certain parts of Serbia will not invest those funds anywhere on Mars or somewhere I don't know where, at the expense of our Serbia. Funding an entire range of original and trusted local self-government businesses is always important for local self-government especially for us from smaller underdeveloped environments in which income funds are always small and insufficient. In such environments, there are not many employees, so there is not a lot of income from profit tax as one of the sources that local self-government on the one hand earns, gets, on the other hand, the central government does. Therefore, the role of the state in redistributing fiscal incomes, not only of profit tax, is very, very important. When it comes to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, this law was passed in 2006, which has been in place since 2007. The distribution of the raised income tax was 40% in favour of local self-government and 60% in favour of the central government. At that time, by 2011, in the time of great wandering and experimentation in the sphere of economic policy, it seemed necessary to find a new relationship in the redistribution of the collected income tax, and also under the password over the necessary decentralisation, 2011, a new amendment was made to the Law on the financing of local self-government and that the percentage belonging to local self-government doubled from 40% to 80%, in favour of the state remained 20%. So this change that was justified through the need for decentralisation was supposed to lead to the realization of new development projects, but under the full responsibility of local self-government, unfortunately it did not happen in full capacity. I think to a large extent, in this regard, it's been tampered with in the place. On the other hand, with this distribution of income tax, the effect was 40 billion deficits in the republican budget. With these current changes that we are discussing today, we have a new redistribution of income tax. In nominal terms, 4.8 billion will go from local to republican, which is only part of what is missing, etc. It was said that municipalities would receive instead of 80%, 74%, cities with 80%, 77%, and the City of Belgrade from 70% to 66%. The changes are small after all. However, this represents a correction of the percentage of redistribution of income tax and this is a measure of fiscal consolidation aimed at reducing the overall fiscal deficit and preserving macroeconomic stability, which is very significant and that is, I would also say a key word on what needs to happen in the future. This will make the state able to take some compensatory measures to a greater extent to encourage development projects. It is about dedicated transfers or subsidies, and these can be greater and more significant than those received, for example, by collecting income tax at local level. So there's a key, instead of being petty and looking at what we can pick based on the profit tax, and often in local self-government, we have a small number of employees, so this effect is not significant, we get and break a spear around that percentage, around that amount, and we actually overlook that the state should get one instrument that will make compensation measures make these local self-governments often get a larger amount of money than they would get by tax, for profit, etc. Personally, I think that in the next step, when new amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government or a new law are made, I do not fully know that this percentage will be higher in favour of the state compared to local self-government, but it will also have its justification in a strategic sense. So, for these reasons, we see that it's very good to support this law, and it's going to be a chance to finally start that story of even regional development somehow. We have always stayed with the narrations and it was a dead letter on paper, and we today have a drastically large difference in the development of certain areas in Serbia, so it is also the key to investing in undeveloped parts of Serbia. The other day when the prime minister, along with some other ministers, was in Homolj, I was pleased to find out, and I was present, that they had received a water supply system for four settlements, and they could never do so from those funds they have in their local budget. It was also agreed then and it is clear that the area will receive 25km of new six-metre asphalt, which is of course a huge sum of six sevenm euros, etc. One such undeveloped area could not have gained it if it remained only on what is a struggle to gain a higher percentage based on collecting a tax or on profit. That percentage might be increased to 200 and 300%, and that five wouldn't have any effect. We must all do together and force local self-government management to include all possible resources and opportunities for greater revenues in their budgets. Work towards greater rationality and allocations in budget spending and most importantly that local self-government must work much more zealously and ambitiously to prepare and implement new development projects. A form of functioning of a local self-government has been exceeded by using a link or through a minister or some significant person, or some additional means, or by waiting for a transfer or some money from a budget reserve, or by fighting, I say, for a higher percentage, however much he may not be enough for these underdeveloped municipalities, especially as there is a status quo and few employees there for the time being. We must make these areas economically powerful, increase the number of employees through a more balanced regional development and through a well-developed investment policy in undeveloped areas, and thus achieve a single improvement. At the very least, all of this, which is our fight and our way to the EU, is pointless if we remain at the level of this kind of diversity and economic development as it is today. That is why the government deserves full support with the prime minister in this regard that one strategic battle is being fought to make Serbia more capable, to be more powerful, but not only in Belgrade or in some major centres, but in all parts of Serbia. Finally, once again, let me say that we will certainly support this law, because we believe that it is looking forward to Serbia's better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1922	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1923	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, fellow MPs, this is not easy to understand. The prime minister says that our budget has never been more stable in the last few years, that they are paying and pensions are about to rise from 1 next year, that we are growing in GDP in the third or fourth place in Europe. I heard a fellow SNS officer yesterday saying that a surplus of 27 million was achieved between January and September, and I'm just thinking, it's good. But then suddenly Madam Minister says that there is still 4.8 billion dinars from local self-government to the Republic, because let me quote you – it's terribly important to do this because of the IMF. Then he said that we were a country with special needs, and fortunately now we no longer have these needs as special. You're going to let me bring in a little bit of brightness, because it was just a nervous atmosphere, and this unequivocally reminded me of that movie -- "Are you a musician? I didn't. You didn't? I did. No, no, I didn't. Let me just get my aunt's medicine. “ Is it the fact that in a law that exists we are going to change only one member or is it the cure that we are going to meet the greater or smaller requirements of the IMF? The problems in the public finances of local self-government are different. Incomprehensible high expenditures relating to employees whose national average, and earlier said by the Minister, more than 23%, and in some municipalities and cities more than 30%, and even more than 40%. Why is that? Probably a large number of workers. Why a large number of workers? Because never in the last 10 years and over the last 10 years, and when in power were present and when they were past, what was said was not fulfilled, and what was called stop part-time employment. In local self-government, many local public utility companies whose founders are cities and municipalities deal with losses. A few reasons – a huge number of workers, the inability of the people to pay the commitments they make to them because they have reduced salaries and pensions and large debts to suppliers from the Republic. Then in urban budgets, it is regulated by reducing infrastructure investment, so we come into a situation that, for example, Grain or Fireman still don't have healthy and normal drinking water, I don't know if you know that, Madam Minister. Then we come that only 60% of households in Serbia are connected to the sewer, and the average in Europe is 80%. Then we come to the fact that the share of wastewater treatment in our country is 10 to 15%, and in Europe, much bigger and then suddenly you confuse me again with the story of good and bad students, when at the end of 2015, the budget reserves of 1.1 billion dinars are referred to certain local self-governments, with the reason that the reduction of the income of individual units of local self-government requires it. Then Kragujevac gets 185 million, Loznica 80, Leskovac 150, Vranjačka Banja 70. Whether they were good students because they received money or because they were bad students who came into the situation that they had no money, so you guided them. It is not clear to me. It is only clear to me that it is then the King, and I am a people's messenger from the city of kings, not a people's messenger of office, but a messenger of the opposition, the King received nothing at that time. Then you've overcame yourself, then you've given us nothing, and now you're going to take it from us. How much are you gonna take from us? How much did I count between 41 million and 45 million dinars? Then you tell me earlier that the mayors and presidents of the municipalities worked hard at the meeting and took care of their cities, and these days they give statements that, for God's sake, they're satisfied that they've just taken so much money, not bigger. Please tell me, which host, and by my perception, host of the house, host of the municipality, host of the city, which host can be happy if taken from his house? Is it a real host or is it a host who sees that his chair first among the equals, in a way, preserves? What exactly does 41 million mean for the King? This means that in the budget of the city of Kraljev, the firstborn child and the out-of-body fertilisation have allocated funds of 9.5 million. That we might not lose them? This means that eight million, which was intended for the development of rural tourism, which is the potential of the city of Kings, is in the budget rebalancing, or correction that was made two days ago in the City of Kings Assembly, where I am the function and committee of the Assembly in front of the Dvori Movement, which was taken down by eight million. That might mean that out of $90 million for agriculture 45 will be taken down. I have no doubt that you are well-intentioned, and I have heard your promise to visit the city of the King. Please, Madam Minister, when you arrive in the city of Kraljevo, invite me and the other MPs who are not MPs of the position to repeat all this in front of the authorities of the city and try to find a solution. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1924	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1925	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, has been presented today with amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and, as we could hear, a compromise has been made between what was required by the IMF, as part of an arrangement that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what were the requirements of local self-government, and this bill is much more favourable than the one in the Bill Draft, which envisioned that taxes on local self-governments are reduced to 50% and that the rest is compensated by the increase in property tax. This is certainly a better legal solution, leading to a balanced vertical solution, but I hope, as you have announced, that you will do it horizontally when it comes to transfers that are not objective, are not transparent and that they will certainly be in the future and will certainly be predictable. The local self-government I come from, the municipality of Vrbas, will be reduced to about 30 million dinars, but what I want to present today and join the support of municipality president Milan Glusac, who recently sent a request from the finance minister asking them to reconsider and re-evaluate the parameters that determine the development of the municipality. The municipality of Vrbas is in the first group of developed municipalities, among 20 municipalities, although the economic environment in the municipality has been very different in the last 15 years, especially in the last five years. I would like to point out that we, as a local self-government, are applying to all projects, and those that have been called by the AP Vojvodina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EU, but we are facing one problem. Since we are in a group of these developed municipalities, our co-financing in projects must be between 30% and 80%, so sometimes we can't even participate in some competitions when it comes to capital investments. I would also like to give you some information to support this request sent by the president of the municipality, which is that the number of employees in the constant decline, that in 2008 in the municipality of Vrbas was employed by 14,559 persons, which accounted for 52% of the working population.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1926	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1927	Thank you. My fellow MPs have wasted their time, but I will bring it to an end very soon. In 2015 it amounts to 9.230, which is a total reduction of 5.329, and if we take the data from 2000, it is more than 8,000. As for net earnings in the municipality of Vrbas, it is 20% lower than that in the South Baška area, 12.67% compared to the AP Vojvodina and 15.11% compared to the republican average. Also, there are VAT from the Vrbas municipality to be deposited annually into the republican budget of about 600 million dinars, and some 157 million dinars are returned through transfer funds. I would ask you to consider this request from the municipality with the finance minister, to review these parameters when it comes to development analysis, and we belong to this present among the 20 most developed municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1928	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1929	Your Honor, we're talking about a law that only has one member or two, but one essentially. It seems to me there have been objections from your side that we are overly politicizing all of this. And this is a political issue, but I think it is not only political, but also an economic but also a life issue, which is most important for our citizens, for all people living in Serbia. What's political about? I think it's a fact, and we're all aware of that, that since 2012 intensively this Assembly has passed laws that pour funds from local to central. That's what many mayors and the presidents of the municipalities are aware of, and those sitting in this room, and probably listening to us, it's clear to them, and I'm not going to prove it with numbers right now, that's what we're talking about. With some 18.8% belonging to the local level in 2012 we reached 11.8%. So that's a fact. Why is the political issue important? It is precisely because clear fiscal centralisation, more money at the central level, means a deterioration of the fiscal local level, which in political terms means strengthening the central level and losing the political power at the local level, completely clear. What does that mean? This means less and less room for our citizens' participation in decision-making, creating their strategies and resolving their life issues, most directly related to the places they live. That's why we need to discuss the political aspect of this law, just one member, just 4.6 billion, as you say, wasn't eight, but only 4.6, that's one aspect. The other one is economic. Well, and only these 4.6 spills, you said most to Belgrade, two billion, but we know that in 2014, I'd like you to answer that, the GSP of Belgrade received a two-billion transfer to cover its losses. You know what these two billion mean for all local administrations in all of Serbia and the state of their public utility systems, and you are aware of the state of the municipal systems at the level of cities and municipalities, what would those two billion mean for all other cities and municipalities? How much does Nis lose? About 160 million, this law. How much does Kragujevac lose? More than 100 million. How many Novi Sads and how many smaller cities in Serbia? That's the other economic aspect. The third and most important aspect, that's life. What does all this mean for the lives of people living in these cities? It is clear to us, we want excellent urban transport in Belgrade, but it is irresponsible to cover this from the central budget, if someone is calling for political points in the pre-election campaign not to pay tickets in city public transport, and then the effects of such calls are treated, irresponsible political calls to tackle the loss of a public enterprise at the city level. We have conditions in public utility systems throughout Serbia where workers' earnings are not paid after seven months. You know that too, late pay. Well, then we have a problem that people don't work effectively enough in public cleanliness. What does that mean? It means that our streets and our courtyards are covered with garbage, because they are not sufficiently efficient and frequent. What does that mean? The result of the health of all of us, our children and ourselves living in these local self-governments where we have to solve these problems. On the other hand, we raise our hand here and vote for laws that will reduce our ability to solve this problem. What about schools? What about the rest of the system, where life is real? So these are key questions. Once again, I think it's very important that we all think about it together, raising our hand, supporting this law. And not just this one, because this is just one of many from 2012 to today. In fact, we're shutting down the potential for political and life influences for people living on a local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1930	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1931	Thank you very much. First, when the MP speaks, especially the one I think was a great leader of local self-government and a fantastic mayor, I listen very carefully because I think he knows what he's saying and I can learn and learn every time. What I mean on the other hand, which is amazing to me, but good, and that's the thing of political life, I guess, just to say, I don't think this bill is politically important, I think it's, of course, important and that 4.8 billion is not a small item. As far as Belgrade is concerned, I have not been informed of the subsidies, I believe it was, if you have this information, but I also told Belgrade that it is possible to end up in a situation where you need subsidies from a republican level, if you run almost 40% of public procurement and close through a direct negotiation process. That's inadmissible. And when you run like that, and so it's run until 2013, then you might need subsidies behind it for some things. I highlighted the town of Belgrade yesterday as one example of good practice, which is that the centralized public procurement service is a total savings of 1.2 billion dinars thanks to the centralized public procurement service for the past two years in the city of Belgrade. You are right to have a problem with both public enterprises and a lot of problems that, I say, MPs who are in parliament, who have well run local self-government and know this issue, but what I find amazing is that you are sitting, unfortunately, next to someone who is at this point the most problematic local self-government, with which we now have a problem how to give out of the republican budget sufficiently quantitatively and quickly enough to provide citizens with basic conditions for life. We have a local self-government 80km from Belgrade, 80km from Belgrade – Smederjevska Palanka, which was left by the president of the municipality without water. We have a local government in 2016 where the water restrictions are from ten in the evening to five in the morning. That's what the Republic Government should be fighting with right now. So, I'm going to give you this example just because I've been giving examples of good examples and just to tell you that now, here, give you advice to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Finance, about how it is possible that on 31 December 2015, the loss of the company's "Vodovod" Smederjevska Palanka 285 million dinars and that the total value of this company's capital is 116 million dinars. Thus, the loss of 170 million dinars exceeds the total value of "The Waterway". When I took over the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, I think I received the first day from the "water" Smederevska Palanka letter to have people strike. When we talk about household business and where we can save and how we can do, the blockade of all accounts in "Vodovod" Smederevska Palanka continues from 22 July 2014 until today and on 15 August 2016, after 755 days of blocking the account, it is 190 million dinars, without interest in the process of execution. What's problematic with Waterwater Smederjevska Palanka, that we don't think at all about how we're going to compensate for other losses, what we do with employees' salaries and everything else, what's the burning problem is how to ensure that the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka have water. How is it possible that someone 80km from Belgrade, we're not talking here about some Vrško kuka, 80km from Belgrade? Imagine going home from ten o'clock to five a.m. every day you don't have any water, and then you have urgent restrictions during the day? Because years, year after year, it is not even invested in current maintenance, so when you have a regional Grand Plan water pipeline – Smederjevska Palanka which is finished, then you cannot release water in Smederjevska Palanca because the losses on the network are more than 50%. So this is the problem of local self-government from 2008 to 2016. It is impossible for me to believe that a serious president of the municipality can't, and that since 2008, there's also the support of the republican government, the central level, can't ensure that whoever it is doesn't leave even if the citizens have water. Do you know how serious and immediate the health of the inhabitants of this municipality is? So, these are things where a MP who was a serious leader of local self-government, a serious mayor, we talk here, and besides himself has a MP who has closed his reign from 2008 to 2016, his management of the Smederjev Palanko, and that citizens there every day, every night, have no water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1932	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica! ) Mr. Kiric, you really have no right because Smederevska Palanka is mentioned. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Madam Minister invited me to answer and give advice. ) This is in a positive context. I don't understand why you're looking for a replica, it was in a positive context. (Goran Ciric, from the place: I think it would be positive to answer what she said... I know, but I'd be breaking the Rules of Procedure. You know for yourself, if someone doesn't understand you or express himself offensively about you, about your exposure, etc. There was no such thing here. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I am the head of the parliamentary club, and it is said that it is incomprehensible that I am sitting in the surroundings of the MP who was the mayor who made... I think it'd be okay if you gave me two minutes. There's a problem, because you've reached out to your colleague. You want me to give each other my word? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Here, I will. Make up your mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1933	Thank you. I'm glad you're looking for that kind of suggestion. I think it's important, first of all, to me it's really strange that you didn't have information about two billion cities in Belgrade, the GSP, but that you have accurate information that you've given us in five minutes about a $170 million debt, or I don't know how many already, which was made in the Smederjevska Palanca. So two billion is much less important, nor could we get that information, but very precise data on the state of the municipal system in the Smederjevska Palanca, 80 kilometers from Belgrade, is something that is exactly what we are presented here. I think it's important that the mayor, too, the president of the municipality has a chance to say that. That's why I wanted to say that your arguments would have been much more convincing if you'd talked about another case, at least once. In 170 municipalities and towns in Serbia where you have, you just said, 99% of the mayors and the president of the municipalities. You mentioned Srljig as positive and singled out Smederjevska Palanka, according to your criteria, but on the other hand, not one single problem of public municipal system in Serbia. You want me to tell you? Ask Mr. Stevanović what about the public municipal cleanliness system in Kragujevac, what about the heat in Nis, what about many public utility systems in many cities in Serbia and indeed your arguments would be much stronger and much more convincing to talk about at least four, five examples of cities where the mayors and presidents of SNS municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1934	Right to replica first Radoslav Milojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1935	Dear Minister, I agree with my colleague Gordana Komic that when you come to the National Assembly, you need your associates to inform you that they are giving you accurate information here. First, my smallness has been the president of the municipality since 27 May 2012. When you combined the government, since you speak politically here, in all municipalities, and failed the Smederjevska Palanca because I received almost 50% of the support on my name and last name, as in 2016 I received 22% of the support, which is three times as much as the party I am leading in the Smederjevska Palanca, at the end of 2012. The block of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality accounts lasts day and day. We've been doing business for four years with a complete account block. How? That's not what your predecessors were interested in because I'm DS. I sent letters from the prime minister, through all the competent ministries and said even in one statement that I would kiss the prime minister's hand if they helped Smederevska Palanka municipality, that Smederevska Palanka municipality was not me and not DS, but 60,000 citizens. That's right, we've managed to keep the plumbers on strike with four years of blockade. The debts in the waterworks have been going on since 2003. I'm sorry, but in 2003, I was 19 years old, I couldn't make those debts, so I'm asking you to go to the state of the city. Rino was not allowed to be late for a single day in the Smederevska Palanka municipality because you would immediately block our funds because I am from the DS. Your current executives have a strike in the waterworks, a strike at a preschool facility, don't pay the company's salary. Why didn't the water workers strike while I was president of the municipality? Why aren't water workers certified books for six months, and they were certified until May 30, 2016, when we authenticated them?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1936	You're bringing the end of Mr. Milojich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1937	With all the difficulty, why is this the situation now? Why didn't these people strike before? Because they paid their salaries through the union account. We did our best. Then you come from the Ministry and say, "That's not legal." Well, I know it's not legal, but give me another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1938	Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. First, he still has the championship, the right to replication for mentioning the political party, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I apologize to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milojic was himself a predecessor, so that the citizens of Serbia would know, because he has been in power not since 2012, but since 2008. And why the water workers weren't on strike, here's your proof, Mr. Milojits. Because you made this payment order...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1940	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1941	Here, I am speaking to you, Mr. Chairman, therefore, this is a payment order from the Vojvodjanska Banka, 2015 is a matter of, therefore, at a time when Mr. Milojic was the president of Smederevska Palanka municipality, an authorised cash-lifting person, some Mrs. Radulović Ruzica, to pay salaries to the workers in the waterworks raised in that day of 1,648,000 dinars. Here you are, Mr. Milojić, or you, Mr. Arsic, if you don't believe me, a list of water workers who were getting paid in cash. If you're telling me that there's an orderly civilised country where employees of a public company whose founder of local self-government are getting paid in cash, here, you see, the accounting and financial services, so let Ristic Divna receive 10,000 dinars, so the woman had to sign, so the Zecevic Ljiljana 10,000 dinars, so she had to sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1942	Please don't read those names.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1943	Now watch out, Mr. Arsic, imagine what a salary is, equal to 10,000 dinars. Exactly 10,000 dinars. Ten thousand dinars, 10,000 dinars, 6,000 dinars, 6,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars, 11,000 dinars. So it's impossible. It is impossible, therefore, that someone’s salary in one part is exactly 11,000 dinars, just 6,000 dinars, just 10,000 dinars, and that it is paid in cash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1944	Please, without a personal address and bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1945	So, Mr. Milojic, there was no strike because the workers were getting paid, but not in a legal way, but in hands, and they still had to sign that they received a salary or one share of the salary of ten, six or eleven thousand dinars in cash, which was raised by some Rose Radulovic from the Vojvodjanska Banka.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1946	Thank you. Now he has the word of Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1947	Thank you. First, I mentioned the Smederjevska Palanka because I really don't know any other example of local self-government in Serbia that has permanent water restrictions. As I know all the information and how I have all the data, I have data not because someone sent me from the government, someone from some party, but because on August 15th, it was on my desk a letter from the Smederevska Palanka waterworks to strike and try to help them, and that's not even in my jurisdiction, but as a first week minister in the government, it was very hard to sign a letter and say, you know how, I don't care that you don't have water, it's not even my jurisdiction, it's not even the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, it's your local self-government's jurisdiction, it was there from 2008 to 2016, so go and see what you're going to do with it. I couldn't sign that letter because I didn't want the first letter I signed to be telling some people who don't have water, water, 80 kilometers from Belgrade, from ten to five in the morning every night – go and see what you're going to do. I also know where I got all that information. If these data are not correct – okay, they are not true, they are data from the strike board from the water line. The reason I'm particularly upset about this is because it's a scandal for me that some Serbian citizens don't have water at the end of 2016. It's scary to me. Believe me, every day I think about how to fix it. Now, we need to separate the money first into the current maintenance so that the water network can be rehabilitated, so that it doesn't have over 50% of the loss, not to talk about the price of water, but 50% of the loss. So I don't know about the other local self-government. Please, if there is any other local self-government in which citizens have permanent power restrictions or permanent water restrictions, as is the case in Smederjevska Palanca, I ask you to tell me, I will go there and pray and I will also tell all my colleagues in my government – that is our jurisdiction, let's help them. I know that, let's say, the citizens of Bajina Basta have once had power restrictions due to low-voltage crash, and in particular we talked about it with a distribution system operator, although it's not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and local self-government, let's see how to solve it because some of the farmers there bought the latest machines for a husband who can't work. So we have a agricultural problem, besides citizens having their own problems. But I understand that in Baja's garden. They were rinks, and it's a hell of a hard place to resuscitate, so we're trying, but they don't have permanent restrictions, but sometimes it falls down and it gets fixed and it gets fixed. No permanent restrictions, here you have permanent restrictions, every night someone in the Smederjev Palace has no water. As for other local self-governments, I'll give you an example, a good example of Paracino, while we're already on debt returns, is the opposition local self-government, every honor to them, have 25%, fewer employees than the allowed number, and have paid off all the debts of the home health that have been inherited. They did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1948	Thank you. Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1949	It's clear to me that Mr. Martinovic doesn't understand it, and I don't want to answer to him at all, but we've been letting the workers help through the union, and it's not some wonderful one, but it's a lady who's the head of accounting, and I hope you know that it's forbidden here to bring out personal names and personal data from people who aren't in this room, especially from those workers who haven't received their salary for six months, whose children don't have certified health books since yours came from SNS. That's what your MP from SNS said the other night on TV. Dear friends, once again, we did a project with the European Investment Bank, eleven and a half million euros and a water factory was built in Smederjevska Palanca, we from the Democratic Party, built five waternets in all villages, and restrictions were not permanent, restrictions were in the summer time period, only at night, in the summer time period. The restrictions are 20 years in the summer time period, 20 years. There were restrictions in 2005, 2006 and 2003 and 2002 and 2001, and now permanent restrictions and citizens have no water at all during the day, not only at night, because water workers strike because your arrogant leadership treats them that way. The restrictions were never daily and nightly, they were only during the summer heats of night and for 20 years it was so. This is not so in 2012, 2014, 2015, since 2000, 1996, there have been restrictions, 1997, all people know. Well, the former president of the Assembly has been in the local parliament for 20 years, and we all agree on that regardless of who the political party is, but we were hoping to solve the problem by building a water factory in co-operation with the European Investment Bank, because we did good projects and got eleven and a half million euros and a water factory was built. But what's the other problem? Another problem is that the water network was built in the '50s, '60s.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1950	Thank you. You're way out of line. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1951	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I understand Mr. Milojicic that you are not very interested in why the citizens of the Smederjev Palanca do not have water, because you seem to be drinking beer. On May 13th of this year, you drank 65 beers "Lav", 130 beers "Tuborg" and 143 bottles of beer "Heiniken" and then justified that it was allegedly about the cost of the team, right, the municipality of Smederevska Palanka, totalling 140 thousand dinars. There is no European Investment Bank, nor any other bank in the world that can cover the debts of a president of a municipality who is undomestically managing its municipality. So it doesn't exist. What you failed to explain to Mr. Milojičić, not only did you bring the plumbing into the blockade, you brought all the public enterprises in Smederjevska Palanca into a blockade. Well, when Prime Minister Vukic finally told you that you paid your salaries through a football club that you declared public enterprises, then you started laughing and saying -- ha, ha, ha, not a public enterprise but a public institution. Imagine, a drastic difference. So, not only is the water line in the blockade, it's all in the block at Smederevska Palanca and then you've paid employees at the municipal administration through the football club's account, I don't know what it's called, which you previously declared a public institution. It's a model, Mr. Milojic, for whom the DS would lead Serbia if you didn't let God win these elections, but the citizens of Serbia, thank God they've got enough brains to show you confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1952	Thank you. The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1953	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government leads to a debate in the Serbian Parliament on the functioning of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1954	Ambassador, I'm asking you about the law, only the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1955	Of course, just about the law. More about how local self-government works, we are interested in the future of the operation of local administrations in Serbia. Madam Minister, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, local administrations must define clearly how local administrations should function in the next period of time. We've been listening for two days to talk about the conflicted interest of the republican budget and local budgets, and no one can say it's the cost of costing the general state. The Republic budget, general, is the cost of costing the general state, that's one thing, there's no difference. When you have fiscal income at the Serbian state level, then these fiscal revenues have a mission to make Serbian citizens live better. We have been witnessing for the last two years that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has financed from the Republic budget a number of projects in primary education, primary health care, travel infrastructure at a local place that, by vocality, should be financed by laws from local administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is financing from the Republic budget, and who it is funding, where it ends. Of course, in the local budgets. Fiscal revenues are unity, but it is also an obligation for the Serbian government to finance well-functioning local administrations. This is unity and, for the last ten years, practically a decade, the state of Serbia has been in a major fiscal problem. The general state is always in a deficit. Fortunately for the last two years, we've had a growth in income as far as the Republic budget is concerned, we have a surplus. Serbia has always spent more than it earned. The need for public spending was always great. And he's right about the Fiscal Council when he says that the main problem is the functioning of the general state and the deficits that we have here, the problem of local administrations. And it is not wrong for the Fiscal Council, it is not wrong when it says that all other institutions that are monopolies, which are dragging their monopoly from the state administration, are the problem of functioning the fiscal order of the state of Serbia. Milton Friedman says the worst possible monopoly is a state monopoly. They're right and representatives of the local administration when they say they have a problem with functioning. The problem with the functioning of the local administration arises at a time when the level of duty is so high that it threatens the degree of liquidity in certain extreme cases, insolvency. But the law we are discussing today is not about and does not lead to repairing the position of local administrations, or is not making it difficult because it is a law that does not contribute to increasing the fiscal obligations of Serbian citizens. This is fiscally completely neutral law. For two days, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, we have been listening to the debate on the Law on the financing of local administrations. And let me ask you, Minister, did you hear the amount of income from the profit? In 2015 and 2016, the state of Serbia has a growth in revenue, and these revenues amount to 120 billion dinars, or 50 billion in net revenue. Here I'm going to use the data provided by the Fiscal Council. The latest report, delivered on September 5th 2016, on page 10, page 11 and 12 of the explanation – discusses the results of the fiscal consolidation of the Serbian state – 149.5 billion are revenues from the income tax. Here, I say it first today. That's what the Fiscal Council says, that's how much we planned, general public expenditure for this fiscal year. On page 11 and 12. The fiscal council says – because the Serbian government has taken a number of steps towards direct foreign investment, i.e. domestic investment, improved the investment climate, in the state of Serbia the mass of profit and employment has increased, and the income tax on citizens will be increased by six billion, minimum. 75% of citizens' income tax is profit taxes; 80% of the income tax goes to local administrations. I ask all the protectors of the functioning of local administrations – 2.75% of the income and 4.8 billion, based on the increase in the income tax in 2016 of the fiscal year, to whom did it go? It went to local administrations, thanks to the functioning of the government of the Republic of Serbia. And that is not said by the minister, not said by SNS committees and MPs, the Prime Minister does not say, according to the Fiscal Council. You don't trust the fiscal council? The International Monetary Fund? All right. The money provided by the Serbian government's investments actually went to operate local administrations, increase profit levels, and that's perfectly normal. Without the Serbian government, small municipalities operating in Serbia would be in a terrible bad situation. You have countless small municipalities that are unable to finance the full functioning of the local administration due to the outflow of the population, small business activities. If there were no direct investment, or assistance made by the Serbian government in greenfield and brownfield investments, these small municipalities today would not have worked. Is it possible to imagine that a small municipality can contribute and attract hundreds and create new jobs? The functioning of the local community is mainly related to laws passed in the Republic of Serbia and regulations concerning local administrations. Madam Minister, however it may be, Serbia needs new reform laws. This start, without new system laws that are modern, nothing new anywhere in the world, Serbia can't go any further, with laws based on thinking and functioning from 1946, no matter what systemic and small changes they have made, the right academics, training, must be passed system laws. These system laws must pass and start from a key issue, and the key question today is for me – Madam Minister, and what do local administrations do to us? Do they play sports, do they finance education, what they do? We hear they're funding the unions. Although the answer to this question should be quite simple, in the subject I am very simple, that we in the state of Serbia know what local self-government is dealing with, I think we are wrong. Because of the system that we have today, it is right that the presidents of municipalities who say they are unable to reconcile and comply with all the obligations imposed by the decisions of the Republic Assembly and the decisions of very often local parliaments which are populist and which do not have sources of income in fiscal revenues. And they're right. As it is, the Fiscal Council is right when it says that the main cause of the problem in the functioning of local administrations is too much expenditure, primarily the expenditure on employees. There is no change in the functioning of the local administration, and we will not take any step if we do not solve another key issue, which is a question of dual relations, i.e. double roles that local congregations play in their operation and in their work. Local congregations are the owners of public, public-communal enterprises, agencies. At the same time, local congregations primarily have the capacity to provide citizens from their territory with the best communal conditions. Citizens voting trust them with the role of trust in jobs. And it is right, it is not controversial, many local functions can be done and done by better co-operation with private and state capital. But, Madam Minister, we must return to normal practice and normal rules, which say that local administration, the assembly, is here to entrust jobs to those who work most efficiently and economically, in the interests of Serbian citizens. Who owns the capital, who provides the service, whether it is a mixed company, a company owned by that assembly or private capital, is completely irrelevant in conditions where you have major fiscal and monetary problems. I have to remind the citizens of Serbia that there is nothing questionable that Serbia is still in a difficult and fiscal and monetary situation today, but the difference is because we have turned the trend around and for the first time we have fantastic fiscal results and fantastic monetary results, as never in Serbia's history. Now, in such difficult weather conditions, in difficult situations, it is necessary to take care of every fiscal dinar. Every fiscal dinar in such a difficult time should essentially go, although this law does not work, with those administrations and those systems that have the highest confidence of Serbian citizens. Today, it is undeniable that Serbian citizens have the greatest confidence in fiscal policy-making in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I completely agree, and you agree, that the decentralisation process is necessary for local administrations to function better. But I haven't heard today that someone from the local administration, former representatives, said in the process of decentralisation of local administrations -- you know, you defend one system, you want to decentralisation it, and you're not talking about decentralisation of local administrations, which are also in trouble. To remind you that Slovenia has 211 municipalities, Croatia 429 municipalities and that it is an undeniable process of decentralisation that implies that responsibility is greater. But it is also undeniable that the decentralisation process clearly focuses on liability to bankruptcy levels for the poor functioning of local administrations. Today in Serbia, you have a city market. It's a notion that rarely anyone uses. You have a market, there is competition between cities in attracting domestic and foreign investors and this is a real situation. You have cities that offer more and towns that offer less and that's a normal situation. But there is a situation ahead that the next period of time will be a struggle for the population. Because if you don't have a population, you don't even have fiscal income. The struggle for the population will be a crucial struggle between local administrations in the next period of time. The conditions that will allow their citizens to open jobs, live in that territory, will distinguish between good and bad administrations. Without the system, the main books, the vaults, which are being run today and the measures of the Serbian government, both by functionality, economics, organisation, but in the last two years and programming, we cannot talk about changes in the functioning of the local administration. Without clear rules that define, while at the same time controlling what the funds of Serbian citizens are spent on, there is no change and there is no mechanism to talk about spending control. My proposal to you is that not only the state authorities know how much and when money is spent, but that information on the functioning or budget payments, both direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, is available daily to Serbian citizens. It's no problem. Serbian citizens need to know what payments are made from their funds and I think it is necessary for local communities to function. In fact, this law is a key issue between two fiscal entities, between the republican administration and local administrations. And to be fair, Serbian citizens in any city don't care when they have an infrastructure problem who's responsible for this infrastructure problem. You can transfer responsibility from the republican government to the local government, but when citizens are dissatisfied, even in the case you state, the state of Serbia must react. It is the essence of Serbia's functioning and fiscal order. And to finish - this is the first law that implies a change in the functioning of local communities. As we changed labour laws, as we changed the laws in 2015 at the beginning, so we argued that in 2018 we would be in a situation where our external debt fell, and we had already come, as we had a plan for better fiscal results to arrive in three years, and they arrived in a year and a half. Madam Minister, you are on your way to a job that has not been reformed, perhaps the last part of the Serbian society and state administration, which has not been changed, do not be discouraged. In a year, two days when we pass a set of new laws concerning both the fiscal functioning of local administrations and new territorial organisations and a new way of functioning, results that will arrive, and if you persist in modernising the local administration, it will be your responsibility and your team. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, has no problem in supporting any law that says otherwise, is different, but we are here to make Serbia different from the one we inherited.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1956	Thank you. National MP Sasa Radulovic is not at the meeting. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1957	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was very important to hear, Madam Minister, that in the main focus of your work in the coming period you will question local self-government. I'm not going to say anything new if I say that the situation in local self-government is extremely difficult and simple, we can do an analysis and maybe there's an opportunity here in this discussion, debates, to see what causes this situation and see how, after solving these problems that have arisen, how to make a key step and key changes in local self-government. A lot of this was clouded today and yesterday during the debate. What are the real causes? On occasion, I was a member of the Parliament during that period and the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I know very well when the period of deprivement of funds to local self-government began. This is the period between 2008 and 2012. A key blow to local self-government was the reduction of the 2009 transfer funds, the withdrawal of 40% of the clear, fixed assets, which were defined by a great 2006 law, without any explanation under the conditions of a very difficult economic situation. Now, after the withdrawal of funds, the reduction of transfer funds, where there was a direct violation of the law, poor economic policy has seen a drastic decline in unemployment from 13% to 24% in a few years, and then the political measures tried to solve the problem in 2011. What could local self-governments, who lost their employees daily, get from 40% to 80%, and at the same time you took away the funds they received from non-intentional transfers? It was a disastrous decision that made nothing of local self-government. She's made a direct loss. On the other hand, some other decisions have been made during that period, I'm talking about the absence of any strategic approach to local self-government, I'm talking about the population that then ruled, about the ignorance and absence of any thinking where local self-government should go. At the time, you had an entirely non-transparent state aid policy and a subsidy to the investments made by SIEPA. We don't even know what the criteria were, how certain local self-governments were getting funding and why others weren't. The poorest are not, those who belong to the category of poorest municipalities. On the other hand, a law on the maximum number of employees in the local administration has been passed, in which, behold, the whole section of public enterprises, where penalties have been announced, has been excluded. And what was going on? Apparently, some local self-governments have reduced the number of employees in the municipal administration, but have therefore filled public enterprises with mass employment. And then it's being brought in, a human problem that I'm going to say more about, that has come up. This authority has brought amendments to the Law on Local Elections, where it has found that the mandate belongs to the committees exclusively in order on the local list, and in the end we have received a very bad approach to staff policy in local self-government. Now try to imagine this whole series of measures, bad measures, bad political decisions that completely destroyed the positive effects of the 2006 law. These are the causes of the situation in which local self-government was brought, and that must be said. This is where the collapse of the local self-government system began. Now the question is, what can we do in the next period when all the positive effects of the 2006 law are completely removed? Of course, serious reform is needed and serious and legislative reform is needed in relation to the position of local self-government and how local self-government works. I saw, there were announcements of changes in the structure of non-purpose transfers that would encourage competition at the level of local self-government when it comes to tax-gathering or attracting foreign investment, even one name was to refer to transfer funds for tax efforts, or something like that came up. So it's necessary to change, since the non-purpose transfers have been completely destroyed, their structure needs to be changed. It may be necessary to change and the amounts to be shared, especially when it comes to a general transfer that had the largest amount and that were given to local self-government. Not to mention that non-intentional transfer that was subsidized, of a non-intentional transfer that was catastrophic, where we didn't even know by which criteria it was assigned. On the other hand, if we want serious access to strategic planning for local self-government planning, it must insist on the programme budget. The programming budget must be defined and focused on the objectives. That means we'll make local self-government plan what their local self-government will look like in a few years. It's the right way to take responsibility. The current linear way of forming the budget has proved insufficient, especially in the work concerning the responsibility of local leaders. The constitutional provision on the obligation to keep the state on a level playing field for regional development must be updated. This implies a change in the approach to granting state aid, subsidies, when it comes to foreign investors, and the focus of these subsidies beyond the largest centres of Belgrade and Novi Sad, where most of the funds have been withdrawn, subsidies, but therefore other environments, of course, and other measures of the government of Serbia, which concern strengthening infrastructure and incentives for development, must simply be allocated to those environments and encourage investment in those environments. Of course, the important political issue is the staff issue. The staff issue implies, we now, as of January 1st, the Law on Employment in Local Self-Government, where local self-government will have an obligation to adopt an annual staff plan, but we must also consider changing the legislation and way of selecting individual authorities at local level, because it will be the only way to take responsibility when it comes to the functioning of local self-government. The Serbian People's Party is absolutely committed to decentralisation and strong local self-government. This is the moment to go into serious reform in local self-government. You must in the coming period, and I suggest you, a series of these laws and political ones, but also economic ones, to bring here, because the time has come for someone to start dealing seriously with local self-governments, because they were abandoned, because everything other than that level of government that was closest to the citizens was being taken care of, because they were making disastrous political decisions between 2008 and 2012. It is now time after the resolution of the situation to move into the reform process, which will include both political and financial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1958	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is practically the first law of this government, and they've waited quite a long time for citizens. I'll remind you of the fact that when you called these previous elections, you said it was because the reforms couldn't wait. The last meeting, or previous assembly, passed the last law, unless I'm wrong, in mid-December of the previous year, which means that we've waited quite a long time for this law. You're reducing funds that have local self-government by this law and you've tried, of course, to have negative effects in the public, what's a fact, and the fact is that they're reducing acquired rights, you've tried to justify it in different ways. You, of course, used what previous regimes were used to when something needed to be collected or when to be taken somewhere. You say first -- they'll raise electricity 20% by the end of the year, so when they collect 10, then we should be thrilled. It was the same here. The first announcement was that much more funds would be seized, so it was about eight billion. Finally, when 4.8 has been taken away, it must be necessary for all the presidents of the municipalities, mostly from the SNS, to show satisfaction about it, but it is clear that none of these presidents of municipalities and cities are satisfied. Why? It is clear that every local self-government has as much jurisdiction as it has money. If we don't fool ourselves, you're welcome to give jurisdiction, if there's no money, then no one will be able to show up in any way, it won't work. You know very well that municipalities are already in an extremely difficult situation and that without adequate financial resources they will not be able to function. You also said that this is one of the austerity measures. It can't be called a austerity measure, when one, when the central level of government kidnaps, takes, however, not to use difficult expressions from the locals, especially when you won't save it, but will spend a republican level. This isn't even going to pay back, this isn't going to go to any other, let's say, expenditure, but this is going to be spent by the republican level of government. It is a large amount of 4.8 billion for poor and poor Serbia and poor municipalities, but it is less than 40m euros. I'm not saying it should have been taken, maybe as some say, by babies, one way or another, but you could have, here's my proposal from NGOs. Over 300m euros are taken annually by NGOs. In most cases, it is the cancer of a Serb society, which works against a state that works against the people, which is where it should have been taken and where much less would have hurt. Every regime encounters a dilemma, where it will take and where it will give. So, you had a choice, you're in an ungrateful situation. I expected a minister who's been here for years to show up first. But here we have a new minister, and then you're still talking, another excuse, saying this provides macro-economic stability. Can Serbia's macro-economic stability be secured by 4.8 billion? He can't. Maybe, maybe the current liquidity, but macroeconomic stability, you'll admit it's really far from that amount. At the same time, you boast of surpluses and take from local self-government. So, where would that money go? He'd go to the payroll, go to these little projects, paint schools, maybe get some hospital equipment. These are funds that would return to the state to a large extent directly, through income taxes, through VAT, through various other ways, or by those workers in municipalities, who do not have large salaries, ordinary workers do not have, executives have, buy basic life supplies, pay electricity and other supplies. You were criticised, and that was particularly interesting yesterday, and some MPs from the ruling parties, so yesterday we heard that this law is a great injustice, which has to be corrected, so Mr. Pastor said it wasn't a good law, but that it was only the beginning of the government, so let's vote until you're a little bit stalking. I'm sure he'll vote. Always trying part of the ruling coalition's MPs to play some opposition, criticise, criticise, criticise for the cameras, and when the day comes to vote, then in silence, of course, everyone respects party discipline and vote for everything they have to vote for. Furthermore, you said that the implementation of the fiscal decentralisation model envisioned the 2011 law. Right, but if you're reducing these rights now, how can you logically explain that this is not centralization? Of course it is. Here's the question -- is it celery, is it justified to take away from local self-government? Belgrade is the one who gave the most. Belgrade is the one who normally has the lowest percentage of the funding, and Belgrade's city municipalities are now further damaged in the previous period by practically taking over all business premises and thus abolishing, not local self-government units, because these are not urban municipalities, but the city's municipalities have abolished another extremely generous income and income that they have certainly planned for their future and development of these municipalities. We need you to tell us today whether this most difficult period is behind us or not. That's what we're hearing, first of all, from the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. If the most difficult period is behind us, if we're making a surplus now, if we have a strong economic development, then why this reduction? You know very well that the municipalities are unable. You say, "Let them increase the number of employees." They were five years old. Did they increase it? They were much more stimulating then, when you were already talking about stimulations, because then they had a higher percentage of income tax, or salary tax that went directly into their budget. You're talking about a good case of Belgrade city that, by centralising public procurement, has saved 1.2 billion dinars, as you say. That's a very discussional question. We don't have enough time right now, but next time I'm going to get you what conditions are being explored, how pointless it is for some tenders, and how it's drawn that the company is only going to be able to compete there. For example, I will say that for the pollination of mosquitoes now being carried out from the ground, it is prescribed that the firm that receives it must have a registered helicopter owned. The mosquitoes were never pollinated from the helicopter, and it's quite clear, and it's obviously something that was drawn for a company. However, before coming to power, the SNS pledged a billion euros, not a billion dinars, but would save billions of euros through crime and corruption deals led by the DS, but so. It was really nice for me to listen to today on the day of October 5th as the performers of the work and the bulldozers of the revolution and those who today inherit their values, goals and ideology...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1960	Ambassador, we agreed, we're not talking about October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1961	Today is October 5th. I'm the one who praises them. I praise each other. I end up trusting and trusting each other, whatever they say about each other, they're all right. So there's a lot that can be resented by this law. I'll just have one more thing from the explanation. You say, "The proposed solutions affect all units of local self-government by redistributing money from income tax." So you're trying to hide what's obvious. It doesn't affect redistribution. There's always some redistribution. It is affecting the reduction of funds, as the previous law has affected by the increase, now has an impact on the reduction. The fact is, you can't hide, that the funds are being reduced and that the rights acquired are being abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1962	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Are you authorized? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1963	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when it comes to October 5th and mentioning DS and her role in all this, I was in high school at the time. The values of October 5 are at least that some today cannot carry guns in the congregation, some cannot smuggle oil without dealing with politics, some cannot announce killings without having to deal with politics. I think we expected a lot, like my generation, and, on the other hand, a generation above me. It wasn't always everything we planned for and what we hoped for, but the values of October 5 remain permanent when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1964	MP, about DS or about October 5th?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1965	When it comes to DS and its role in this, for the simple reason that it is Serbia's permanent paved path to modern societies...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1966	The MP specifically meant burning parliament. Please don't explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1967	... towards Eurointegration. It is something about the role of the DS in these changes, as we had the opportunity to hear, precisely from radicals, who in the 1990s, together with the SPS led this country and brought it to ruin, they spoke of Serbia's criminalisation by the DS. So, I just want to say that we have found the country in ruins, that today the country is on a safe path to the EU and I think that this is the biggest credit exactly DS, when it comes to the value of October 5th and everything that follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1968	Thank you. The word is Aleksandra Tomic. Have Nikola Jolovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1969	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, People's MPs, today we have a new step in the quality of budgeting. What has to be said is that the Ministry of Finance held public debates in large cities animated all local self-governments to pass a new law based on a report made by the Fiscal Council and its opinion that he finally gave for this version of the amendments and the addition of the laws. The new concept practically said that eight billion dinars should be returned, not because of the return to the republican budget, because it simply does not need to be ignored that entrusted businesses are essential affairs of local self-government and guarantee in general the budget of the local self-government is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, every mayor, every president of the municipality that can't repay, simply breaks into Serbian citizens, that is, the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we are considering here once a year. Therefore, local self-government with its management of public finances has not been allocated, so their budgets now belong only to them or only to the citizens of that municipality, but simply to all of us. Because of such governance, we have debts, above all, of the Republic of Serbia, because if one Smederjevska Palanka leaves such a budget that it is in the debt of 1.7 billion dinars, then that obligation is assumed by the finance ministry, the republican budget. You know what happened to Smederevski Palanka, I'm saying this because you as a local self-government probably now that we're talking about finance you should know, it's been done for the first time in the life of UPPR. Commissioners, debtors who have certain claims from the Smederjevska Palanka municipality had to sit together with the Finance Ministry to make a system of how these debts would be paid back. Meanwhile, the city, the municipality must continue to live, so it must settle its obligations, it must have income but must have expenditure. So what I'm saying is that when a Kragujevac has a debt of 120m euros, he has two and a half budgets, if one Smederjevska Palanka has six debt budgets, then she has problems in functioning. These problems have been inherited by this government, the local self-government that took over now after the local elections, after 2012, now in 2016 they have to face and overcome these problems. That must be decidently told to Serbian citizens, which is what it is when we talk about budgets. When we talk about having to reduce revenue from 3% to 6%, then we have to say that those are the standards we're simply obliged to, not just to the IMF, if we want to have sustainable finance. What does sustainable finance mean? It means as much as you earn, as much as you spend. No local self-government at this point, and a small number of them can't boast that it can work even though it has surpluses, because it has debts from previous years and it has to pay back. Therefore, if you look at the final accounts, or the budgets of local self-government, none at this time are able to function in this way. As a result, the Republic of Serbia's budget is helping on the one hand, and on the other hand in co-operation with international institutions, the World Bank, the IBRD is withdrawing certain funds for certain projects. I'll tell you that on 29 September, the Ministry of Energy withdrew certain funds to fund energy efficiency for 15 local self-government. They have received some funds, with local self-government having to participate with 30% of the funds, so 125 million dinars on 15 local self-governments. There are funds for certain energy efficiency projects when we talk about public buildings, but also when we talk about heatification, about introducing certain boilers on biomass. She got the Babusnica, the Frog, the Mininica, besides getting the Royal and the Krushevac. I mean, we really thought about local self-governments that are very hard to operate. What should surely be done in the future is that the percentage of wages must be out of line. On the basis of the Fiscal Council's report, we saw that the participation of salaries in the total mass that local self-government has ranged from 7% in Chatetina because the Čateina municipality is one of the municipalities that has a really rich tourist offer, to Novi Pazar, which has 41% compared to its budget. Therefore, it should be said that what you said the average percentage of 23% should be leveled for all local self-government. It has been observed somewhere that local self-governments considered underdeveloped have a much higher percentage, higher than 23, moving up to 39, and they are more developed towards a smaller percentage. So I think this is something to work on. It is good that the Fiscal Council supported the amendments and additions of this law, but he said in his second part that we did not have the strength to reform public finances as far as local self-government is concerned and that is what needs to be constantly insisted on. It should be said that 29% of total capital investments in local self-government have been found, and that the increased number of costs this government has since 2014 started to reduce through employment, i.e. through the Employment Prohibition Act. Of course, it should be said that many local self-governments have tried to play the law by 2016, so let's say in the legal part they tried to declare municipalities as cities because they would increase their budget size, the number of employees who were not humanely able to deal with it. Therefore, it should be fair to all, but it should be said which local self-government has indeed brought great harm. We had even in Belgrade some local self-governments that had borrowed loans, such as the Zvezdar municipality where the guarantee city of Belgrade has raised a loan of 2m euros with an interest rate of 15.5% and 17% for the reconstruction of local communities. Imagine in the central city municipalities you are reconstructing local communities and reconstructing a pool worth 2m euros, with interest worth 500,000 euros paid so far. I want to say that the failed investments of a particular political set that reigned until 2012 and 2016 have shown that they would rule today and show that they were only thinking about themselves and that all the costs were being delivered to all Serbian citizens. This is why today is very important that you came as someone with experience in working with the Assembly, practically SKGO, or the International Conference of Assemblys and Cities, because based on your experience in the future, we hope that when the new concept of the Law on Local Self-Government comes that will surely bring about major changes, where I think the resistance will be even greater, we all have the strength to make these changes and implement them in local self-governments. You understand that everyone in local self-government is very difficult, because debt is big, because the problems that are inherited are great, but we have to deal with them step by step. In the voting day, we will surely support this solution as one of the first steps in the adoption and reform of public finances in local self-government. I wish you a lot of success on that road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1970	The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1971	Dear Presidents, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, the main reason for amending this law is to harmonise the redistribution of incomes made on the basis of the income tax between local self-government units and the Republic of Serbia. The 2006 Law on the financing of local self-government, which entered into force in 2007, prescribed that local self-governments account for 40% of the profit tax. The 2006 law could be considered relatively generous with regard to the provision of funds at local level, as the total level of the prescribed funds for local self-government was somewhat higher than was necessary. For us specifically in Novi Pazar, it was indeed very helpful for the secretary of state at the ministry of Mr. Ivan Bosnjak regarding the application of this law. The changes to this 2011 law, i.e. the implementation of the fiscal decentralisation model, as the Fiscal Council at the time, have resulted in an increase in the deficit of 1.1% of GDP, representing a deficit in the state register of nearly 40 billion dinars on an annual basis. This result was the result of a proposal whereby 80% of profit tax revenues belong to local self-governments, a proposal that is not based on modern fiscal practice recommending that the profit tax is dominantly central to the government. These changes in the 2011 law have led to that relationship between the obligations and the corresponding revenues of the central and local level of government. The proposed solutions to this law result in a return of about 4.8 billion dinars from local to the republican budget, which will largely allow the correction of the vertical fiscal imbalance between the central and local levels of government, as agreed by the current arrangement with the IMF. The redistribution will be done in the following way and this will be 74% for municipalities instead of the 80% so far and 77% for cities instead of the 80% so far. The correction of the percentage of redistribution of income tax is, as I initially said, the fiscal consolidation measure, aimed at reducing the overall fiscal deficit and preserving macroeconomic stability. These amendments also bring into line with the rules in the field of taxation in terms of identifying income from real estate to the Republic of Serbia. The amendment provides for the abolition of the local self-government of the tax effected on its territory, in particular on the income tax of citizens, and on the income from immovable property. Namely, when it comes to the income of natural persons, the proceeds of the lease on immovable property are subject to regulation of the law governing the taxation of the income of natural persons as income from capital and as such belong to the Republic of Serbia. I believe that these amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government will also have positive consequences in reducing the gray economy since local self-government will now also work to curb the so-called ". work on black and will thus try to amortise the lack of funds these laws will have in the budget. The proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government of cities and municipalities include the process of financial consolidation carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from which it must not be excluded and therefore SNS MPs will support this proposal in the voting day, thereby giving full support to the measures the Government is implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1972	Thank you. The Word has a People's MP, Srdjan Nogo. He's not here. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1973	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us today the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Of course, this law must be passed first of all because an arrangement with the IMF has been agreed and now I have to mention something that has been apostropheeded here all day by the opposition. Of course, this government is responsible for respecting agreements and activities stemming from already signed agreements with the IMF, but this government is also responsible for bringing Serbia and all its citizens in order to finally establish sound foundations, and the country's healthy foundations can only be a healthy economic foundation for future generations to live better. I must also point out that the IMF also had a signed arrangement in 2008 with the government at the time, but after 27 days, it probably escaped from the country of Serbia because no agreed activity and any agreed commitments were respected. I must point out that yesterday we've been listening to stories about this law not being effective, that local self-government will be damaged by this law, that all the time it was actually trying to put one contrast and one contradiction between the republican and local levels of government. What I have to point out is that this law actually points to responsibilities and, above all, financial responsibility for both the republican and local levels of government. Everyone must save both at the republic and at the local level. I must stress that in two years' time, this government has achieved impressive results, above all, on the plan of reducing the budget deficit, but also on the plan of increasing GDP. The Republic of Serbia thanks to the responsible government has the highest GDP growth of all countries in the region. Only greater gross social growth has Romania, has Poland. They are, of course, EU members. What I must also point out, which is certainly one of the steps and one of the consequences of the adoption of this law, is to preserve the country's macroeconomic stability. Why does it matter? Because preserving the country's macroeconomic stability is a pillar and condition of the country's economic development, including the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to point out is that here all day long, the opposition has been on the rise as if I don't know what incomes, and I don't know what number of amended members of the Law on the financing of local self-government. I must point out for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is about amending only one member of the law and Article 35. The law on the financing of local self-government and not all of the items, but only point 1 of point 1 of point 3.6 and Article 2 of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So that's all that changes with this law. What I must also commend, which is very important for the implementation of a law, is that in one transparent and extremely responsible way the RS government has worked to pass this law. It is very important that as partners they were also a permanent conference of cities and municipalities because the government's task certainly is not to listen but to hear and install in the law what is certainly relevant to and corresponds to both cities and local self-government because both cities and local self-government and RS are working on a unique task, which is the well-being of all its citizens. I would also like to commend the fact that, in the draft of this law, the Fiscal Council took part alongside the relevant ministries, as well as the university, which is also important from the academic aspect. Madam Minister, I wish you a lot of success in your work. You have a lot of energy and with your energy I hope you will contribute to the best functioning of the government, of course, all in favour of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1974	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1975	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, respected Minister Brnabic, I am very pleased to see that you have found it appropriate, to say immediately, that you answer the MPs' questions and that you have taken part in this debate. At the very beginning, I ask you as ministers what is a local self-government for the government of the Republic of Serbia, if we take for the last four years 53 billion dinars? We've left some administrations, some party officials with salaries that don't have a dinar one to do something, to invest somewhere, to help people in everyday life who live in their municipalities, to solve their problems, they already exist only to sit in their offices and eventually get paid. No wonder then they say that only officials in this Serbia, the way they are, live better, while citizens live worse and worse. On the other hand, who do you take the money for, 4.8 billion this time, and 53 in all? You take those people who live in these municipalities, you don't take the president of the municipality, not the Smederjev Palanka, not the Indjia, not the Chaetin, not the Mayor of Capca, you take the people who live there. For this reason, I think it may be exaggerated and in the heat of battle there are politically spoken some words that do not stand, do not be kidnapped by children, but in any case, you are making it impossible on the case of Chajetina that someone from Sljevivica, some Jovana and Jelena who are second and eighth grade elementary school "Milosavljević" travel by this school bus from the village of Sljevivica to their school. That's where we compromised the system's functioning. The price is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When other examples are also our oldest citizens, you often have problems in large cities, so I come from Belgrade, often pensioners who have reduced pensions, who do not have or are in a situation where there is no one to care about them, some municipalities in Belgrade or the city were provided by genrento housewives. So these people needed someone to replace the lamps in the apartment so they wouldn't live in the dark. Today, we put it at risk by taking the money. When it comes to young couples, what does that mean in life? Twenty-five, 30, 35 years old, not only often happens not to work both parents, but it happens much more often that both are unemployed and that a long period of time passes until they get a job and have a child. That's the luckiest thing for them. Then we have a situation where some of the damages that were well organized or planned some of their incomes provided baby packages for those first few months, while stabilised financially, that's 10, 15 thousand dinars, who could and who had how many. We have also endangered this by taking 4.8 billion from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm done, you said everyone has to save, I totally agree with that, but how to save citizens with unconstitutionally reduced pensions, both the police, the military and the doctors to save with reduced salaries, and on the other hand we have 75 billion dinars in the budget that are committed to the government's conclusion non-transparent for someone's private television, that someone is employed under a contract of work and then only party officials or soldiers are employed in Serbia and have some benefits from this budget. This is what it looks like from the eyes of the citizens and for this reason I ask you to answer these few questions. Otherwise, I'm glad you really took more than a part of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1976	Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1977	Thank you. I would not agree with you to make it look like that from the eyes of the citizens, because it looks like what the government looks like and what local self-government looks like, it seems to me that it looks like from the eyes of the citizens and that the citizens understand all the measures of fiscal consolidation and, as hard as they find it, that they value them, that's how it works for me. I'd go back to it if they didn't have the money to invest, I think there are local self-governments, I mentioned yesterday the new Varosh, which singles out 36% of the budget only in investment, so they have money to invest, if budgets are properly organised and spent in the right way. You have local self-government, for example in local self-governments in Serbia, you have a range of salary expenditures between 9.5%, participation of staff expenditure at total expenditures of local self-government 9.5% to 52.3%. So you have local self-governments that spend 9% on salaries and spend 53% on salaries in that range. It also depends on how much money they have to invest. So there's a lot of local self-government. I think, when you say - this bill puts the system in operation, I think it's the opposite. I don't think we've compromised the functioning of the system, I think that by that previous law, by a proposal in December 2015, I think it would seriously endanger the functioning of the system and I think the government has shown that it is ready to hear and adopt this in a broad public debate and to make a good balance between what needs to be done for the country as well as what local self-government needs without jeopardising the quality of the services they provide to citizens and businesses. After all, when I talk about school buses, social givings, etc., I am absolutely up for it, and I really hope that today in this debate you have seen how seriously I care about citizens having everything, even those necessary conditions for life. You have an example of local self-government in which the separation for NGOs is, and I fully respect the civil sector and I have been in my career voluntarily involved in various NGOs, so I respect them, but you have local self-governments in which the separation for the NGO sector is greater than the budget for the separation for health, social and culture, and the same needs to be changed. We can't influence these local self-governments because they're decentralised, but we should appeal and that we all know together and thank you for a constructive, truly collegiate approach. I think there should be some minimum understanding among all of us, independent of the parties, non-party, as parliament, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, about which there is no dispute, and I don't think there is any dispute over whether or not someone should have water in 2016 means just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1978	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. I don't think you have a basis for replication, you've got an answer to the findings and questions you've asked, so let's move on. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1979	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government, which consists of amending two members of this law and which are of a short form, however very significant in essence, as the percentage of the percentage of the income of the local self-government tax is changing. In the future, municipalities are proposed to receive 74% instead of 80% of profit tax revenues, cities 77% instead of 80% and Belgrade City 66% instead of the current 70%. This will provide an additional 4.8 billion dinars for the republican budget, which is certainly necessary to preserve the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why do we even have to cut this part of the local self-government income today? Unfortunately, because the previous government in 2011, without any analysis, made one final political decision, which then amended this law and which increased the percentage of income from profit tax from the then 40%, to 80%, with an explanation that this increase would stimulate local self-government to create new jobs. However, it happened exactly the opposite, the investment was small and today it is clear to all of us that some representatives of local self-government before 2012 very badly led these local self-governments and that we found enormous debts and various affairs. So, let's say, in Novi Sad, from which I come, there is a known affair where the previous government only spent over four million euros illegally on the investment of the construction of Boulevard of Europe, by transferring 600 million dinars of advances to a private company, and only 138 million of them, after which 462 million dinars were missing from the company's account, which is why some of the party officials were then ruling and arrested. So much for who's taking money from the citizens. A completely opposite example of this, the responsible behaviour towards the citizens' money, has saved more than 200 million dinars in Novi Sad, headed by Mayor Milos Vučević, who in only one tender for a bridge on the Boulevard of Europe, because the procurement she wanted to implement, where the price was increased by just over 200 million dinars. Also, the city's leadership with Milos Vučević has ended up in the Bulevar Europe with sewers and purifiers in suburban cities worth hundreds of millions of dinars, and the town of Novi Sad has not borrowed a single dinar since 2012, which is certainly an example of how a serious mayor does it. Unfortunately, the money that local self-government received by the 2011 increase was mostly spent on current consumption. Even 42% of this money was spent on profits, 50% on goods and services, and capital expenditures were reduced by 29%, which shows how much this really was one bad decision. What has also happened is that the inflow into the republican budget has been reduced, as a result, a budget deficit of 1.1% of GDP, or even 40 billion dinars, which unfortunately led us to a situation that, for example, in 2011, the budget minus 13.5 billion dinars. Minister Brnabic proposed yesterday a way for local self-government to replace some of the money, primarily through a stronger fight against the gray economy, which is certainly our obligation, through an update of the property database, because the local self-governments that did this showed that they had up to 25% higher incomes than property tax. Of course, once the increase is made, when the minimum profit increases and the tax base will be higher, and local self-government revenues will be higher. Also, I think there's another way, and that's through the government's investment office where local self-government can get funds for investment projects, of course with the proper documentation delivered, and thus replace some of the funds they're about to lose. I certainly call upon the government to see that it is indeed those local self-governments that will lose most of all by this law. The aim of passing such a law is certainly to correct the imbalances created by the 2007 and 2011 laws and we need to view it as part of the fiscal consolidation and recovery measures that were completely devastated by bad policy before 2012. Also, I believe that local self-governments, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must bear the burden of reforms, which have already shown results, because unlike the period before 2012, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is now in a plus of over 30 billion dinars, which shows that the government of Aleksandar Vukic is excellently running public finances and has a clear vision of Serbia's future. That's why we have to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1980	Thank you. Jasmina Nikolic is not present. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1981	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. First of all, all the congratulations for your dedication, for your energy and for the new energy that you young people bring to parliament. I wouldn't agree with colleagues who said you didn't have any political experience. The way you answer both to them and to us tells us not to have political experience, but first, you are responsible, committed, and second, you know much more about laws than they knew in 2011. In fact, it's a very bad 2011 law and that's why we have a change of this law I'm talking about now, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia has run out of 40 billion dinars, which has increased the public debt of the Republic of Serbia by 1.1% of GDP for 2012. Please, why? Is it because of lack of information, or because of next year's election, or because of the devasting still of the Republic of Serbia? The law was passed, although it was a recommendation from the Fiscal Council not to do it at any cost. In fact, we're a country in reform. This is just one measure in order for the macroeconomic plan to be stabilised as soon as possible, and about how this government is leading a responsible policy, we can only conclude that the budget deficit has fallen from 6.5% to 2.5%. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia! You can see that every step of the way. What is very important and what needs to be pointed out is that in 2015, on a proposal from the IMF and the Fiscal Council, there was finally a public hearing, which was supposed to have happened before, but my God, there it was. Thanks to the commitment of this government, 105 cities and municipalities have agreed that this is a good law and that it should. What exactly happened? In 2011, the state, or budget, was poor by 40 billion dinars just because income on salaries and 40% of local self-government income on employee earnings was increased to 80%. It's just nonses. Local self-governments need to understand that they have to fight for their own profit. In part, they will get it from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but they have to do it on their own, as the Vozdovac municipality does, and I will tell you how and why. Namely, I can invest. It is precisely in the Vozdovac municipality that Ikea, a Swedish large investor, will be employed by over a few hundred people. Good example of practice. In 2010, when the SNS won the local elections, we found a budget that was ten times lower than anticipated according to population, area and student numbers. That's more inadmissible. So I ask the Ministry and the Government next time not to be a stepmother to certain municipalities, such as DS 2009 to 2010, and then, only in 2012, the situation improved dramatically for the better. You mentioned that Smederevska Palanka, 80km from Belgrade, has no water. I will tell you that Voždovac municipality, which has an urban and rural part, in the rural part of the village of Ripanj, which is the largest village in Serbia, half of the population had no water until 2012. Can you understand something like that? Since 2012, with commitment, the responsibility of local self-government, the problem has been partially solved. So every year, as much as there's money, the water line is built. One improvement. Then, there was lighting, untegorized roads, schools, kindergartens, and all the funds of local self-government. The funds of local self-government, you know how they can get in the way. From taxes, from real estate taxes, from taxis across the board, from bringing in investors. So, I would ask the local presidents and all the bigger at the local level to devote a little more to the work, to bringing investors, and then each municipality would be an example of maybe a better bang than the Voždovac municipality. I thank you, you are doing a great job and I hope that in the coming period these reforms will come faster, that Serbia will, as we see already, step big steps towards that exit from debt slavery, that as soon as possible will come out of it. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the proposal for this excellent law in Dan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1982	Thank you. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1983	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the new measure of fiscal consolidation aimed at reducing the overall fiscal deficit and the alleged preservation of macroeconomic stability for which it reaches is precisely what we are now discussing, the redistribution of the income tax, to the harm of local self-government, in favour of the central level of government. This is after reducing pensions and earning public sector employees another blow from authorities to their people, and the measure of reducing pensions and salaries is justly justified by making savings in the budget and reducing deficits. The result is that citizens live worse and worse. What the SRS is extremely resentful is the argument that this is the result of an agreement with the IMF because the fact is that everything this fund is looking for is solely at the expense of the Serb people. These great experts should be sent to live for at least a few months in one of the cities or municipalities in Jablaničko, Pcinjska, Toplicko and Pirotski County, by their choice. Some local self-government in Serbia may not feel the negative consequences of passing this law, perhaps, but not for sure, but all the municipalities and cities in the districts I mentioned will also feel how. One reason why unemployment is extremely high is, for example, that the Jablani County has long since been able, unfortunately, to boast of some new significant investment, a new factory that would employ a number of people. I will remind you that recently there has been an actual story about whether a factory will be opened in Leskovec or Kruševec. The epilogue is that it will still be in Kruševec, and Leskovac is still around this time. Some production plants have been opened in Nisavska and Pcinjska County, which is certainly significant for the residents of those places where they are opened, but there is an apparent circumvention of Leskovec, as one big city. Where some investors will come from, where new jobs will be achieved in Serbia for many years is a political issue, exclusively politically, because the state is giving so-called. to foreign investors, incentives from the budget. In this respect, we recognize the great reason why the adoption of this law will also affect Leskovci's people because an increase in the number of employees in some local self-government can in one part compensate for the reduction in the amount of funds transferred on the basis of the income tax. However, where new jobs can be expected to increase the amount of this revenue, there is no compensation, there are only damages, and some damages will never be resolved because the majority of the population is on the verge of endurance and huge unemployment. Emigrations are growing, and young people who do not tend to go abroad, then tend at least to go to Belgrade, and the fact is that all of Serbia cannot live in Belgrade. That should have been considered by the legislator before he obeyed the IMF's advice and damaged local self-government at the level of Serbia as a whole. The bill's proposal estimated that local self-government units would be denied around 4.8 billion dinars in 2017, totaling 1.5 billion dinars to cities of 1.3 billion dinars. We in the SRS have made a budget of how much less in 2017, when law enforcement begins on this basis, will be denied the city of Leskovec and the bill has shown that it is the amount of 42.6 million dinars, less than it was in 2016. But it is provided that there is no reduction in the number of employees in 2017. Otherwise, when it comes to the key thing that the legislator of this law states for law-making, the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit and the preservation of macroeconomic stability, it is very important to point out to the promoter that the truth is that the government in Serbia only uses these targets for marketing purposes and represents itself as someone who takes care of budget savings, and the truth is that public debt has already reached 26.6 billion euros, if we calculate it, it already comes in dinars and billions. This is unequivocally telling us that the government is saving on what would go to the population for perhaps a little better living standards, but that some other things don't save a bit. The logical question that is being imposed, and what did the proposer fail to write in an explanation for the adoption of this law, is - for what purpose will the central level of government use the savings because it is obvious that what is written, that the reduction of the total fiscal deficit, is not convincing? We will be able to talk more about this when the budget law is passed for 2017. The promoter can be sure that the SRS parliamentary group will analyse in detail how the funds will be allocated and what they will be saved on, and on which they will not, what a planned deficit will be, but we will also monitor the implementation of the budget and what the effects of one move will be. We will monitor whether the funds taken by this law from local self-government in favour of the central level of government are directed towards increasing subsidies to agriculture, where they are necessary or may end up as subsidies to some public undertakings that are losing, whether they are aimed at improving the conditions of education, in health care or going to the name of donations to certain NGOs, and we know what kind of all of them are there and how justified their programme activities are based on which they are allocated funds from the budget. We heard from the promoters yesterday that in 2017, the government will participate in financing investment projects in those local self-governments, which, due to the reduction in the flow of money based on the adoption of this law, will not be able to finance them and there will be issues similar to those that are being opened when a new factory is planned, in which local self-government will be financed investment projects, in which it will not. A significant investment that is very important for the interests of the citizens of Predejan on Corridor 10 to build a loop that would have a very great significance for the development of Leskovec, Black Treva, which would also speed up the development of tourism on Lake Vlasotin. I think the minister will have insight into this fact. Another important thing to point out, which is quite well pictured by the central level of government's attitude towards local self-government, is one law passed last year, which is the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, which has set that maximum number, and in this case local self-government has again drawn a thicker end. This is all precisely defined, and by contrast, there is plenty of room left for the central level of government to keep employees even in cases where there are more employees, when competences overlap, as is the case with individual ministries and some agencies. When we return to the law that is on the agenda today, we should further point out that the amount of income from income tax is reduced, which in many budgets is the unit of local self-government, the highest amount of income and which in some budgets is more than the amount of non-intentional transfers from the Republic. When all the facts are taken into account, it can be concluded with full law that the adoption of this law today is not in favour of fiscal decentralisation, that the central level of government is incorrectly related to local self-government and that the consequences will be significant. The consequences have already been said, and the proponent should really consider whether he will continue to insist on the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1984	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1985	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief in my presentation, since I know it's a long list of speakers. After all, there is no need to repeat what the minister has explained very well, what these reasons are and why this law should be voted on. I point my discussion in that direction, and it seems to me that we represent these two days as two different positions, part of the MPs representing the local, and part of the Republic, a false picture. A fake picture, especially of those who've had all the time in this world for 12 years, and somewhere in 16, to do whatever's right. Well, I wouldn't be here if they had finished everything they were supposed to do, I wouldn't even be talking today. The second part of the discussion I will direct, and that is what I was encouraged by, my wonderful friend and friend, the honourable MP from the Kings, as he mentioned Kraljevo, Mr. Vesovic, mentioned some 41 million that we, as a city, will lose at this point due to changes to this law. I have to remind an esteemed colleague, and he probably knows it well, given that he's been adopting the King's City budget for years, that the transfer of funds from the Republic level is about a quarter of the city's budget from about 870 million, at least for the last five years that I know of, which is three billion and I don't know how many dinars of our budget, a huge amount. I'm not happy and I'm not happy about the transfer. It says that we are a poorly developed city, that economy doesn't work and that the state has to help us finance all our projects, I'm not just talking about income. Even the city of Kraljevo is like a city example, as regards both debt and credit and whatever, and I think you ministers have that information, that the King is one of the uninvited credit cities. What the city itself can do, what we noticed when we took over 2012 local self-government, it is precisely to pay attention primarily to all taxes, taxis and everything they haven't charged for years. In 2013, when we brought down all these records, we found that there were no charges at that time of billions of millions of dinars of various liabilities. From when they set up a coffee shop and someone drinks coffee and doesn't come to charge him for a regular solution. The fact that we're making arrangements to collect all these liabilities, and we don't have an instrument, we do, but we don't want to, is what local self-government should be dealing with. Or the fact that in 2013 we were able to find from the property of the city, of the 33,000 acres we have in the city, 10 acres nowhere was going. Nor did anyone charge for it, worked for someone, and tomorrow you could see corn, everything anyone planted, worked for his own interest and for his own expense. And not to mention the Agricultural Fund, which is one bright spot in the city of the King. By 2012, everyone was using the Fund's funds that were both returnable and non-refundable, meaning both credit and non-refundable, and no one who owed credit was returning, and expected that fund to be allocated to someone again. We've introduced a rule, we've charged everyone, and now that fund is working, and I think a large number of our agricultural producers are getting some funding for their further, more successful work. I think I've given some plastic examples and I don't want to take up any more of your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1986	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1987	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1988	I didn't notice you had any, you don't have a basis for replication. We're moving on with our work. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. You're giving up. Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it is obvious both the intention and the purpose you have of proposing this law and I cannot agree with these intentions and that goal, nor can I understand you for these intentions and for that purpose. First, I can't accept, I can't agree, because I know what the consequences are, what the consequences will be. I know that the unstable budgets will be even more unstable and must be centralized by this. Indeed, believing in your good intentions, frankly, because I've known you for a long time and I know what you're doing and who you are, this is centralised. If you are under 10% slowly pushing revenue from the total budget, i.e. income that the Republic has at the place, you are certainly bringing a huge number of municipalities into a position to give you a hand and ask to replace what is missing, and that is your discretionary right. It's called centralism. And I can't understand you, not you, you'll understand very quickly what I mean to tell you, I can't understand those who suggest something like that, and they don't realize that good functioning of local self-government is a prerequisite for good government functioning, simply. That the development budget at the restaurant is a prerequisite for good government work and that life is down at the bar level and that it's the hardest thing, I've been doing it for as long as a man can do, and I was a minister, working in the municipality, in the city, because you're here in direct contact with people, and you have to at least try to solve every problem they have. So, what's the point of this? The point is, we're going to have a bigger problem in the operation of the joints. It's just a question of why it's done. Why is it that when we know that almost everyone in the budget is in trouble at the bar, and we know and we say and you say that the surplus is in the budget, that the level in the budget is far above. The question is, why? Why, when it's different in Europe, why, when in the world it's different and why don't you do something that's more normal, to support local self-government by supporting it and the state level. Yesterday I was in trouble to say so, to hear a fellow MP sitting across from me, I don't know his name, because I don't remember his name, and I know what he looks like, because it's impossible not to remember that character. So I'm someone there, as he says, who led the city to such and such a position. That's just not true. I've called the city's entire leadership now, that I and they're all in front of any TV, let's discuss that debt story, which is incorrect. The theme is the law. So I'm someone who, in 2004, came to a city that was a valley of famine and was in 137th place in the state by all characteristics, and very quickly with his team, we brought this city, to the city of the future and to the second and third places along with Novi Sad by all criteria. It has to do with the subject, in 2014 the government of Kragujevac was kidnapped. At that point, this was the situation. The second city in the country, the highest-level sport, the country's most sports sport, the biggest investment in the country, not only those the locale should be doing what the minister insists, and what I welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1990	Just one suggestion. I'm just asking you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1991	Let's say, in 2013, the largest home of health that exists, it's a radio city, not a Republic, an ambulance that no one has in these areas, it's a city. Hygiene at the highest possible level, corporate debts, Madam Minister, were very small, almost nonexistent. Salaries may have been a month late somewhere. At this point, after two years, you don't have a single investment in two years. You have a city that's practically an ecological bomb, you have a big problem in every sense. Since my colleagues need to talk, I'm just going to have one more digression. We have given some amendments, please respect them, to at least think about them, and that this horizontal level, which is not balanced through the Transfer Assets Act, try to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1992	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic, replica to the exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1993	To mention the head of the SNS Parliament Club, that it's some guy who's hard to remember. I remember very well the Law on Transfer funds between cities and municipalities, when Kragujevac, precisely because he was a respected colleague at the time, had the support then to transfer 450 million funds to Belgrade. At the time, Minister Mladjan Dinkic accepted it and the funds were seized from the city of Belgrade and transferred to Kragujevac. Now, for the devastation of a city like Kragujevac, it's impossible to do that in two years. It takes a lot more time. If it is true that there are only three garbage companies for one town of Kragujevac, which has nearly 200,000 inhabitants, the mayor cannot boast of success. If it is true that the City of Kragujevac has debts of two and a half budgets, and there is, because it is seen, you can see, because you can make debts in several ways. You can do your debts by in charge, then you need the ministry's consent. We know who the minister was at the time and who was giving these consents, but there's another way, you can unreally plan budget funds, and then carry out public works based on unreally planned budget funds and create a commitment. This was done by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and that is two and a half billion and it was done by the town of Kragujevac by 2014. Books are books. You can't falsify the data, you can't say that something hasn't been done...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1994	Comrade, please bring the end. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1995	When it's done, there's a clue that it was done that way and that the Kragujevac was so guided.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1996	Thank you. (Veroljub Stevanović, from town: Replica. ) Replication to the presentation of MP Veroljub Arsic? I didn't realize you were mentioned as an MP. [[Veroljub Stevanović, from town: Yes, replica. I'm mentioned.]] It was about Kragujevac, the way I handled Kragujevac in one period of time, as I understand it. I don't know why you recognized yourself there. We're moving on with our work. You have no basis for replication. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1997	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, as far as local self-government is concerned, I think that this attention is directed to the end and I think it should, because we are the first echelon to which citizens come most easily and, of course, expect us to meet their demands. The first announcement to reduce profits tax under local self-government was 50-50. I think it was brave of both the government and the new minister to come out and make the first announcement by the minister that it would not be 50-50 but what is proposed. I'm going to remind myself of some other things that have happened before, which I don't think have been mentioned in this period, which is that in 2010, for example, or local self-government, they've received new powers like water streams or rivers, and they haven't received funding, the accompanying funds. So it's executive decentralisation, but it's not even money. Let's say, in health care investment, investment maintenance, same without funds. So, municipalities, not only have the transfers been changed and the taxes on earnings have been changed, but the municipalities have also received new obligations. Something else that's not clear enough for me. I'm a technical person, but I haven't been able to understand the proposal, this is a good intention, that municipalities have 6% less income tax, and cities 3%. All mathematics says that there's the highest percentage of people who carry the most of the consequences of the reduction. In my personal opinion, I would have invested the amendment if I had the data, if we could just even that percentage, whether it was 75% or 76%, but I think citizens in municipalities and cities should bear the same burden. I think if there's more space, I think that 74% and 77% should be unique. I don't see any difference. Let's say you take one municipality and one city that, conditionally speaking, has income from profit tax per hundred million on an annual basis, 6% of the reduction is six million in the municipality, and in the city it's three million. It's not the same. Math doesn't talk, and I don't think anyone can convince me it's the same thing. That's why my well-intentioned proposal is to make it a single percentage, not reducing the amount of 4.8 billion dinars. Furthermore, municipalities are often taken here as bad examples, i.e. local self-government, and I think it's over-emphasised. Good municipalities, good cities need to be overemphasized. I think it'll be better for the citizens and for those who handle local self-government. So I think, let me say, good examples need to be exposed as hard as possible, to be in public, to be present. I come from a municipality where I've been working for a long time, and where I think we're doing our part of the job, because we've been working, I think we're doing it today. I'll make an example out of it. It's the municipality of Koceljev. So 30% is fewer workers in local self-government compared to what the state has prescribed. Average salaries are the first or second in the Mačvanska County, perhaps 30% in the upper border of municipalities in Serbia are the heights of wages. The share of salaries in the budget is between 17% and 19%. Exports from the Kocelev municipality are 2:1. So it's exported twice as much as it's imported. The economy is doing all right and reinvesting. Next, they have new investments. These investors who came, who invest there, local self-government brought them in, the government supported both the honors, and one and the other factories should soon start working and employ new workers. We owe no one anything. But this community and others are plagued by other problems. It's a 1991 law. It is a long name, it is the Law on the way and conditions of regaining the recognition of the right and return of land that has passed on to social property on the basis of the agricultural land fund and the confiscation due to the unexecuted obligations arising from the compulsory purchase of agricultural products. There are many municipalities that haven't finished that part of the job. It didn't depend on the municipalities. The municipality usually doesn't have enough land to return to its former owners, so if there's no land, then the municipalities from their budgets pay for it. Many municipalities pay for it and it is a serious percentage. The percentage moves, what year, from 2.5% to 10% of the annual budget. I think the municipalities are at least to blame that 63 years ago, if I've calculated correctly, which is what that injustice was done in those years, and that's where it pays off. I think that should be solidarity, like restitution. Will this be compensated through some new laws, in the sense that certain local self-governments are helped by these specific things that are happening on the ground, and where they are simply not the culprits for it? Simply, the law that was passed in 1991 makes local self-government pay for a missing piece of land. New laws on local self-government and funding are also announced here. I think we should keep in mind everything that's important to local self-government. To consult cities and municipalities, I don't think without them the law will be good, especially within the framework of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. I think they do it well and sublime needs and cities and municipalities. So far, they've proven to be a good partner to the government, and I think their good services should be used. What's most important to me, and I think probably for others, that developmental components, meaning development of the economy, employment, that brings something where the local and this state can grow, otherwise, without it, it's simply not possible. I want to point out something else. These are all some of my good intentions, not criticism, but some of my thinking, experienced and what's happening on the ground, which is that, for example, property tax in predominantly agricultural municipalities. There we have an old population that lives well on agricultural pensions. These pensions are low, small, etc. There are certain objects where, through the breakdown of property taxes, simply these people are not able to pay, so that these municipalities are in a rather difficult and complicated situation to pay, because there is simply this immobility, which is worth a certain amount, where is the percentage of the tax on property and which should be charged, but the question is whether these people who live there can pay it? Furthermore, we have irregularities, in my personal opinion, that's funding education, and that's where I mean basic and secondary education. The dude mare didn't turn out well anywhere, not even in double funding for secondary and primary education. If wages are financed from the central level and material costs are financed from the local level, I don't think that duality is simply good and it doesn't work to the best extent. That's why my proposal is that basic education and secondary education funding should go from one place, whether it's the Republic, whether it's a local, but from one place. I think that the choice of executives in primary and secondary education simply needs to be simpler and the person who gives the funds must also play a greater role in management. I think we have a lot of self-government in the selection of primary and secondary school directors. In conclusion, what is visible and what needs to be done is that the new law on local self-government and the financing of local self-government should reflect the real needs of cities and municipalities, its citizens, and I think of economic development. What's happening on the ground, although it's not the basic business of local self-government, but it's something basic to live on, which is economic development. If we have economic development, we have a better life. If we have a good economy, it's all hung up, the whole public sector is hung up. I will repeat once again that it would be good, if possible, to make equal percentages of the income tax, as far as municipalities and cities are concerned, if possible, at this stage of the Assembly's work. I think it would be fair both to the municipalities and cities and to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1998	Thank you. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u1999	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Madam Minister, respected fellow Members and fellow Serbian citizens, our MP group welcomes the involvement of non-party experts in ministerial positions, but it has not been noted that they would not be the first and last extra-party expert to come to the government, leaving it very quickly, failing to realise a part of his programme that came out of the profession. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina these days adopted the Declaration "A strong renewed regional policy for all regions after 2020". This declaration declares similar principles as the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It states that decisions will be made closer to citizens, that regions and local entities are responsible for the development and implementation of the strategy for the development and provision of services to citizens and that they should have a broad degree of autonomy, that the prerequisite for achieving good results is to have sufficient financial resources. These are the European principles on which Serbia has committed itself in the arrangement of local self-government, and this was adopted by the District Parliament in which the same parliamentary majority is. In the light of the proposed changes, the Government essentially cited the following reasons for redistributing the income tax: that according to the Fiscal Council, but also the 2006 law, which gave local self-governments only 40% of the tax on earnings, was relatively generous, and concluded that the 2011 law was twice as generous; that the existing redistribution of the income tax in favour of the locals contributed to the fiscal deficit of 1.1% of GDP; that by increasing the share of local self-government in the 2011 income tax was not accompanied by an increase in their responsibilities and that local self-government increased income on the basis of higher participation in the income tax was used to increase the cost of earnings and that capital investments were reduced; and that it is not in modern European practice that the tax on profits is dominantly belonging to the local. With regard to the generosity of the central level of government towards local self-government, it is useful to say that the participation of local self-government is already mentioned here, in public revenues in the continuing downturn since 2012 from 17.7 to 11.7 in 2015. The European average is 31.6%. Of all 28 European Union countries, only four countries single out a smaller percentage of total public revenues – Malta, Cyprus, Ireland and Greece. With regard to the impact of redistribution of income tax on the fiscal deficit, between 2006 and 2011, while half the income tax belonged to the locale, the fiscal deficit grew. After 2011 when redistribution changed double for the benefit of the locals, the fiscal deficit increased only in 2012 and subsequently in a continuous decline. That is why we doubt the government's view that redistribution of the income tax is the main cause of the fiscal deficit and we suspect that the fiscal deficit is being solved precisely by this. We are here all the time discussing how local and central authorities will redistribute 40m euros, while having RTB Bor spent 450m euros on capital investments, and the result of these investments is 300m euros in losses by two and a half years. On the one hand, we have 40m euros, and on the other hand we have 450 plus 300. The IMF is in the way of these 40, and it doesn't bother these 750. That's a very strange argument. In essence, the Government must provide us with serious and reasoned assurances that the fiscal deficit really could not have been solved otherwise. Let's say, by reducing the subsidies to ER Serbia, which had a similar amount to the one we've been talking about for two days. Furthermore, the increase in the share of local self-government in the 2011 profit tax has been accompanied by some increase in their competences. They were handed over certain affairs of care for homes of health, emergency situations, pharmacies and, finally, the introduction of municipal police. Let's not cut the funds to the municipal police, because they're already nervous enough. With regard to increasing the cost of earnings and reducing capital investments in local self-governments, these phenomena are hardly explained by the distribution of income tax, as the same trends have been marked at a republican level in the period 2008-2014. The nominal cost of the Republic budget increased 28%, capital expenditures decreased 22%. This is the fiscal council's data. At local level, capital expenditure, between 2008 and 2015, nominal palsy 20%, realistically 50%, cost for employees increased 25%. So they're similar percentages, we're about 20, 25, 28. So, the same trend in the Republic, as in the locale. I'm talking about the period 2008. - 2014. Therefore, the cost of earning growth, capital investment falls, unrelated to who gets a greater share of the profit tax, because these trends have not been changed at any level when the distribution is turned double in favour of the restaurant in 2011. In doing so, nominal earnings on the republican budget are five times higher than the nominal earnings of all cities and municipalities combined, with the least public sector employees having local self-government and most governments and its ministries. The consequences of insufficient investment over a long period of time are poor quality and insufficient availability of municipal services, even the most basic, not to mention investments in culture. I'll tell you, in Novi Sad the clock at the Petrovadin Fortress for over 50 years had a broken bell mechanism for more than 50 years. Many of us have not heard of life that the clock may ring. A colleague mentioned that only 70% of centrally controlled water systems in central Serbia are correct. In Vojvodina, only 16. Grain's water has been gone for years. Granjanin’s proper water has not been in place for years, but therefore has a “Days of Beer” for which the local government takes credit. True, citizens visit it massively, but the question is what would citizens do if local finances were presented to them in a transparent manner. A large number of local self-governments have undertaken obligations without prior provision of funds for their settlement. Budgeted revenues are planned unreally high to cover the desired expenditures primarily for employees. The consequences are failures of 35% on the income side in the way of non-fulfilment of the income plan. In the market economy when the manager misses this much planning he loses his trust in management and shareholders, he loses his job. The delay in local self-government in subsisting liabilities according to the Fiscal Council's data is about 10 billion dinars, with the republic's information again unconsolidated. I am now asking whether because of all this local self-government in some kind of debt and subordinated status towards the Republic of Serbia, that is why you are silent and not objecting? They don't tolerate anything, so they keep quiet and don't complain. In terms of modern European practices, there are opposite solutions that I think are worth seeing. In Denmark, income from income tax exclusively belongs to local authorities and accounts for 70% of the total income of local authorities. It is a similar situation in Sweden where income tax accounts for 70% of the revenues of the county budget distributed to municipalities. In Finland local self-government through municipal tax revenues, from their own business revenues, account for 85% of their expenditures. I think that says enough about the degree of freedom of these local self-government, it is clear which European areas of the country they come from. We like to look up to the working ethics of Scandinavian countries, don't we? A few more comments, this truly contributes to centralization, because where the money is made there, there is power. Power now focuses further on the republican level, conditions are being created for the discipline of local self-government, as the Republic will, through compensatory measures, take on itself additional information through the discretionary right to selectively and, according to the Fiscal Council, untransparently and unobstructedly decide where it will help financially. And finally, to conclude, key problems in funding local self-government, inefficient public enterprises, poor budget process, artificial inflatation of revenue sides of planned budgets, unplanned commitment and consequential pressures on the republican budget, high profit costs and low capital investment levels as consequences, these are the problems that will remain unresolved and will be deepened by the proposed coup on the local budget. I think it takes a lot more to solve these problems before money is simply transferred from local to republican level, which is equally burdened with the same problems, five times the total earnings, a similar drop in capital investment and equally inefficient public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2000	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2001	I'll be real quick. A lot of things are said here, a lot of things have nothing to do with this bill, so I don't want to answer that as a type of subsidy for Er Serbia. I don't think it works here, and in any case as far as Er Serbia is concerned, I'd say that a "bone benefit" analysis of what was obtained, what was lost, and I think we'd come to think that it was much more won for the citizens of Serbia, for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for the airport "Nikola Tesla", than it was lost, but we could also shut down JAT and disband all these people, and then we'll see what we're going to do. As far as this is concerned, it's a critical blow to local self-government budgets, seriously endangering theirs, how they're going to function. It could have been taken on the other side, on many sides of the state administration, which has already been pretty rationalized over the past two years. I'm sure you know that. I want to tell you that the estimates of the Ministry of Finance have come to me, that, compared to the planned growth in income from the profit tax and how much the local average loses, which is 2.3% that the difference is actually going to be between 0% and 2% in favour of local self-government. So they either won't lose anything compared to real numbers or some local self-government will get plus 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2002	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at the beginning of my presentation I want to thank you for being here with us all day in the NSRS today, for answering our questions and for really defending the law in the right way. We've been listening from the opposition's ranks for a lot of criticism. Criticism is fine, when criticism is constructive, when you can fix something from it in the laws of your country, then it's good, but when the criticism is there for itself, alone because of its political promotion, as if the elections hadn't ended several months ago, as if the citizens hadn't said a few months ago at the place, and I'm talking about funding local self-government, as if the citizens didn't then say who they wanted, as if the citizens hadn't given their own judgment about how some had run local self-government across Serbia and today, they're wondering how 90% of the municipalities run the SNS. I come from the Old Town municipality in Belgrade. In this municipality we have the Sports Centre "Milan Gale Muskatirović". It's a sports centre where generations of us from the Old Town of Belgrade grew up and spent time, it's been a waste for years. I'm sure you're very familiar with that, too. What I have to say today, for the sake of Serbian citizens, for the sake of the interests of Serbian citizens and for the sake of doing so, here we talked about funding local self-government, how some spent that money and how they spend today on this municipality, is that in 2014, a logo of 23,000 euros was paid. Only one company was given to graphic design by 23,000 euros. The loss of the sports centre in 2014 was more than 58 million dinars. Then someone's talking about babies, old ones, powerless ones. Let's not throw away millions of dinars in vain, so that Milan Gale Muskatirović Sports Centre does not take 50,000 euros in credit to buy votes in this municipality and finally stop with concrete real results in front of citizens and that based on these real and concrete results we are looking for support, not by buying votes. Also, the DRI found that in March 2013, Stari Grad concluded a four million contract of sixty-two thousand dinars for the service of promoting the image of the township of Stari Grad and all elected and appointed persons. Four million dinars to advance the image of the officials of a municipality. Whoever's in power in that municipality would have convicted it immediately. Whoever's officials, these or those parties, it's totally no matter, four million dinars we could have directed right at children, just for children of school age, for babies, for old ones, for those who lack much to live in. As much as some people cared about these local self-governments, and you said, people don't have water in the 21st century. Every night their water's off. My previous said, he welcomed that we have non-party ministers in the government, that's good, but he asked one question – will Minister Ana Brnabic leave this government so soon. It certainly won't leave this government quickly, I'm sure of it, as your president escaped from America without paying a million-euro tax. He won't leave the government anyway. No one's going to leave this government anyway because you want to. The government goes to the polls, when citizens say so. Finally, I have to say that, I'll repeat that from the beginning, the election has passed, gentlemen. You act like you haven't been in power in 10, 15, 20 years. It's like for those 10, 15, 20 years, you haven't had a chance to do so many great things and to have such good budgets as you had the chance. You had a chance, they were citizens of justice, you had your chance, you gambled it, you let some new people lead Serbia, run local self-government in Serbia and, of course, achieve the results that citizens expect from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2004	Right on the replica, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2005	I thank the chairman. Since DS is in power in the Old Town municipality, I know that the regimeal party is more than in pain and that it was beaten to death in the elections in that municipality. What we just heard from my colleague who spoke before me is absolutely not true. So, it's a municipality that's been punished today, by both Belgrade City and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by taking away the income by moving business space from city to city, by which they can no longer finance the needs of the citizens they've funded so far, thus disabling many programs that have existed so far. So 300 million dinars have been cut off the budget of Old Town in the last year by Belgrade City, only because the municipality of Stari Grad is run by DS. I'll just remind you of the gerento housewife. I'll remind you only of the pensioners who have been unconstitutionally reduced pensions. I'll only remind you of the computers for the most talented students. I'll only remind you of scholarships. I will remind you only of the use of the sports-recreative centre for the citizens of Old Town and I will also remind you of one more thing, which is the drowning of that municipality by the party who is in power just because it has been beaten and lost convincing elections, and DS has shown that, of course, DS not only stands well in the Old Town, but also in other municipalities, but that in these conditions, more than 32% have been achieved. The Serbian Progressive Party had something like 20%, and I think it's actually revenge for a municipality that works perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2006	Time for my colleague Bozovic. Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2007	Thank you, Your Honor. I just had to answer my word to replicate my predecessor. Well, you've won twice as many votes in those previous elections as you have on those before, and I don't know who you beat to the punch. In fact, I don't even know if you've been involved in that election at all. That election list wasn't called DS, but the guards don't know what and I don't know who. Who were you guarding the Old Town municipality from? Well, only out of your ten fingers is that community supposed to be guarded. Don't paint any more business space, so that's what hurts you. I can't have godmothers, friends, cousins, scurves going into business space to start, kidnap, gain wealth on the back and hump the citizens of Old Town. He can't do that anymore. It can no longer fly to the Maldives, and at the expense of the Old Town municipality and the creation of business space. I'm so sorry. Also, I would never give myself the right, regardless of whether he's a member of the opposition or the government tomorrow, to assess the constitutionality of something in one country, but you're legalists, apparently. In one country there are institutions and these institutions have clear powers. You're not the Constitutional Court, sir. You determine what is constitutional and what is not. What you like is constitutional, what you don't like isn't constitutional. The law is not there to please me or you, but to apply to all citizens equally. If it applies to everything equally, then there will be an opportunity to see what happens to those officials who are running that Old Town municipality today and you will see in the next election, which won't take so long, how will it be made known...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2008	Time, Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2009	... And what was in the business space and in the other businesses, which are harassing this community. Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric, from the place: Replica. He mentioned me. He also mentioned the party president and the million-dollar tax... )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2010	You didn't mention it. He didn't mention you, and the MP group and your president can only be contacted by the authorized. It is a colleague of Stevanovic or president of the parliamentary group. These are the conditions on which you can report to the replica. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2011	It's a wonderful debate. It's a wonderful debate. Facts and insinuations are also being presented, and it is a good opportunity for the public to know that both the left and right sides have fallen apart across the EU and the IMF because the local self-government system has been imposed by the EU, the IMF, the local self-government funding system has been imposed. You're very critical of each other, but you can't tell the citizens why you have to accept everything as a European standard. Now you're all mad at Mladjan Dinkic and in that attack you should know that those former coalition partners of yours are now their coalition partners again. I don't know why you're calling. In 2012, where Boris Tadic stopped Tomislav Nikolic continued and received even greater praise. Now let's see how things are. Currently guaranteed, the unguaranteed debt unit of local self-government at the date of one there at the end of June 2016 is 78.9 billion dinars. Just so you know. Serbia will owe 45 billion dinars and 75m euros during October. I'm reading all the official data so you don't bother. It is a very interesting data, says this -- local self-government units with the highest debt -- Belgrade 45.8 billion dinars, Vojvodina eight billion dinars, Novi Sad 4.5 billion dinars, Nis two billion, Kragujevac billion, Smederjevo billion, Subotic 909, Zrenjanin 835 million, Čajetina 687, Leskovac 670. What I counted is 85.2% of the total public debt unit of local self-government. It tends to keep growing. What does that look like on the head of the population? Anyone who lives in Cheetah owes 46,688 dinars. Anyone who lives in Belgrade owes 29,109 dinars and not to order further, in Svilinc it is 10,615 dinars. Every citizen in that place owes because of his local government and those people you chose. That's how they led you. It's official data from the state, these authorities. There's another very interesting piece of information. It's the IMF again. He also gave criteria on how to conduct an analysis of the credit potential of local self-government units, so the smallest credit potential is with Niška Banja, it's only 23.9 million, and then Bruce, who has 101 million, and then the largest credit potential of Novi Sad two billion 900 million dinars, Pančevo billion and 400, Pogorec billion and 400. That's how long they can still be in debt. Why am I reading this data? Very simple and simple, because when you accept the rules and the game of the IMF you bear the consequences. The consequences are agencies, the consequences are privatisations, and when it comes to local self-government just to distract you, a few years ago official policy says public utility companies should make profits at the end of the year. Please, by definition, public enterprises are not profit-making companies, but rather, they should organise the execution of those functions that represent life on a given territory and make it the cheapest for citizens. Why did you put in a profit? Because you're going to force local self-government units to be unable to provide water and sewerage in the next phase, city transport, and that it has to go into a public private partnership, and that's how we're going to get experts from abroad who know they're reading the plumbers, but the citizens won't be able to pay. You already have something similar with utility services like regional dumps. You remember a few years ago when that private foreign capital started, we don't know we're taking out garbage, and in Kovacica, in one day the garbage was taken out seven times. Look at these regional dumps, how much they cost. So that's where someone's gonna make a profit. Who's gonna make a profit? Whoever gets the concession or gets the right to do it. These here across from me, they're playing it, they're showing mathematical economy, percentages, etc., to put us to sleep, that you're arguing with each other that the municipality is going to get what more, and the main purpose is for veterinarians to sharpen local self-government, that there has to come foreign capital, that there has to come private capital, because public finances are shooting at all stitches. See for yourself what's going on. Local self-government today is financially incompetent. Since they're financially incompetent, they're powerless. The same was done in the Republic Assembly in 2004. What happened? Reward the messengers to vote all things and all things, for the younger to push through those regulations. So when Junior leaves, he shoots everything. And today, they're shooting a lot of things. You saw for yourself, the profit fund couldn't be reduced, layoff couldn't get some results. This game of 4.8 billion, so it's the same one Young Man's story of surplus and deficit. What one MP of the ruling coalition said - so this is neutral, what we take for local self-government, they will get otherwise, nothing more significant will happen. It's going to happen, there's going to be a permanent deficit. In the end, with a very nice sentence from my people at the Fiscal Council, let me tell you what fate will be. It says this - if a credible and sustainable budget process is not established, and it will not happen with us if the IMF listens to the EU, if the NATO Pact is obeyed, if everything has to be asked about the IMF, as they said - all payments go through it, its approval, local finances will continue to generate delays that undermine the liquidity of the economy sector that operates with local self-government and that will sooner or later become fiscal risk and commitment for the republican budget, which means new borrowing. In June 2012, Serbia had a public debt of 14.5 billion euros, according to the Public Debt Administration. Today, the public debt is 3,000 billion dinars, remember 3,000 billion dinars and more Serbia has no place to be in debt, but has to broadcast paper in the short and long term out of values that are most unfavourable and expensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2012	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2013	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-governments that have been a very long subject in public. I think we had a very broad public debate and that we came up with some optimal solution which on one hand respected that the views of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, of course the Serbian Government programme. I think Minister Ana Brnabic's explanation was very precise and reasoned and it's hard to say anything new about it. Of course, this topic has also been given a political connotation, and now it's a polygon for some attempt at political gain, which I think is becoming increasingly pointless. In fact, there is an increasingly common situation where the state takes something away from local self-government, as if these local self-governments were not part of the state, as if competition were each other. I think it's one system, one body, and that's the only way it can work. Also, many have calculated in different municipalities how much this reduction will now be, and then they say, well, that's ten, twenty million less investment. No one said it might be ten million less different teams or some pointless costs, which it certainly has. For example, my colleague and fellow citizen Bosko Obradovic, in the case of Cačka, commented that it was a reduction in the transfer funds of 50 million dinars, saying it was the overall budget for agriculture that would thus be threatened. However, he does not know or pretend that he does not know that the town of Cachak will carry between 200 million and 300 million surpluses next year, as was the case with this year. Of course, it's not too good, but it still says that the agriculture budget, not only will it not be threatened in the town of Cačka, but it will be significantly larger next year. Also, how pointless those claims that the state is taking something from Chačka are are I would best cite on one case. In this year only when it comes to road infrastructure, the Republic of Serbia has invested, or invested in the town of Cachak over 200 million dinars, and according to some plans, the figure will not be less than next year. When you compare those figures with the number of 50 million, as much as the transfer funds are being reduced, you can see that there is absolutely no talking about any kidnapping, that the Republic of Serbia is always there to give money when it comes to investment. There's been a lot of lies, and when the town of Nova Varosh was mentioned, I have to comment on that. Namely, "The Dvori" is increasingly euphoric that it is the first municipality in Serbia to come to power, forgetting to say the way they came to power, which is through the purchase of the council. Bosko Obradovic recently declared war on flyers, and after only a few months he joined a coalition with flyers. Serbian citizens must know that Novi Varosha "The Dvora" did not participate in the elections, did not have the courage to submit an election list. They have one committee member who was part of a group of citizens and had already arrived at the beginning to be part of certain corrupt operations, where Nova Varoš municipality gave up the right to buy Kamenolom "Bistrica" in favour of a private person suspected of having financed the purchase of these committees. So, the first time they had the chance to decide anything in this country, they had already arrived to be part of the bad decisions by citizens, part of the purchase of councilmen and trade in the election will of citizens, and guess everything in the coalition with who? Well, with DS, with whom other Bosko Obradovic can be in the coalition except with DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2014	Ambassador, put the file away. I can't hear you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2015	So, someone who's in the coalition with the DS story and is giving lectures on corruption. At the very end, I will return to the town of Cacak, since I think the town of Cacak is one of the positive examples of financial stability. So, we have a stable budget, the city's debt is only around 2% of the total budget, all public enterprises in the town of Cačka since 2013 are operating positively, the total number of public sector employees in Cačka is about 100 less than the maximum number and all this says that the town of Cačak deserves to be investment-backed by the Republic. I don't just mean infrastructure, but above all, I mean supporting local economic development and reducing unemployment. The town of Cačak since 2012 has become less unemployed every year, but it is not enough and we need a bigger step there, and I think that compared to how the city refers to money, it deserves that kind of support from the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2016	Thank you. Ivan Kostic? Can I ask, so the MP can tell me if he wants to answer or not? Ivan Kostic? He won't talk. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2017	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. So, we have been arguing here for two serious days about something that is doubtless, which is that local self-government in Serbia will have some budget for 2017 to be less by so many and so many millions, which is not disputed. A total of nearly five billion, and for each city and municipality, tens of millions. So, I guess that's what you're admitting. Does this mean that the budget of the city of Cačka, or any other municipality or city in Serbia, will be smaller? Yeah, it'll be smaller. Does this mean that these municipalities and cities will most likely resort to an increase in, say, property taxes, and thus additionally burden poor citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2018	Are you replicating a personal reminder?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2019	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2020	You're replicating a personal reference, not discussing the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2021	I'm just getting to the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2022	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2023	I've been mentioned in the context of 50 million how much Cachak will lose with this amendment and the addition of the law, and I've made it clear what it means specifically for Cachak. In particular, it means, let's say, losing the agricultural budget, which is exactly that much at this point. So where do you make up for those funds? Will the 50 million that the Republic will take from us be returned to the city of Chačka, given that such funds did not come from the Republic at all during the previous period? So it's a very simple question here -- yes, you robbed us of that money, will you give us that money back?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2024	Ambassador, I have to rule you out. You're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. You got a line, you got to discuss the law, and it's not the same. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2025	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that while a fellow member of the ruling regime spoke the folder was outside, so I didn't quite hear it until the end, but at one point he said and connected the Democratic Party to corruption, which is completely unacceptable for the simple reason that... Can you just calm them down?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2026	It's not forbidden to laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2027	If you'll just let me, this is what the party says, which in four years' time managed to unconstitutionally reduce pensions, to reduce salaries for professors, police officers, soldiers, doctors and judges, and on the other hand that savings are not half as much as the Government of the Republic of Serbia can have according to its conclusion on someone's private television in Kruševec...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2028	Ambassador, is that a defense on... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2029	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2030	So it's a defense on what was put on you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2031	That's right, I got another minute. And not only on private television in Krusevec, but on private projects and businesses owned by party members of the ruling regime. So, if you want to talk seriously about this, I'm always up for it, but it's kind of casual to bring out some complete nonsense today when 99% of the authorities are in the hands of the SNS that you're complaining about DS, it's really out of their minds. I think he's a colleague, of course, and I'd say more if I heard, since he had a folder in front of the microphone, but in any case, he'll probably learn to use the pay phone through this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2032	Thank you. Replica, Veroljub Arsic, authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2033	This previous replica was a bit of a joy to me. In 2016 alone, Serbian citizens are due to pay for interest rates on loans raised in 2009, 2010, according to the 2011 and 2012 Budget Law, 176 billion dinars. Or, to translate it into gross income, it's about 5%. About 5% of gross income is paid for the interest owed by DS and its Mirko Cvetkovic. Well, look at the Budget Law, it can't and there's no fraud. Where did that money go from all those loans? To paint business space? On a highway that was never built during your power? On Corridor 10, when you made your way through the fields, one device, the other skips over, one machine jumps over? What was that money spent on? When someone says – surplus in the budget, it exists, but you can reduce fiscal consolidation measures by as much as your gross product growth is greater or less than the interest you pay on the debt. If interest-based debts are higher, even if you don't owe the dinar, your public debt is growing. Apparently, the DS didn't know when they were in debt, but they knew that they were working with Vojvodina Development Bank, they knew that they were making Hetherland, or whatever it was called when they robbed 140 or 120 million dinars for children distracted by development, they knew that. They were given a business space to move around Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2034	Time, MP. Thank you. The word has Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2035	Thank you, President. First of all, math is an exact science, and if we're talking about the main debt, then we can see that the debt is almost ten billion more than four years ago. The heterland you keep repeating is completely in your hands. If you've been talking about Hetherland for years, don't be with those same people today in the New Vienna coalition. Am I right? It's a principled thing. The prosecution is part of state institutions, conduct an investigation, convict and then talk about people whether they stole something or didn't steal it. This is ridiculous, every time we hear about Heatherland. That's one thing. The second thing, we're talking here all the time about the law and they told you openly, and that's what I said in the opening discussion on behalf of the DS, that that's when we reached this percentage to compensate for the 40 billion that were then taken away from the local self-government. This is the fourth fiscal year, you haven't changed the law. I'm asking you to focus on that. And your representatives of the local self-government appeal to the minister and we urge the minister to come out with a new law as soon as possible and thus put an end to non-transparent spending of money from the budget and the discretionary right of the government. That's what you've all been complaining about, and we're complaining about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2036	The word is Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2037	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honored Minister with Associates, the Honorable Citizens, the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, the Proposer had in mind the specificity of such a proposal, in terms of the advantages and disadvantages of such a change. It is true that local self-government in 2017 will be denied for about 4.8 billion dinars of income on the basis of profit tax, but it is also true that public finances until just a few years ago were on the verge of an ambition from which there was no return, that the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic did not take heavy and unpopular measures. These measures aimed at halting such a wrong economic policy and returning public finances to the path of stabilisation and consolidation. The current time has shown through economic indicators, as well as in negotiations with the IMF, Serbia's progress on all international competitiveness lists, that our country is inexorably moving towards a group of countries that have an orderly and stable business environment and macroeconomic stability. Until just four years ago, the development strategy was based on the sale of state-owned assets and borrowing at extremely high interest rates, in order to settle its law on guaranteed liabilities with a reference interest rate of 17% and double-digit inflation. Popularism and demagogy in co-operation with tycoon capital were the backbone in managing public finances and managing the state. Today's employment control, a solid fiscal policy, a stable course, higher tax collection, quality incentive policy, controlled public debt growth, are instruments that helped Serbia reduce its external debt in the previous period, reprogramme expensive loans, streamline the public sector and reduce expenditure in one word, but increase revenues. The town of Leskovac, from which I come, supports the proposed amendment of the law. We are aware that we will remain deprived of about 41 million dinars of income, but we are also aware that by forming a fund, from which capital projects will be financed, the possibility of capital projects, which by local self-government, represent the building of the Shkodra on Bojana, being solved in a more rapid and efficient way. Those local self-governments that have prepared projects also have the opportunity to complete infrastructure projects that local budgets cannot finance on their own. I'm just going to take a few sentences to remind the previous speakers who talked about the town of Leskovec, and they forgot to say something. In November 2012, the SNS took responsibility in Leskovac and found a budget of over two billion dinars. That was more than 80% of the 2013 budget. Also, we inherited from the previous government several capital projects, under the assumption that they were never technically and technologically completed, but the final epilogue is of course in court. So, the first thermal water project. It's a famous well. To find out if there were thermal waters in Leskovac, Leskovci had to pay a million euros. The minister who visited Leskovac in recent weeks also assured herself. Last week, local self-government received a court ruling where the local self-government of the town of Leskovac owes NIS for such an adventure, about 50 million dinars. The second project is a photovoltaic power plant that cost the town of Leskovac 100 million dinars. It is necessary to invest, it is never finished, of course, and it is necessary to invest another 25 million dinars in order for it to work at a capacity of only 40%. There are two absurdities. The first absurd is that the previous government began to build a project like this without providing fid-in tariffs. The second absurd is, of course, a bit tragic because the previous mayor, I don't know what methods, managed to find out that the plot, the field, his uncle, was born the most sunny in the southwestern Balkans, so he sold the city's administration better to build that photovoltaic power plant. Of course, the epilogue also in court. Then, Fressine, a French firm, with 27m euros in debt to the firm, an epilogue in court, has never been paid off. It's also a debt. And finally, what we found in 2012 – a debt of 116 million dinars, "Porn Werner and Weber", a regional sanitary dump, i.e. the Austrians, which collects, transports, and dumps. In fact, the annexes of the contract brought together the previous government's political points by liberating the citizens of these third items – depositing. So the town of Leskovac, or local self-government, was supposed to pay that third item on behalf of the citizens. But what happened? Of course, she never did, the debt was piled up, and so with power, or taking responsibility, a figure of 116 million dinars awaited us, which is about a million euros. That is what the State Secretary also assured himself of when visiting, Ivan Bosnjak. However, I'm going to say a little differently what we did in fact in the previous period, of course, I won't be long. It is about new investments, i.e. new jobs. Leskovac is currently in a partnership phase with the republican government on the project to allow for the realisation of Brownfield investments and the creation of 700 new jobs by the Turkish company Jinsi, which is due to expand its capacities and employ new workers at the beginning of the year. With insistence and work in previous years and finalising negotiations of the current year, the town of Leskovac managed to negotiate with the South Korean firm Jura with the creation of a new greenfield investment with 1,000 new jobs. With this new employment this year and next, both in these two companies and in registering new companies and expanding the number of workers in the already existing one, the town of Leskovac will replace the revenues of 41 million dinars made by this amendment of the law. In the year of entrepreneurship, the city of Leskovac has singled out the funds as an incentive to open new businesses and businesses with incentives for businesses that expand their capacity for new employment. Why do I mention all this in the context of changing the law? Of course, in order to draw attention to local self-governments, which did not sit on their hands and wait, they were already active in finding new investors, but also in providing new revenues, as well as in providing better collection of existing ones. These amendments to the law provide an opportunity to provide new funding for the completion of infrastructure projects that local budgets could not finance on their own, provided, of course, that property issues, legal issues, projected and authorised. But not only that, this is also an opportunity for local self-government to deal with and dissipate, to review the necessity and justification of the existence of all expenditures, the policy of subsidies to public enterprises, the business of public enterprises themselves, but also further rationalisation of the public sector, as well as raising levels and quality of services. As far as income is concerned, it is also an opportunity to place land as a resource of local self-government in the function of growth and development, but also to revise the basic income bases, to improve payment and where the participation of original incomes in total revenues would increase participation, and all in order to increase liquidity and greater decentralisation and independence of local budgets in relation to the Republic. Once again, I would like to point out that I fully support the proposed amendment of the law because it is not in itself a goal, but is aimed at further consolidation and stabilisation finance because local budgets cannot be strong and independent if our state budget is unrealistic and in a large deficit. I'm sure with a national budget that is strong and stable and investment-defined that local budgets will also find their place in it. Of course, in voting day, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2038	The word is Radoslav Milojic, and be prepared by Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2039	Your Honor, I am grateful to you for giving you comprehensive answers to all the statements of the MPs so far, but you don't need to explain to us where the 4.8 billion you're taking are going. You need to explain to the kids, you need to explain to the pensioners, you need to explain to the parents who will be denied out-of-body insemination in the municipalities that fund it. From 2012 to 2016, the SNS left a total of local self-government without nearly 50 billion dinars, which, you will agree, is an extremely large figure for any local self-government. The decision aims to lower the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so it aims to lower the function of the local parliament or the city's assembly. What will happen to this reduction of yours that you take away money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and leave without 4.8 billion? It will happen that the presidents of the municipalities, in order to make up for that money because they cannot function without that money you take away, are likely to increase some local charges, will likely increase the property tax to make up for the same loss. Dear friends, this may be what you are doing planned to cover your deficit in the budget, to declare that the situation in Serbia is never better. But what will happen to Igor who can no longer receive from his municipality the free snack that that municipality has provided him? What happens to babies who can't get baby packages anymore? That's what we need to think about. The first level citizens address is local self-government. It is a bad decision to confiscate all money from local self-government, to place it in the register, or the government or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, because these citizens have no money to provide their children with neither lunch nor lunch, let alone reach Belgrade and Surdulica or Belgrade and Sudotica to point out their life problems they face every day. Believe me, the situation in Serbia is extremely difficult. That's why not you, but the entire government, especially the previous one and the previous one formed by the SNS, must get out of their blinded cars and jeeps, get out of their leather chairs and see that Serbian citizens don't have enough money in their wallet, don't have enough fuel in their tank and don't have enough food in the fridge. Why can't we trust you? We can't trust you because you, not you personally, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, gave Novi Pazar 60 million dinars, Krusevec, probably that Mr. Gasic could have a nice time with that wedding, 30 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2040	Ambassador, can we get something serious right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2041	To Sremska Mitrovica, 20 million dinars, Obrenovac 75 million dinars, so it's not a good system, to take away local self-government, and then, together with the Government, you assign those municipalities that are close to you politically or not close to you. I'm not accusing you of doing this because you weren't in charge of the Ministry and I hope that such bad practice will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2042	So you're accusing Cory Widowsky or what? You were looking for a replica and a minister then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2043	I'll be brief. As some armored cars were mentioned and members of the government left their cabinets, Republika Srpska Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, I don't think the only prime minister who visited a municipality called Zaguvica for Mrko Cvetkovic's cabinet existed. That was recently. He has provided funds for certain infrastructure projects, so that the municipality finally gets the way these citizens deserve after a century, which is a normal path. And when he listens to representatives of the former regime crying over local self-government, I worry about whether the space programs of local self-government are at risk by this law. So much for that. Well, they cried for sandwiches, for this stuff, etc. I think they cried the most, because they're the former regime and that's what hurts them the most. And why are we passing one of these laws? The reasons for the first law have ceased. In 2011, you provided 40 billion dinars to your municipality presidents to run an election campaign in 2012. That's why you changed the law. It wasn't about any decentralisation. I don't know why you care so much about the presidents, the municipalities, the mayors, who are the SNS moss. Maybe there's a reason, and that's that with smaller resources they'll do more than you've done with much more significant resources and no results. And when we talked about the roads in the fields, imagine what they were paying for, they were calculating the cost of maintenance of the road that's in construction, from the field to the field, and then it says where the money is? Well, you best get it back and then there's no need for pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2044	Thank you. Time. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2045	I would really like to see the MPs who led some local self-government for eight years, take care of these local self-governments for eight years, as they now care about this 2.3% reduction, about children who today have no water, which we couldn't provide and deliver to them in eight years, to 80km from Belgrade. When we talk about spent money and spending, and where it could be saved to give these citizens and some examples of local self-government, I'll tell you that Sremska Mitrovica singles out 32% of its investment budget, while Smederevska Palanka sets out 45% of the salary budget. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2046	He didn't mention you. She didn't say the name of your party, the former regime is a broad term. A broad term, the former regime in this Parliament's Assembly. So, Jesic, Ciric, Milojic, can't all be identified as former members of the same parliamentary group and report for replication. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2047	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out at the beginning of my presentation that I will also support today's legislative solutions, that is, these proposals that are on the agenda today, and I think we have heard all those arguments and reasons so far, as well as the positive effects that this law will produce in this debate, which has been going on for two days, primarily from the resolution minister, Mrs Brnabic, but also from fellow MPs by the ruling majority. However, in this debate, Madam President, we also heard about other matters. We've heard some things that have no place in this debate, we've heard some things that aren't the point of this agenda. Well, there was also criticism, very well-intentioned criticism, there were well-intentioned suggestions, there were good things, and that's what's good. What's not good is that by who knows what time some baseless accusations were heard here, there was criticism without any argument, there was a bunch of lies, from, to say some colleagues who are in a very irresponsible way, representatives, the wave of representatives of the former regime, in which they are one. And I can understand, criticism is something that can produce some positive effect. Criticism is something that can produce fruit, bring something good, but the previous speaker, the speaker who spoke before the minister, is anything but someone who has a moral and any other right to teach us some lessons today. When lessons are given to us by someone who's eaten up their local self-government, someone who's destroyed the Smederian Palanca. Someone who devastated everything that could be devastated in that community, then it's top hypocrisy to me and it's totally unacceptable. The one who left the abnormal debts. Abnormal debts in that community. The one who literally ate up that little town, who left the city without electricity and no water, as we heard. And no electricity and no water. Well, go pay for the electricity. Go pay for the electricity, the citizens of the Smederev Palanca are waiting for you to leave and pay for the electricity. Madam Chairman, I'm asking the question, who will pay the bills left during the chairmanship of Mr. Milojic. Who's gonna pay those bills? Go pay for the electricity. Well, the newspaper also wrote, Blic wrote this year that most institutions have already ruled out due to debt. Water is also excluded at the National Museum, and in the historical archives, and in the tourist organization and nothing at all. Who's gonna pay those bills? And today he's lembering here over some sad, sad fate of Smederev's Palanca. He is taking care of Smederjevska Palanka and whether this redistribution of funds provided by this law will affect it. And as he acted while at the head of the Smederevski Palanca, by spending 457 thousand dinars on liters of beer, coffee, sodas in cafes and so on, 457 thousand dinars in his favorite cafe "Atrium" in Smederevska Palanca, non-intentional without public procurement, were spent money of 457 thousand dinars, municipal money. Why? For a beer? One hundred thirty-five bottles of Tuborg beer, 143 Heinicena, 13 lemonade. Is that the job of the president of the county? Is that a concern for the funds that are being reduced now by this law? I would not like to repeat everything that previous speakers have pointed out today, all that is said in a positive sense today when it comes to the positive effects this law will produce, but it should be stressed because of the citizens of Serbia several of the most significant elements. Once again, the most important thing is that the correction of the percentage of the redistribution that this law provides is, therefore, 74% in municipalities instead of the 80% so far, 77% in cities instead of the 80% so far and the City of Belgrade, 66% instead of the 70% so far. That's the measure of fiscal consolidation. So, it's not just a matter of saving, it's a measure of fiscal consolidation. It should also be pointed out that the Fiscal Council has positively assessed that this money, therefore, will be returned to the budget by these 4.8 billion dinars that we are talking about today, and that nothing has been taken from anyone, but rather the money that will return to the budget, and after that, in particular, to transfers to local self-government, according to the project and where necessary. This is just another step in the sequence towards the ultimate goal we've established, and that's macroeconomic stabilisation. I need to mention two more key steps, which is the reform of the real sector, i.e. the reform of public enterprises, as well as the resolution of business issues in restructuring. I hope we're done by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2048	Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Please reply, I have been mentioned twice.]] The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2049	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear friends, it's interesting to hear these criticisms from those who destroyed this country in just four and a half years, who owed us 10 billion euros in just four and a half years, from those who cut our salaries, from those who cut our pensions and from those who eventually managed to shut down FAP after 63 years. You'd love a lot of things, but we'd love it if you didn't make wars that make our children suffer today, you and your coalition partners back then. Your Honor, Minister, let me remind you once again that you are no longer mistaken. After all, you've been Minister of Government for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2050	Good one, MP. Well, I've been tolerated, and I've given you some answers, even though the Smederjev Palanka is mentioned, not you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2051	For four years, I was just the president of the municipality, not eight.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2052	So, all this stuff that's been said to you, it's a burden to clear up? How about a replica? You spoke to the MP. Is he the one who did this all in the Smederian Palace? I wanted to defend you. No, you don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2053	As for Mr. Markovic, Mr. Markovic, we fought different battles. You lost yours, I'll explain how. Your party got 55%, 52, 58, 158, and you, Mr. Markovic, lost in Vrakar, while I, in my municipality, won 22% of the untrue data you're talking about, and in the next election, you'll lose the same thing, and I'll win the DS in general, because you've destroyed everything you've touched.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2054	Thank you, MP. Just don't deceive the public, there's no direct choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2055	Well, maybe there will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2056	No, maybe one day, who knows, so there's no personal loss and gain. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2057	Thank you, chairman, replica. But if a colleague wants to hear me, so, when it comes to the Vratsar and when it comes to fact, there's been a historic victory in Vratsar, a brilliant historical victory of the SNS, and I have to admit for the first time in recent history. The SNS list won. But I have to tell the previous speaker that we've never lied to anyone in the campaign, never beaten or blackmailed. So, unlike him, who is in Smederjevska Palanca was famous for the fights, for the attacks on some older citizens, so we had the opportunity to read from Branislav Petrovic, a citizen of Smederjevska Palanka, who was 63 years old, who claimed to have been hit by DS official with his hands and feet, hands and feet, a 63-year-old man, a hero, so that after that, please listen, this was very interesting, after which he beat up two of his followers who otherwise called Keni tigers. So it's Ken's tigers. Tiger, go pay for the electricity, tiger.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2058	The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2059	Thank you very much. I'd just like to draw attention...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2060	He has the right Sonja Pavlovic, like you 249, once said something. He wants a woman to hurt his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2061	I want a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2062	And about the tigers, I don't recognize anyone here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2063	The Member of the 106th speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I beg the MPs, we have talked about everything so far, we have mentioned all the former regimes. I must say, for me, the former regime and the one from 2012 and 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2064	You want to talk about the Rules of Procedure? Just don't talk about regimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2065	I said that the injured Rules of Procedure are the first position – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. This isn't a search for an analysis of former authorities, former regimes, but it's a review of the law we've been talking about for two days now, and I ask all MPs, my colleagues here, to give their exposure in that direction of water. Because if we analyze the former authorities, let's get regimes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2066	MPs, about the Rules of Procedure, don't do this the same way you say MPs shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2067	No, I'm just asking you not to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2068	Thank you very much. This was a replica. So I can't stop them from responding to each other's replication. To get back on the subject, I want it more than you do, and I expect Nenad Christmas to get his word. Here you go. The word has Goran Ciric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2069	The Rules of Procedure of the Member of 107 who says - a speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and the session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's Parliament to another MP. We have seen this from a folk MP who spoke to Ambassador Milojičić threatening messages – go pay the electricity, go there, go here, with a theme that really is not worthy of what we should do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2070	Will you speak to me, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2071	So, reading, and you presidents really have to react if we are here listening to the debate on the law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, calling on how important it is for the citizens of Serbia, and to listen to the names of cards, wine cards in some cafes, the way the MP from Vrakar addressed, which, of course, needs to worry...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2072	Will you, Mr. Kiric, now that you're saying we can't speak to you personally, speak to me? Would you be so kind?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2073	I told you. So it is obvious that we were all witnesses, and you also say if you think that the MP spoke about the subject of the agenda, did he personally address the other MP and did he violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? I think so. Here, and I expect from you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2074	He can't break the Rules of Procedure, I can break the Rules of Procedure. I didn't warn Milojičić when he mentioned the false allegations that someone was paying for someone's wedding, so then I had no right to tell another MP not to read the wine card. So, accept, if I have arches to one, I have to do the same thing to the other. Don't just hear one side. You heard about the wedding. There's wine with the wedding. If you want, we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, although indeed the chairman of the word one didn't say. I wasn't talking about weddings or wine. Whatever you want. Now we're going to have a serious debate, get back on the subject. The word is Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2075	Thank you. Let's continue the final debate on the subject, and that's the law. I would like first to welcome the position expressed by the minister here, that Serbia should finally begin and repay the debts. As you know, in the last eight years, we are constantly in debt somewhere on average about two billion a year. It's time for this practice to stop first, and then to start paying back our debts so that we don't leave our descendants with debts and one undeveloped state and an undeveloped society. In the light of the law, it is given that this is one measure of fiscal consolidation. I wonder if the government may have thought about some other measures, since this is about a figure of approximately 40 euros? Here, let's say we make a parallel that, let's say, one subsidy for a foreign investor to come here to a town near Belgrade will be perhaps more than half of that amount that will be taken in some way by all the local self-governments in Serbia. Just to remind myself that Serbia's budget is set aside for subsidies, where foreign investors or domestic investors subsidise with a figure that is several dozen times larger than this figure that needs to consolidate the budget, so I wonder if you might have thought about shortening at least those subsidies a little bit, if you have no intention of abolishing them already? What else we could discuss the same, which could be the same measure, to be, to say constructive, is, for example, Have you thought about whether this rationalization is really over, as you said, in the public sector? It is, of course, not just about the downsizing of employees. First of all, it concerns me, at least that I understand that we need to have an efficient public sector, both the public sector for which the Republic is responsible and the public sector for which local self-government is responsible, and that is all in your ministry. I wonder if you might have thought about asking questions, whether we really don't have any extra employees, since we know one offensive opinion, and we all know that the public sector is actually a slave to all the ruling parties, who have always filled the public sector with their own staff. For example, the most banal example can be seen with us, that the largest three companies we have in Serbia, which are EPS, ESM and Mail are managed by personnel who do not even have the legally satisfied professional equipment to run. So that's just one banal example of it. There's probably a siatset in various, from lower executives to ordinary perpetrators. Let's think about whether it might be a way of doing some rationalization in the public sector, so that maybe we save some money here, so that we don't have to do it by depriving local self-government, because it's certainly going to cause some measure of theirs that will mean an increase or a burden on the economy or the citizens. Is such a situation convenient for an investment, anyone? And not to talk about big investors all the time. Let's also talk about small investors, those who start some small companies, that expand some of their small businesses, etc., will that be appropriate for them, will they have a comfort in these local self-governments to do so? I would like to say one more thing, we have been presented here almost, and at some press conference, the Prime Minister announced that salaries in Serbia will rise in one year and a half, that the average salary will be around 500 euros. The current average salary for August is 365 euros, according to statistics. It's a very significant increase. Now imagine, if you've already planned something like that, I don't think there's any need to redistribute these revenues. So, that alone by increasing wages, since this is about income tax, would probably be enough to fill that gap and contribute to the consolidation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2076	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2077	We've been talking for two whole days, and we're back to square one again. It's not about the consolidation of the budget, it's about balancing something that changed in 2011. So it's not about that, it's about you getting this back into some balance. As for subsidies to foreign investors, that's a good example when you say how much you take from local self-government. When you grant subsidies to foreign investors, and at the moment Serbia is struggling with many other countries in the region for these foreign investors, while we are working in parallel to strengthening entrepreneurship and the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. At this point, you need to grant subsidies to foreign investors to come, until you make a completely predictable environment, which is what this government is trying to make, and we've talked about it in the last two days. You have to bring these investors in to hire these people. When you give subsidies to a foreign investor that he comes to Serbia and opens his plant in some local self-government and hires some people in that local self-government, then the subsidy is directly returned to the budget and local self-government through income tax, and that's what we do. Thank you very much. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How did they write off taxes and contributions? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2078	Don't answer, this is informal. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2079	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government has caused a lot of controversy in the past months and in the past two days, especially since the original proposal was much more drastic than the one that is before us today. Of course, I'm not happy that the country is even in a position to reach for this measure, but in a situation where the state faces both difficulties and challenges, we all have to be aware that we have to endure some of the burden. What is commendable and what I have followed over the past is exactly the process that preceded the formulation of this proposal, which is the process of the discussion, the process of submitting the proposal, the criticism, the suggestion and which has just led to one balanced process and this constructive dialogue between the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance, on the one hand, and the representatives of local self-government, on the other hand, led to the text of a law that represents a compromise between what was the request of the IMF and what was proposed by representatives of the permanent conference of cities and municipalities and NAED. With an understanding of the challenges and difficulties facing local self-government, a compromise and acceptable solution is being proposed to reduce municipalities from 80 to 74%, i.e. for cities 77%. What I would also point out is a development measure that is announced and envisions the possibility of transferring funds from a republican level to a local level, and that means that those local self-governments that have developmental, i.e. capital projects can count on funds. So there are opportunities to increase dedicated transfers. In the municipality of Triestenik, from which I come, something similar is already being realized. Construction of a master road through Topanja, worth 120 million dinars, is under way, of course, funded by the Republic of Serbia, and is of great importance to the people of Tristenik municipality. Also, 70 million dinars are planned to build a circular current next year, also with the Republic's funds. Not to mention the other projects that have been funded over the past few months, the 15 million-dollar ice skating, the recovery of three schools of 30 million, and all of this with the funds of the Public Investment Management Office, further resolution of hall sports, the transitional crossings, so it's all extremely important for municipalities, such as the Tristenik municipality. Also, local self-government will continue to be motivated to invest in the economy, help entrepreneurs and invest in their local economic development, because that is exactly where they will increase their budgets. I am saying this because I would like to give an example from the municipality of Trstenik, where the workers of the factory "First Five-year-old" organized themselves, invested equal stakes, parts of their severances, each 500 euros invested to organize and rent the facilities and equipment of the factory and continue production without a single day's interruption. After years of collapse, the factory for the first time regularly reconciles all its obligations both to the state and to the workers. So they regularly pay full taxes and contributions and at this point employ 900 workers, which is extremely important for our municipality. So last month alone, 15 million dinars amounted to what belonged to the state, so taxes, and it's easy to calculate how much of that remains for the municipality. I must point out once again that in recent years the First Five-year-old has been receiving subsidies, while doing negative business and coming from 17,000 workers to 1,700. Today, it employs 900 workers and regularly reconciles taxes and contributions. So he's doing business on his own, without any help from the state, which means that changes are possible. A positive example is also the dedicated industry in Triestenik, which operates on its own, regularly pays and settles all its obligations both to workers and to the state and buys new machines from its own resources. When it comes to savings in the local budget, which I would like to point out, every leadership that is willing to act domestically, responsibly and thoughtfully must realistically, honestly, look at its expenditures and decide which ones are unnecessary and inadmissible. It is unacceptable for the municipality of Triestenik to build roads without invoices, it is unacceptable to finance marketing agencies, for repairs of municipal vehicles to be made at triple the value of those vehicles. I have a concrete example where the repair of popular Stoyadin paid 120,000 dinars. I don't particularly understand myself in cars, but it seems to me that it far exceeds the value of the vehicle itself that is owned by the municipal administration. With all this in mind, in voting day I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2080	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2081	Thank you very much. For the second day, we are discussing the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, and I guess we are all aware that with this proposed solution, no local self-government will be in a better financial situation than it has ever been. Secondly, we understand that there will certainly be no reduction in salaries for officials in local self-government because they have already been reduced once. Therefore, the biggest loser on the basis of this reduction is agriculture, as first local self-government will opt to fuck local agricultural development funds. I want to ask you, Madam Minister, could there have been another solution to secure these, orientatively, five billion dinars needed to balance the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as you say? The first proposal, if 50% of the income on the basis of the income tax on employees in the republican administration in Belgrade and the Paris-based republican institutions, agencies, funds, etc. and the same number of employees in the province's administration in Novi Sad, would certainly make you more money than those five billion. Come on, that 50%...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2082	Excuse me, please bring an end to the discussion. The time that belongs to your parliamentary group for this debate is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2083	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2084	Thank you. We're moving on. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2085	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the Municipality of Priboj from where I wish to convey to the Honorable Minister that we have no problems with this law. You have great support from Priboj, from an undeveloped municipality but from a municipality that understands why such a law is needed from the municipality, which this law does not consider to be anything you take from us, but a chance that through development projects we can get a lot more funding than you're conditionalally taking from us. The Municipality of Priboj and its giant "Fap" as just said are still there. "Fap" has not been shut down even though some would like it to be so, to make it easier to accuse the ruling furniture. I'm curious how they solved the Fapa problem, those who just said "Fap" was shut down? They solved it by systematically building a social institution from 2000 to 2012. They solved it by treating a serious illness with tranquilizers called subsidies. They solved it by thinking it would never end these subsidies. You know how, subsidies and this economic problem can sometimes be reduced, when necessary for some discussion, to a very simple explanation. And subsidies like those 200 beers act like there's a lot of them, but they spend time and the day comes when you see it's gone. After 12 years, we woke up from that rebellion that was driven away by these gentlemen who said that "Fap" had been shut down behind us were three overnight technological revolutions, and in front of us an empty register. I can only thank the DS gentlemen for not privatizing the "Fap" because God forbid they are what they used to do, I would be representing the local community here today, not the Priboj municipality. What I would like to point out is that "Fap" is in the UPPR phase, that by redefining the debtorial trust relations, we will preserve the legal subjectivity of "Fapa". We're preparing it for the dedicated industry, and parallel to a new attempt at privatisation. The one where the Priboj municipality prepares development projects. The project we expect your support is related to the free zone of Priboj, which was formed thanks to the government's support and where we expect the first side of the company, the Spanish company Refisa, to start production, with 100 people working at the end of next year. Let's go to the town hall next door to Nova Varosh. You mentioned the municipality of Nova Varosh as a good example, an example of good practice. Yesterday, however, the meeting of the municipalities of Nova Varosh was also mentioned in a very negative context. There have been brutal accusations and lies, so I'd like to talk to you about it, because I think it's very important. Mr. Obradovic, who presented these truths, was on his way to Nova Varoša where he held joint press conferences with the gentleman from DS, his coalition partners, only before Kokino Brod was supposed to turn right on one turn, which actually leads to Sinjišti, which actually leads to that village where Minister Nikola Selaković came from, and from there is this road that was made, that mile and a half along the road leads to the beautiful Radoin Lake, which everyone should visit. Now, I don't know how to mark the place where Nikola Selakovic's house is and how far the asphalt should approach and which rule should be regulated. They'd probably regulate that if they came to power, as far as the asphalt should go when it comes to the house of some SNS official. So only in last year's municipality of Nova Varosh was paved 40km of travel infrastructure. If that mile has belonged to Siništi, a beautiful place with beautiful people where there are about 200, imagine the 38.5 kilometers that have been paved in the rest of Nova Varosha, how much more powerful these officials are than Nikola Selakovic and more influential when Nikola Siništi was only a mile away. Perhaps it should be noted that after 2012 and the takeover of power in Nova Varoša, where SNS with Dimitri Paunovic went into absolute reorganisation in every respect of the municipality of Nova Varoš, it needs one very important segment, it is tourism. The municipality of Nova Varoš is extremely dependent on tourism. Finally with the rule of DS, 2012, 2,500 overnight stays were recorded in the municipality of Nova Varoš, which is catastrophic. After that, in 2015 with the work of SNS and Dimitri Paunović, he had 45,000 nights in the municipality of Nova Varoš in 2015. With so many nights, more specifically sleeping tourists in the municipality of Nova Varosh she woke up. We have a Panoram hotel, we have two more hotels that were built right after that, we have a ski resort set up. After the overthrow of the SNS-led government under very strange circumstances, which we can also talk a lot about, the funds found at the expense of the municipality of Nova Varosh were 60 million dinars. The funds that were to be withdrawn from various donor funds amounted to 75 million dinars. It's all under a big question right now. You want to talk about how the takeover took place in Nova Varosha? Under very strange circumstances, by buying a councilman, but I'm only going to talk about a political offer for that councilman, who has moved to the other side, and thus has been overthrown by the SNS authorities in Nova Varosha. There was an interesting store around the place in the council, you know. Whether that board goes bigger or her husband does, if she doesn't go, then he will, and she will go somewhere else. So, Mr. Obradovic supports a system that treats the municipal council as a wedding for the first neighbor, it's time for someone to leave the house, whether the husband or wife is completely irrelevant, it's important for someone to leave. Such a bigger one now needs to work on some development project. We have another very interesting thing in the municipality of Nova Varosh. Most of the current management in Novi Varoša supported the purchase of quarrys, an extremely important project in the municipality of Nova Varoš. What happened to that? After this reconstruction of the strange government in the municipality of Nova Varoš after 20 days gave up buying that quarry. Why? You know how, I can understand when you mark people that they're members of the SNS, when it's necessary to know how much asphalt can come home if someone's a member of the SNS, mark a man, I don't find it controversial who he comes from. But to mark the stone that he had with the SNS, that's so slightly problematic. He must have seen the quarry with the SNS people, so there's something safe about it. Maybe Dimitrije Paunovic was wrong to touch the company's katance in bankruptcy that he inherited in the municipality of Nova Varoš, which is the result of privatisations made by the current coalition of Mr Obradovic. After their privatisations, they left more katans in Serbia than the katans have on the bridge of love in Paris that connects the two shores of the Sena River, probably out of love for Serbia, only when they put these locks in them they probably thought of a desire to be good to them and not to the people. We have a lot more to talk about. I don't want to take up time, but those kind of accusations to be made for...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2086	Ambassador, please return to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2087	I want the president. I'm done. A municipality that is an example of good practice has been attacked.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2088	It's all right. I understand everything, but just get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2089	I'm done with this. It's an honor to always be on the side of 45,000 nights. I am honored to always be on the side of those who see around the Hotel "Panorama" children's castle, children's joy and a large number of tourists. It's an honor to be on the side of those who take off the locks that others put on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2090	Before I give my word to Bosko Obradovic, I'll just read one letter, which I've received, and it's about our agenda. I'll tell you now. I am obliged because it is a representative of one of the municipalities – "Respected Presidents, during today's debate on the reduction of funds to local self-government, there has been misinformation by some MPs in connection with the accident that took place, where two young human lives in Alexandrovac were lost by lightning strikes. As an argument, false information was used that some media reported that two girls were killed by lightning strikes because there were no thunderstorm installations on the surrounding facilities, and above all at the hall of sports in Alexandrovac. I would like to inform you that there are correct thunderstorm installations on the surrounding facilities, so this accident should not be misused for political purposes, and I ask you to inform all MPs about it for the sake of the truth. Dr. Jugoslav Stajkovac, President of the Municipality of Aleksandrovac." I am obliged to read because there has really been a tragic event and should be measured in our political accounts and not use these things because of the families of the dead girls. It doesn't have to remain a stain on our work. Please refrain from political qualifications when it comes to tragic cases. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2091	Thank you. I wouldn't waste time on one of the biggest false pre-election promises by the SNS, and that's undoubtedly FAP and it's just one of the nice pictures of what's left of the SNS in its pre-election promises. None of those Finns who were supposed to solve that FAP problem. As far as buying a councilman, when the SNS is talking to you about buying a councilman, I can only smile because you bought half of Serbia and there are so many flyers in the SNS line that you simply shouldn't really mention the subject, because you are, as it is said, the biggest traders to the council in this country. What is most important and what hurts you most is that the SNS authorities in a municipality in Serbia, Novi Varosha, have fallen from power and that is now a potential infection that can now be spread further. The second thing that this fall from power is revealed is all your affairs and all the corruption that was in Novi Varoša during the four years of the SNS government, so to speak – a cableman in which three million euros of republican and local money were invested was given to a private person for 15 years for a single dinar. It is a picture of Dimitri Paunovic and corruption in the SNS ranks. The "Panorama" hotel, which was also accidentally spent money from the local budget, has been practically renovated and reconstructed to a private face. So it's time to talk about corruption in the SNS and it's time to see if this corruption has protection at the highest level of SNS. If you're fighting corruption, gentlemen, go ahead and clear out of your ranks. Nova Varosh is a real example, and I understand why you're afraid of Nova Varoshi, because there's a message sent to everyone that it can fall from the power of the SNS and this is the beginning of the New Varoshi.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2092	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2093	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as SNS authorities in Novi Varoša fell, this was explained by my distinguished colleague, Mr Krsto Janjusevic, by the fact that there was a trade in parliamentary mandates, which is not a rare case in Serbia. So, Mr. Obradich, there's nothing to brag about. There is no municipality in Serbia and there is no city in Serbia where you are legally in power. So nowhere in Serbia did the people choose you in the 24 April elections. As for FAP, it is true that Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government tried to solve the FAP problem, that talks were held with the Finnish company. The Finns gave up, but it's not the RS government's fault and it's not the fault of any of us. Unlike you, we certainly try to solve problems. Some do, some don't. What did you do in the election campaign? Do you remember what you were doing in Vlad's Han? Aleksandar Vukic attended the opening of the Turkish company Teklas in Vladic's Han. You came to Vladic's Han the next day, took pictures in front of that company and said – here's an example of how it shouldn't be done. This company shouldn't have come here. This company needs to collapse because it's a foreign investor. It doesn't matter what 150 or 200 people do here. It doesn't matter that we're going to resuscitate southern Serbia, but this company needs to be closed. That was the economic policy you offered the citizens of Serbia, and as you entered this parliament and with the help of whose all power, you, Mr. Obradovic, knew very well. When you need DS as in Nova Varosha, when you need DS to enter parliament, then you have nothing against them. Let me tell you one more thing. You don't have anything against the LGBT population either. When they waved their flags at this rally in front of the Parliament of the King of Milan, they were good to you. So when something suits you at a given moment, then it's great, and when you don't like it, then you're for the family, then you're for LGBT. All in all, it's very clear what you've done in Nova Varosha. You have done nothing positive, and other than Nova Varosha, give me another municipality or city in Serbia in which you are legally in power and where the people chose you on 24 April 2016. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2094	I was informed by Vice-President Milicevic that Bosko Obradovic has the right to reply, and you do not have the right to reply. (Goran Jesic, from the place: He mentioned DS. I'll give you a replica. I'm fenced. I didn't hear. Are you authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2095	Authorised promoter. As soon as you're gone, you're out of control here, so we're talking about topics that aren't the subject of the agenda. So I'm asking you to stay here as long as possible, honestly. Second thing, I congratulate you on the great results in Priboj. If that's really the situation, I'm thrilled. I heard yesterday that the best way to live in Serbia is by my neighbor, my colleague, Happy, if so, in Priboj is a phenomenal situation. Sir and dear colleague, the technological revolution was missed in the '90s. In 2000, when responsibility has been taken over, first I have to draw that line, no one kidnaps municipalities, no one conquers municipalities, no one conquers the Republic or the Government, assumes responsibility, on behalf of the citizens, politics is conducted. At this point, you took the responsibility to run politics, but we lost 10 years and several technological revolutions in that FAP. I sincerely want every investment to succeed in Serbia, as well as Sisal, or who the negotiator is, and I know how difficult it is, but I am asking you not to accuse those who are not responsible, but some others who are sitting, but you were probably very young at that time, sitting in your party and representing your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2096	No more replicas. The word has a people's letter, lovely Mihajlovska. Let's keep working. We can do this all day. Lovely Mihaylovska you don't want?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2097	I will. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, respected citizens and citizens, not so long ago we heard about how our citizens are lazy, for two days we have heard that representatives of local self-government are not doing their job well with the presidents of municipalities, which is paradoxical somewhere for me, given the fact that most of the municipalities are in the structures in which SNS representatives are being decided, but thank you for publicly acknowledging that you simply do not have professional staff to work in local self-government units, and you said the minister would better control the work in local self-governments. Tomorrow, we may be accusing doctors or healthcare professionals of not functioning a good health care system or educational workers, parents, children that our education system is not working because of them, but we haven't heard anything about the responsibility of the state system, the state operating system, which is very often broken down, which is being restarted from time to time by new elections, after which we install new programmes, mostly some pirate versions, and this new-old operating state system stops working in an adequate way again and then resorts to measures, among which one of which today you propose this law, and all the measures most that the state operating system brings to the most are affected and always the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the most endangered ones. It also seems to me, in part, that the IMF required it. Since, as far as we know, the IMF is interested in how we will repay the debts we have, but they don't care much where we find the money to repay those debts and there are many other ways where the funds can be saved. For example, we had a situation where the city government abolished scholarships, the city government of the City of Belgrade, scholarships for students with disabilities, so it returned them right before the 2016 parliamentary elections. What I'm interested in, Mrs. Brnabic, you said you would try to keep the most important social protection services from being eliminated, but I don't understand how you're going to determine what the most important services are, since, to speak out, every one of my torments is the biggest. I ask you a question on behalf of the families of people with disabilities, can you on behalf of the Government guarantee that no social and health care services related above all to this population and other vulnerable groups will be abolished by reducing your budgets to units of local self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2098	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2099	Thank you. I'm really sorry about the citizens of Serbia for going round and round and round and round for two days, but good. If I have to, for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for all the local self-governments that are doing great, to repeat seven times, eight times, I will repeat seven times, eight times, ten times. So, I've been trying for two days to give concrete examples of local self-government that are fantastic and it's possible that you missed it, but I'll say it one more time. When you say we've been talking here for two days that local self-government isn't working well and they're not professional, I'll tell you again the preparations I mentioned. The purpose of 22 workers less than permitted employees, the collection of income over 95%, 17% only single out for salaries, every honor, and a devastated municipality, thank you. Nova Varoš has allocated one third of the budget in the last three years for capital expenditure, in 2015 the municipality allocated 40% for investments, Sremska Mitrovica 32% of investment investments, Pirot all public enterprises liquid, all operate in profitable, health and pharmacy with which other local self-government often have problems liquid and operate normally. Paracin 25% less employees than allowed, paid off all the debts of the home health that were inherited, there could be paid off debts. Belgrade has centralised public procurement, saving 1.2 billion dinars over the past two years. We can continue with local self-government, but I want to tell you that there are local self-governments and that I'm here to say that there are fantastic local self-governments and that, I think, is one of my key messages for these last 48 hours. If you had listened to me, it would not have been correct to say that we here say that local self-government representatives are not doing their job, because some local self-governments are doing business and much better than the state administration is doing and they started professionalising before the state administration started and they will know how to carry this burden, which is a burden borne by all Serbian citizens because of Serbia's macroeconomic stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2100	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2101	President-in-Office, Madam Minister with Associates, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to begin by congratulating, on behalf of and on behalf of the Members of the SNS, all the educators, the International Teacher's Day, with the desire to continue to use all their intellectual capacities for the most beautiful work on earth, education and education of our children and students. Let them be guided by the thought of the great Swiss pedagogue, Pestarloci, who said: “The enthusiasm that I will be able to move my hands has given me so much strength that I can climb the highest Alps, just so I can begin, ” finished the quote. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. This bill has its basis in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us, MPs, and citizens of Serbia on 9 August 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the MPs, that the exposés of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic are the most precise, most concrete, the largest, shortened version of 260 pages, and the best of all 73 previous exposés of the Serbian Prime Minister, starting with the first Prime Minister of Modern Serbia Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today, counting on the previous exposés of President Vukic since 27 April 2014. On page 20, a shortened version of the government's exposé, referring to the country's macroeconomic stability, he also said, quote: "We will adopt a new law on funding local self-government with the aim of improving the system of financing local self-government and removing existing imbalances between the central and local levels of government," the quote concluded. Here's the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, gentlemen, on the benches, we're discussing it today. What do I mean by that? This is how our Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, does so, by a system rarely seen in political culture, only a successful system, and that is the system - written and done. Here, it's been two months, which is said to have been written in the exposé today, as you can see, done. It is a great thing that the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government has taken place, because the existing rule of the former regime in 2011 is inadequate, inadequate, incomplete and does not contribute sufficiently to fiscal consolidation, does not contribute to a sufficient total reduction in the fiscal deficit and does not contribute sufficiently to the preservation of macroeconomic stability, which is the basis on which the reform for which we progressors have been defined. That's why this draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, we're actually removing the vertical imbalance that was created in 2011. Members of the People's Parliament, a national MP in the party's midday debate of the former regime, and he was also prime minister, was also federal interior minister, said it is not good that the government is working to reduce deficits and create surpluses. I'm shocked by this statement. Let me say, however, that the biggest success of the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 is that it created such an economic environment that Serbia's total economy ended a series of non-profits and ended up with a net profit of 144 billion dinars and ended with 133 billion losses in 2014. So when we add each other together, that's 277 billion. That under foreign direct investment one of the five most attractive countries in the European industry and by the number of jobs from foreign direct investment in 2015 we achieved employment 108%, therefore, twice as much as in 2014. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are, in fact, harmonising with this law the redistribution of incomes made on the basis of the income tax between units of local self-government and the level of the Republic of Serbia. I won't say why, today we've heard more or less the reasons why it is. However, according to the 2011 law, 80% of income from profit tax belonged to local self-government. What's important is that this model has found no basis in modern fiscal practice. That's important, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Modern fiscal practice recommends that the profit tax is dominantly central to the government, not the locale. We had in the previous period what we had, and that led to, so to express that our citizens understood, to rob our country. So, when debt was discussed today, we did not inherit 19.5 billion debt, as someone said, but 60, plus 40 of those that evaporated from private privatisation, according to some EU commissions, I recently read the data. It was the former regime's measures in 2011 that led to a disproportionate relationship between the commitments and the corresponding revenues of the central and local levels, and that was the problem. By adopting this draft law amending the 2011 law, we are in fact removing the vertical imbalance that was created then in 2011. Gentlemen, the MPs, by returning four billion and 800 million dinars from the local level to the central level of government, we are implementing one of the measures of fiscal consolidation, which we have heard today that our political opponents are not in favour of, in order to reduce the fiscal deficit and preserve the country's macroeconomic stability, and this contributes to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which we are keenly advocated and implemented, not only is our Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, all of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, most of the national MPs in this high house and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would say plebiscitarianly assisted by the president of the state. In the end, gentlemen of the former regime, you transfer to us that we have destroyed Serbia's economy. You're transferring what you've done. You have destroyed our past, our present, the future of our children. If you had only stayed in power for a year, we would have destroyed our roots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2102	On the list of the last pay phone, Natasa Micic. Here you go, Natasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the basis of the debate so far, it could be concluded that we have reached a consensus that the 2011 Law on the financing of local administration alone was actually bad. But what's more important than that is that we draw some lessons and conclusions. This debate can actually show us what state the state is in, how the government works, but ultimately it speaks a lot of things about us MPs. After five years of suffering damage, the state has suffered damage, and the price for this damage has been paid by all of us citizens, today the government has come before us with an amendment that consists of only one member that refers to the redistribution of income tax with local self-government at the republican level. This says enough, therefore, that one member in response to the five - year suffering of damages and the disastrous law clearly says that it is only a bridge. So, about a mere override. That's what it indicates is that actually the government and it only works by that principle, which is either a override or another way, which is to hide the problem, or to close our eyes to the problems we face. As for us MPs, it should also be said that everyone who criticised the 2011 law did so by the ruling majority, that a good part of the ruling majority today sits and supports this majority, and then voted in favour of the 2011 law without any responsibility. Also a good part of the opposition. We were against the adoption of that law and then we said that it would not lead to even more modern and more efficient self-government, that it would not increase capital investment and would do damage at the republican level. However, we were the opposition party and, of course, there was no understanding of our understanding and our views, but today I will remind everyone who is calling for the Fiscal Council, that then the Fiscal Council also warned of possible consequences. What is also important for us from the LDP, of course, we advocate decentralisation, and it should be decentralisation of jurisdiction, so powers and responsibilities and financial decentralisation. That's what we talked about when we passed this bad law. So one can't do without the other. I hope the new law will have some respect for that, and, Minister, I ask you to look at everything we've been saying, there may be something useful to you for that draft of a new law. I don't agree, I'm not an optimist like you, that local self-government will make up for it by fighting the gray economy or by redecorating the property databases, nor will this new law on fees and taxes also solve it because these are all individual steps and these are all still overrides, so we need essential reforms, we need to change the tax system. The tax administration is one of the weakest links in this country because solutions are made on an arbitrary basis, dragon penalties, absolutely local self-government resort to some ways to achieve the greatest income from property tax, such as the increase in the first zone, then, they are deafened about the obligation to publish the depreciation rate in order to be fairly cut off property taxes, not that some owners of buildings 50-60 years old pay the same tax price as the owners who have facilities in new construction pay. Of course, above all, it's important to control, it's important to reduce unnecessary costs, party employment, and only all of it, all of these measures together can only produce results, and we're absolutely not going anywhere like this in a partial, casual manner. I therefore hope that this new law on local self-government and the financing of local self-government will offer better solutions. We are certainly about for decentralisation to be implemented as best and as righteous as possible. I would also mention that this atmosphere of rival relations between local and central revenues should not be created, that it is also co-ordinated between these two levels, because only together and the local and republican levels in the agreement can achieve some results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2104	Thank you very much. Since there are no more entries on the lists for the word, according to article 96, does anyone want to exercise their right? The word is Vojislav Seselj. Would you like to go first, even though it's a larger parliamentary group? I have to ask correctly, you were the first to press, but then these smaller groups came forward. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2105	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk a little bit about this bill. We listened to everything and everything, but there was little talk about the bill. First, I must present a surprise that such a law represents on behalf of the Government the Minister of State and local self-government. I would expect the Minister of Local Self-Government to protect the interests of local self-government in Serbia, not to represent a law that deprives certain rights of local self-government or at least the possibility of exercising its competence. Without enough money, jurisdiction cannot be fulfilled. So, since you're probably inexperienced in this parliamentary policy, maybe someone gave it to you on purpose to represent you because you won't encounter so much aggression by the opposition as someone else would in that place. But here you are, in that position, I understand you and my criticism is not directed to you personally, but to the text of the law. What's the main problem is, we have an explanation in front of us on the full five densely typed sides, and we don't see anything from the explanation. We absolutely don't see anything from the explanation. It is said to be a law that corrects the vertical fiscal imbalance between the central and local levels of government. I guess someone first found out that there was this imbalance, and they had to explain to us what this imbalance is all about. We didn't see that here. When it comes to vertical imbalances, then there's somewhere missing, and there's a surplus here or where there's no place to fill a hole, so there's a certain amount of money being taken away, so there's a certain balance. The question is, seriously, whether this is the measure that needs to be rebalanced. Can we do that without budget rebalances? Maybe he can, but you should think about it a little more seriously. When the initiator of this law has not explained what the imbalance is, he does not explain to us what the money will be spent on, and we should know. Maybe this money will help reduce the budget deficit already projected by the Budget Law, so the budget will be smaller by 4.8 billion, let's say 5 billion, to round up, and the deficit will be automatically smaller by 5 billion, which is a percent higher than the total budget items. That's one possibility. The second option is to achieve an apparent budget surplus. The prime minister has repeatedly provided us with information that we are achieving an ever-increasing budget surplus. I didn't find any explanation or information on whether it relates to a budget that already contained a deficit, so compared to that deficit, there's a certain surplus, but that main deficit remains, or we completely eliminated that deficit, at least for these months where the surplus appears. That's absolutely not clear. I don't think you can talk about surpluses as long as there's this general deficit in terms of the total budget, and we're talking about the July surplus, August, September, etc. It wasn't too much, as far as I know about economic theory. Now, I wouldn't mind saving here and liquidating the deficit in general, however, obviously this won't go to liquidation. The question arises – where did the surplus come from? Was it just a tax charge that was better or a taxi, so it was full of budgets or privatisation, and some factory sold well, so the money went into the budget? Or is it something else, that in those months simply the government did not meet all its budget commitments? I have data that a large number of budget users have not received the money that follows it under the Budget Law. Or he got less or much less etc. If it's based on what happened to the surplus, then it's not convincing at all, it's not about the surplus. When you make a full account of the government's income in one month and legal obligations, if you meet all legal obligations and there's a difference, that's a real surplus. And here I could list a lot of budget users who didn't get what was coming from the budget. Of course, we can't know if there were any surpluses at all for months until we get the final budget bill. Ever since I went on the official trip, 14 years ago, no government here has submitted a final budget report, 14 years, people, you slept, you didn't think to look. Well, I'd grab a neck here, I'd ask. The final budget report is much more important to you than next year's budget proposal, because next year's budget proposal is one vision. What could be or what would be desirable if all plans were fulfilled? But the budget law must be adopted regularly every year at the latest in January of the month. We used to have that until October 5th, even for 2001 and 2002, it seems to me that we did, after which we never had any more. Here, I suggest in time this year we'll have to have it. We won't have anywhere else to move until we get it. Why am I still here to complain that the explanation isn't good? It says here what is not covered by the law instead of explaining what is covered? Well, it is said that legislative changes do not touch the problems of horizontal imbalances between individual and local self-government, and that is the real problem for us that there is no balance there. Your predecessors in this ministerial position have done nothing. How is this horizontal balance achieved? By first we have to do an adequate model of funding for local self-government, so we have to determine the elements, the number of inhabitants, the degree of development, the size of the territory, the natural wealth of the territory, etc., a few more elements. Well, on that basis, that and that local self-government should have as many employees as possible. Well, so many employees get an item from the budget relating to employees' salaries. Well, if there are more employees, then the salaries will be lower on average, if less are allowed to have more wages. So, that its self-government right should be to decide independently in the context of the given sum on the distribution, but we have also given the earlier laws that local self-governments, by deciding on budget items for the love of higher salaries, fully abolish the financing of some very important actions. It was startling to me when you said here that there are some municipalities where there's a lot more money going to fund NGOs than health needs. Guys, what kind of country do we live in? Here, you know, and I didn't know until today. Come on, take care of it tonight. Take care of it tonight, it can't. Furthermore, we have after the adoption of the law on the abolition of the state's right to public media other than the state television they called Public Service to cover our eyes, and in fact it is now alienated television from both the state and the regime, let alone from us citizens, let alone the opposition from us. Some local self-governments finance media that have nothing to do with the local self-government. We have a community in the interior that shows up for competition today and gets serious money. The "Today" list, which has a circulation of about 2,000 copies, may sell less than that. Or some of the TVs that are extremely anti-Serb, and the media that are from these municipalities are left with no money at all or are left with enough money. It is not right for some municipality to finance "Blic" or make agreements, for public enterprises to advertise in lists that are highly anti-Serbian. I think one "Blic" today, the notion of an anti-Serb list. German property, highly anti-Serbian water policy, and the state has its own list, at least 50% of the value of "Politics", and has no ownership rights and no one knows who owns "Politicals". And if he has his own list, then he's advertising everything on his list. What else is our problem? Which every self-government decides which bank they keep their accounts in. And whoever's setting it up... Is that off? Cancelled, well, I've been fighting for years to end it. So everything that's in the budget has to be in one bank and that's a bank that's under complete or significant control of the state. Not everyone with that money can have what they want. We have a situation where local self-governments are in debt and over-debted. According to the Ottomans, it was catastrophic, but it's not good now either. And, now, local self-government can get into the nebulous debt at least when they take these short-term loans, but when they take investment loans, there are frequent cases of recalculating possibilities, so they can get into a job that chokes the whole community in the end. These are all diseases that must be dealt with by law. It states here that these legal changes, so the whole paragraph, do not solve the problem of the unsystemic character of the 2011 law. Well, then this law does not provide a basis for improving the quality and credibility of the budget process at local level. So, in advance, there are all weaknesses and shortcomings in the law. Well, then why were you in such a hurry with this law? The government was formed almost two months ago, a month and a half ago, and you had time to prepare a whole law, so you could try to solve all these negativity. Well, to get to a horizontal balance that's much more important to us. It's much more important now and more dangerous that our local self-governments don't have equal treatment, not to say the same, I can never have the same, but they should have equal treatment. So, under the same conditions, the same income, the same opportunities, and they don't. There are local self-governments that are privileged, and there are those who are abandoned, who are deliberately suppressed, and sometimes there are party bickerings between the central authorities and local authorities. We are used to all this 25 years of renewed Serbian parliamentaryism. There are other things we should look at. You'll probably pass this law, of course. I don't have the illusion of being able to distract you from that intention, but we have a new budget law ahead of us. Come on, prove yourself to be a serious authority, submit a draft budget law that will not include the deficit in advance. Let's make savings at all levels. What your predecessor in that place promised to do, she didn't. She didn't file a bill on payment classes. People, we live in a country where one Citizen Protector has 350,000 salaries, governor, as much as he said, 600,000, and its clerks in the bank and officials, and MPs and ministers 100 grand. I may have 102 because of my past work. It doesn't matter, but it's around here somewhere. I've been charged with past work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2106	Much less, you're a cobweb.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2107	All together when the salary is calculated is much less that there are no cobwebs. Look, the governor of the National Bank can't have a higher salary than the Deputy Prime Minister. That's about his state level. You'll say - but he's more responsible. What's he responsible for? What he does is trade. It can be done by any good economist if there is no political pressure to do the opposite. In the 1990s, we had governors who were capable, but they worked under pressure and did the wrong thing. Nikola Stanic is the creator of that project of the new dinar, which was attributed to Avramovic, and Nikola Stanic was a man of the regime, and when he was given the task -- he made a time of dinar, he made an hour of dinar. It's no hard work, and the National Bank then prints money and thinks if they print money, all the employees, everyone who prints money, can figure out how much they need. He can't. Neither can the Protector of the Citizens, nor can any other public official. You know, it comes from the fact that the highest rank is formally the highest, not the core, president of the Republic, to the level of the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme Court. The Constitution is not clear to us whether it is the Supreme Constitutional Court or the Supreme Cassation Court. These three salaries must be the highest in the public sector. No director of a public enterprise should have a bigger one. How can flight controllers have? Come on, controllers as experts, but why the director, why administrative staff?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2108	Time MP, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2109	These are all the questions your Ministry has to resolve, and I wanted to look back at them briefly in this limited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2110	Thank you. Wait a minute, Minister, we've got another article in 96, and then you've got your time by article 96. Marinika Tepic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2111	Thank you, President. In the last two days of crossing arguments and counterarguments on the subject which is on the agenda somehow comes to an impression as if we are talking about two conflicted states, not the lives of citizens, our fellow citizens of the same and the only country, which, in LSV's view, are going to be worsened living conditions at local level and that does not require rebalancing, since the law is in force next year, but these interventions could, in our opinion, change or apply on the basis of amendments to some other laws that have less impact on the fundamental competences of municipalities and cities. For example, changing the structure, or separation, for example. Under the law on gambling, which incomes, harvesting, for example. from bookies, poker machines, etc. do not affect the lives of citizens properly, but they could redistribute or re-purpose, if we are already talking about the application since 2017, so this budgetary change would concern a new budget, you could re-schedul. What we have also heard on many occasions is the constant comparison of municipalities and cities that do well or better work and those who do not do it or do it badly, but I think, in full faith, I have no reason not to believe in the data of the particular that you exported from the municipality to the municipality and the city, and also the very city of Belgrade, which unfortunately, although we have heard that individual municipalities function well in the territory of the city of Belgrade, the city of Belgrade on its total territory, on one third of the total territory is still lying on septic caves, which is for example. The work of local self-government. But, listening to this disproportion, it is my question – why didn't you approach the chronological arrangement of this area, not this inverse, or why the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government first did not take place by changing the one-stage system that is now in force and the monotypicity of cities and municipalities, for example, into a political system. Although monotyping is tempered by the establishment of cities, we cannot strictly talk about that typical monotyping, but it is a one-step monotypic system, so you are, for example, a monotypic system. establish the most necessary local competences for which the old town or municipality must be and that, in accordance with the ability of the executive authorities, the rest of them shall be optional and in accordance with this, to provide additional resources. It would already look like what we all notice and criticize here, and I think it would be fairer and fairer. In this regard, I would like to say that this system is deeply incorrect because in its monotypicity and one-stageness, it is the exact same competence that has tens of thousands introduced into the order of municipalities and cities that have different population, different territorial coverage, different geographical structure, different conditions for the lives of their fellow citizens. I think in that direction it was necessary to consider, not this reverse system, but first to change that elemental law, and then, accordingly, to provide funds for jurisdiction. What I must say, which has really bothered me on several occasions when our guest minister spoke to the MPs, I believe, unwittingly using the post office, unfortunately, every time, unfortunately, speaking about this change in relationship 60:40, and vice versa, for the sake of local self-government when it comes to tax revenues on earnings, because I really believe that the minister should be a peri-defyer of decentralisation at the head of that column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2112	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2113	For two full days, we've been discussing a bill that I hope we agreed would be smarter if it had appeared entirely in the law on the financing of local self-government. This is how we got where we are to talk about a change that can't bring any better, you'll agree, Minister, with me, because someone will be cut off for that money. If I remember the budget well from four years ago, indian, that's, say, a whole subsidy for absolute subsidy, transportation of high school kids will run out of 40 or 50 million dinars. What remains a misunderstanding, I was saying yesterday, although there was no TV transmission, because we don't talk here because of TV transmission, and we're obliged to be informed that we have a confusion here, I'm confused, and I mean Serbian citizens, we have statements, first of all, prime ministers, that we have a great state of public finances, we have a great situation in the current account, but that the first point of the agenda in this session we are reducing 4.8 billion. Who is it that leads to error? We've heard it's never been better in Serbia. Today we heard you live in Priboj. I'm thrilled with that data, but, unfortunately, why are we taking those funds and not going out with a whole law? Of course, some citizens will suffer. Whether it's gonna be some babies or some kids in schools, some funds will be taken, and I'd like to see an analysis of when you show up with the Tax Act, which I absolutely support, because it's impossible to live up to certain local self-governments to natural entities who are so abnormally burdened with parafiscal duties and then tell us openly what local self-government has done through fees to fine-tuning the law that will be missing the next period. I'm sure of the ingenious ideas of various community presidents, that we'll have a situation where there will be abnormal ideas that you must share with us at that time. Someone's going to suffer, the sea, because those funds are shrinking. Someone has to suffer. We cannot say that this law will improve the dramatic situation or solve some serious problems in the fiscal deficit. I appeal once again to the second position of the Fiscal Council. I read it yesterday, and today I'm going to paraphrasise it, and he says this: to deal with what's transparent, with what's institutional corruption, and that's the discretionary right of any high-ranking official, from prime minister to minister, to the discretionary portions of the means to which he thinks to share. That's what we agreed on today and yesterday in parliament. Discretionary law is out of the question, so here comes the criticism, mine to your side, when you were talking about compensation yesterday. We need to know which projects you're going to choose when you say you're going to start funding the projects all the way. That's terribly important. We have a simple confidence in the process ahead of us. As for several times mentioned in India, where I haven't been a senior official for four years, and my esteemed colleague from Ruma, mathematics is a tricky thing and it's exact. About 25% or 20%, I'm sorry, there are more rum residents than the Indji municipality, and if you'll agree... Mr. Aleksic said it is two years short of time to destroy local self-government, and I think four is enough to build a local self-government, and Ruma has a unique authority for four years. Today, at this point, the Indjia municipality has 25% more income per profit tax than the Ruma municipality, which is 20% higher. These are the exact figures of the work we were doing in the Indji municipality compared to the municipality of Rum. Apple is the key. Please come out as soon as possible with the new funding law. Don't make any more accusations against some people from 2011. We agreed it wasn't a good solution. Don't play ping-pong for five years after the time when the budget and local self-government are damaged. Come on, get out of here as soon as possible with the law. Don't wait for a new budget for 2017 without having clear and transparent ways of sharing public funds that belong to every citizen of this country. Once again, perhaps, I will repeat yesterday's goal is to keep as much money as possible in the government of the Republic of Serbia, knowing the local leaders who took responsibility in his name to run the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2114	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one said there was a great living in Serbia, no one said we didn't have major economic problems. Unfortunately, we have them, but these are the problems inherited because of the disastrous economic policy that has been led in Serbia for 12 years. I also brought out my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group only some economic indicators in the areas of industry, agriculture, retail trade, inflation, which talk about Serbia slowly, but surely moving forward, that Serbia is in economic plus and that for the first eight months of this year we have achieved a 2.8% GDP growth. Is that great, does that mean everyone in Serbia is doing great? Of course it doesn't, but we are taking measures thanks to which Serbia is slowly but certainly coming out of the economic and financial crisis. As far as the municipalities here were concerned, the DS left a billion and a half dinar debt in India, in Ruma 550 million dinars, in Vrbas a billion and a half dinars. About Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, big cities in Serbia are not worth talking about. It's all the legacy of DS, people who are without any control, and with much more money they did what they wanted and those units of local self-government put them in an extremely difficult material situation. This law is trying to correct it, and you, Mrs. Brnabic, will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group to pass this law, because we believe that it and how it will act...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2116	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2117	... to local self-government, to turn to economic development, not to be reduced to a mere administration, but to serve as citizens and what is very important, what you were talking about, the service of small and medium-sized enterprises, one ambience that will attract investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2118	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic, right to replication Buddy, you checked out, I didn't notice you. [[Dragan Vesović, from the city: The Rules of Procedure are pre-replicated.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2119	Thank you. I would point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. - The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I must tell you that for the third time, the chairman, you are violating Article 104, where it is said that the replica cannot last longer than two minutes and all three cases of violations are in the event of Mr Martinovic's address. I understand that you are the same parliamentary group, but I believe that you are the first among the equal and that all MPs should have the same working conditions in this tide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2120	My colleague, according to the Rules of Procedure, has been writing for two minutes, and I am trying to get an MP to finish his thought and sentence when he gives a replica. If you followed closely, it was not only Mr Martinovic and the SNS and the MP club, but also the same provisions applied to other fellow Members. Mine is about a second minute by warning the MPs to bring the discussion to an end and about 10-15 seconds to complete their thought. If you hadn't done this now and had not advertised the Rules of Procedure, I would have given Mr. Jesic the same time as Mr. Martinovic, about a second. It is very difficult in those two minutes that an MP who wants to replicate something should explain his replica in detail. I agree that there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure, as you say – strictly two minutes, but you will see what it looks like, not in half a sentence, but the words turn off the microphone. I don't think you want it. I don't think anyone wants it. The aim and purpose of this Rules of Procedure that we apply is to treat all MPs equally by the Rules of Procedure. If Mr. Martinovic had two minutes and 27 seconds, so will Mr. Jesic and you if you are in that replica. Do we understand each other? Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (Dragan Vesovic, from the place: No need. Mr. Jesic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2121	Thank you. It won't take me that long, but anyway, thanks again. When I said you were talking about a better life, I know, and we can absolutely prove that you're living an exact better life. That's clear, because of the three jobs you do. I couldn't deal with local self-government and sit in parliament and run a serious business. You're doing great work at the university. Congratulations on that. As for Indjija's debt, Tomislav Nikolic made his first visit to Indjija, opened "Grunfus" in Indjia. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: There is also an apartment in Vienna. ) Don't throw it away, I said it's done at the Romanian Fair. On the other hand, Prime Minister Vukic's first visit, following these elections, was a factory in India. The other day Tomislav Nikolic opened a factory in India. Of course they're not exactly in charge, but the property is much bigger, and that's where I put an end to this story. What I would like to forget, I apologize to you, Anna, to tell you, is a serious remark that I have, at one point you probably unwittingly commended one of the best mayors in Serbia, which is Sasa Paunovic. You told the opposition mayor. I mean you, you're the minister of the Serbian government, we're all the same here in front of you and all the citizens and the mayors alike in front of you, and I want to hear that kind of thing from you no more. I know it wasn't intentional. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2122	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2123	You, Mr. Jesic, are a good example of really living better in Serbia. If it didn't get any better, where would you have an apartment in Vienna? Right? How could someone have an apartment in Vienna without living well in Serbia? How could someone have a villa on Tatar Hill near Novi Sad without living well in Serbia? How could anyone have, what was the name of the company "Milk Republic", which until a few months ago supplied dairy products to the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, without public procurement, without living well in Serbia? You, Mr. Jesic, are the best example that Serbia is really moving forward, that a simple man who, by 2000, almost as if he knew him, acquired an apartment in Vienna, a villa on Tatar Hill, has a firm, is an MP, and goes Serbia forward, here you are the best example.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2124	Right on the line, Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2125	The Honorable Chairman, Lorist was a fair last week in Novi Sad and there was a roaring contest. Unfortunately, the Slovenians won, because we didn't report, obviously the personnel we have here. That's the first thing. Don't run and scream when the MP's talking. That's the first thing. The other thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2126	Mr. Jesic, I beg you, no one has offended you in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2127	I'm sorry. The other thing is, it's a great thing when you talk in parliament when you know you can't answer for lying in parliament, because it protects every MP's immunity. So I'm just saying it's a shame not to tell the truth and it's a shame to lie. Everyone has reported what they have, and we know that the state pays most of all of all the MPs in this House have the head of the SNS Parliament club. I admire him for doing the job of the president of the Assembly of Ruma, how parliament is run here, and how he sits in the Faculty of Law. He's just this amazing guy who can do it all. Congratulations, so there's no need to laugh now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2128	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Now we're finishing a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2129	Look at you, Mr. Jesic. You're not doing much party work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2130	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2131	So, it seems to me that my esteemed DS colleague is having a little trouble doing party work, so his colleagues haven't informed him that I'm not the president of the municipal assembly. That's information you can get in a very simple way. I'm not gonna pay attention to this roaring, torturing, someone who's obviously just speaking that language and can talk. No other way. What is essential is that we are trying, through this bill, not only to address the issue of reducing the republican deficit, or the deficit of the republican budget. This law has a stimulating character in relation to local self-government not to be reduced to units dealing exclusively with paying their salaries to their employees, but to become in the right sense these words good service to their citizens and good service to small and medium-sized enterprises, to be at the service of all investors who want to invest in Serbia, both domestic and foreign. As for the insinuation that Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic visited Indji, I do not think there is a forbidden city in Serbia in which the prime minister and president of the Republic cannot come because it is not at the will of this or that MP from the DS. Every municipality and every city in Serbia is Serbian municipalities and Serbian cities and the Prime Minister and the president of the Republic can come to any municipality and city in Serbia. Where good luck comes from the one that Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic came from, which is the opening of a new factory and the opening of new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2132	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2133	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been patiently waiting these two days and it's just touching to get around to saving 4.8 billion people who don't care. For a simple reason, because of the savings, i.e. the income paid by the Republic to local self-government and the reduced income is certainly not affected. They don't rule anywhere except in the Maldives. We Maldives don't finance. Also, I have to say, today is a big day. We're double-marking him in India. We mark it as "the day of the sacred foot", when a member of the party of the former regime, the longtime president of the municipality waved his foot stolen from the chair, so I ask security for every case, since he is there, to take care of the chairs, expensive pictures, carpets. As a passive participant, "5. October" I've experienced it, but in India I mark, and so does Indjia "5. October double. In 2007, I replaced these democratic giants because, as president of the Assembly, I returned the law to the radicals of their mandates. I was replaced on October 5th, 2007 by the Water Management Board without a quorum, without a president, a secretary, a deputy for the simple reason to be in charge. We're talking about 4.8 billion savings. She's real. No longer are members of the former regime's party to local self-government. Maybe somewhere. That savings is guaranteed. It's a small expense. They ate so much and drank there in two months, while they ruled local self-government. What's the point of saving? Local self-government takes care of communal affairs. People are united in local self-government that they can't take care of their communal needs alone, and they single out certain money, so that public businesses are taken care of by those who choose to build the streets, build water, have water, have garbage, have the cemetery arranged, etc. It's community business. Gentlemen from the party of the former regime, collecting taxis and taxes is like collecting honey from the hive. You have to leave something and bees to survive so next time you can pick something up. Speaking of bees, there are 60,000 drones in the bee's society, and 2,000 drones, 30 per cent. That's how society should function, like bees. It was the other way around. There were 30 drones on one radio, and now that you're in charge of what you can do, you're reporting as the great defenders of local self-government that you no longer manage. Here we were talking about the successful and capable. Yesterday, he was a party representative of the former regime, and I expected the duke's authority and Mr. Bisenim to explain it to me, declared capable and successful. He's calling for math today. He's gone. Let's see what math says. Debt of Indji municipality 1.665,027,000. The 2009 "Monter" dispute for the 2009 University for a hall that has not yet been completed, and the University was due to be completed in 2009, a dispute with the "Monter", a company that belonged most likely to my small party or belonged to a party of the former regime, 440 million. All in all, there are still debts, two billion and 100 million, one small municipality owes so much. Whether the party of the former regime has explained it enough or not, I believe it has reduced those debts. How'd they spend it all? We transfer from RFO to drug money, and instead of medications, they go to ticksales. Three thousand lunches, Home of Health "Mika Pavlovic", Indjija. Instead of drugs, burgers, Vienna steaks, etc. Here's the contract, 3,000 in glues, where 200 grams of burgers cost 850 dinars and lunch for 3,000 people, I've never seen a gathering in India of 3,000 people, but come on, 3,722,040 dinars. One lunch for 3,000 people. Let's move on. The Indjia municipality makes a contract of those couples they paid, in the poor and fired, underpaid, making a contract on an idea project to build a closed pool. There's no idea project or pool. But it's somewhere ahead of the election, someone honored, 20.4.2012, with 3,516,000. But the pool doesn't have one as it says, but there is one in those who made private businesses out of public business, so the representative of the former regime, here I won't call for immunity, has an apartment in Indjia, has another apartment that he sold, has a penthouse house, I'll explain it already, if Mr. Atlagic doesn't execute this documentation, he has an apartment in Vienna, all of 1,000 euros. Before that he worked as a waiter at Extrim, he did no real work to have it, and his uncle, or uncle, an apartment in Vienna and a pool for his uncle. And the uncle in the village of Putinci, or the uncle, has a closed pool, and Mr. Martinovic, you've been checking, he's a social aid recipient. And since the uncle or uncle, as the recipient of social assistance, has acquired a pool that is not available in India and whose idea project has been paid, it remains to be seen and to see the organs that should be dealt with. Let's move on, when he's talking about math, let's see the library. It's a real estate deal, 1,000 squares of rough work done for the library in India, 1,000 squares, here are the annexes contracts. These are local self-government revenues, a total of 376,190,540 dinars - three million euros for 1,000 squares roughly finished on land on which the investor did not pay for municipal equipment in the facility, there are records because I was sending a construction inspection before my shift, where it says that the investor "Trejunik" from Belgrade, behind the plot as you have stated, does not possess documentation for the start of construction. The building bought 1,000 squares for the library, for threem euros or three thousand euros per square metre. For this he could buy another apartment in Vienna, but behold, in that very building on top there is a penthouse house in which he lives, which is of course registered to a company so as not to apply, of 250 square meters. It's mathematics that speaks of India, and you all remember "Energogreen". Since it has been said here that much has been done for India, I have created a cigarette factory, brought in eightm euros of infrastructure, brought along with the gentleman from the economy to the German heating factory in India, which is working now, and I guess I'm now awarded a shift on October 5th 2007. Debt was zero, now the debt of the Inland municipality is 2 billion 100 million. It's the mathematics of these successful and capable who have successfully and able to rob these citizens. They treated local self-government as other people's mare. The other's mare doesn't have the capacity to carry. They were loading as much as they could until the poor mare almost fell. Now that the time has come for us to live off what we earned, he is still discussing the division, not discussing creation. They're used to picking and harvesting, not used to producing, planting, sowing. They are only for distribution without any creation, and they are now complaining of power, regardless of what they are concerned, this savings, which may, thanks to that savings, increase the subsidies in agriculture and if for years both mathematically and in practice and physically, for years, in Vojvodina, have been peeling the skin of the people every year for 16 years, brimming it rawly, they're fired, they're poorly paid, they've robbed, and now they're moaning over their fate. Dear citizens, you who expect and don't expect those who robbed you yesterday to be able to take you to someone better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2134	More Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at the end of this debate, some of my colleagues were still a little more concerned with politics, a little less about the essence of the law. No one, in fact, mentioned the former regime's MPs, the way the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia functions and that the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia is working as a consolidated account and that the liquidity of local self-government enters the general liquidity of the state. Since 8 March this year, all budgetary users, either directly or indirectly, must operate exclusively through the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia, under the Budget System Act, which was amended in December of last year, and there is a particular reason why so. For example, certain local self-governments, and there were a lot of stories here about responsibilities, where the mayors were from the former regime, knew they were depositing their local self-government funds with business banks. Someone will say – their legitimate right. Yes, it is. But then, of these same business banks, they took loans for their local self-government at a much higher interest than he was getting from the bank for his own funds, say the town of Pogorec, exactly 468 million dinars, deposited at the bank at 2.5% interest and then raised a loan for that same amount, with a interest rate of 5.5% plus a foreign exchange clause. They're so poor our local self-government and that's how it was done during the former regime. Today, all direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds and even political parties must operate through the vault of the Republic of Serbia, even religious communities, if they receive donations or are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. None of his fellow MPs wanted to accept one fact, that there were original revenues from local self-government and that it was regulated by a member, I think, 6. The law on the financing of local self-government and that there are confidential revenues regulated by Article 35, which is the subject of these amendments. These are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, for some reason, some of the reasons in 2011, is to finance a campaign for local, presidential and parliamentary elections, has disowned itself and transferred to local self-government. So it's a republican income. The circumstances for such funding have ceased and the republic considers that one part of the funds, which was then entrusted to local self-government, has returned to the jurisdiction of the Republic. If within four years local self-governments have not resolved the issue of their overindebtedness, they have not begun to resolve local infrastructure, and these are mainly the managements that were elected in 2012, where the former regime was most involved, they have done nothing, the question of whether in the coming years, well, I don't understand so much concern at once for local self-government, because we see how they took care of them in an earlier period. I was surprised that many of my fellow MPs don't know the competences of public enterprises, that they don't know the Law on Public Enterprises, that they don't know that public enterprises do some public authority, that's what it says, but under the Law on Public Enterprises, they're obliged to get some of the payments to their founder, so in this case local self-government. Now I'm asking one question, here, not a public firm, but one institution. How is it that the Apothecary Institute of Firevac is making a profit of, say, 80 million, and that some other drugstore institution where the former regime has proved to be a loss? Or what about public enterprises? How come some public companies are showing profits and some are showing a loss? Guys, it's not the law, it's the executives. These executives are elected by local self-government, and local self-government units have been chosen by some will of citizens. Now you want to protect that will of the citizens from another level of government? Well, please don't. Why are you so concerned about the second level of government? Why didn't you take care of him while you were in power? That's when it was time. When public enterprises, when you came to power, did not have such debts, when municipalities did not have such debts, when you leave power, you ask who will repay your debts, how will your debts return. Well, someone else more honest and honest, more valuable management will return it, unfortunately. Talking about taking away even sandwiches, about a kid not having a ride, about someone getting hurt because of the lack of lightning. Let me ask you a question. Republic roads and first category roads, highways, whose jurisdiction are the republics or local self-governments? And you've left those roads that are funded, their maintenance from the Republic budget, that people get hurt on them, because you didn't make the highway to Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, but you were crossing the fields. Then how do you take care of the citizens? Is it possible that every accident that happens you want to show that the prime minister or the government of the Republic of Serbia is guilty, and they've been much taller and much more drastic during your government, that's the only thing the newspapers shouldn't even write about. What else is being financed from the Republic budget? A colleague here read how many local self-governments have total employees in their administration, how many republics there are. Well, why didn't he say that all the employees in the education receive salaries from the republican budget, when he read that huge number, which he didn't say and that all the officers are getting salaries from that republican budget and that all health workers are getting salaries from that republican budget and that all the soldiers are getting salaries from that republican budget? It was important to find a grudge and say something. Education, health care, police and military don't live in the rest of Serbia? That's not there? It's like a piece of this money won't be directed at them, too. You're talking about pensioners' concerns, someone even said that pensions were anti-constitutional. I told them that the pensioners suffered most of the crisis, we thanked them for it, and in the previous elections they showed that this government has the support of them because these austerity measures they see as an investment, an investment for the future of their children, an investment for the future of the state, because they were responsible for building and building it, while you were in power, you were disintegrating it. Then why do you mention these unfortunate people so much? There's just one more question you can't answer. When you take the example of other European countries, find developed European countries that finance their pension funds from their budgets? No, they're funded from the contributions their employees make. When did the lack in the fund show up? When you started raising your pensions irrationally, when you completed one privatisation, so the employees lost not only jobs, but the state ran out of factories. Now all of a sudden, it's four billion or five. That's a lot of money, I couldn't agree more, but while you were in power, it was very little. That's why you're no longer in power, and that's why we're going to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2136	Thank you. Let me just tell you one more time, when I call an article in '96, one calls and everyone has to answer, otherwise there's no begging to hear from anyone. I do not make mistakes, and do not criticize me, when someone does not answer to shout, and I do. I don't know what that means. So, article 96, read 45 minutes ago, everyone has to report who wants to use Article 96, otherwise if there's no one on the list, the debate is concluded. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2137	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I'd like in these final few minutes to do one recapitulation of what our key objections to these amendments to the law are. First of all, Madam Minister, I don't know why you don't like us from "The Dvora", because only our MPs have responded to our arguments. From that I can conclude or that the criticism was so accurate and correct that you had nothing to say or that for some reason you didn't love us. To prove to you how constructive we are, here's to actually hear one analysis that will hopefully help you in further work. Two key arguments why this law of yours doesn't drink water. The first is that your main excuse is that you want to put into order those who do bad work at the bar. In fact, you punish those who work well and take their money. The second argument in this regard is of course that you are practically robbing local budgets with this law, and you are doing so by order of the IMF, so you are not independent in making decisions. They're not the only negative consequences. If there is no dismissal of party personnel, the participation of staff expenditure in total expenditure will be further increased, which will endanger the functioning of public utility companies, there will be no development process in the longer term, and due to not maintaining municipal infrastructure all systems such as water and sewerage networks, flood defence systems, water treatment. Subsidies will be abolished or reduced to the locals, especially farmers. There is a risk that the lack of budget revenues is replaced by an increase in property tax by the introduction of various parafiscal charges and fees that will have to be paid by citizens and businesses. Homes of health and apothecary institutions will be denied the reconciliation of obligations, and citizens are denied the possibility of quality health care. It will continue and extend the delay in reconciliation with employees. There will be increased risks in the area of emergency and security of citizens. The commitments of local self-government will be increased to outstanding obligations, including judicial costs. The above will be transferred sooner or later to the Republic budget. Of course, we have specific suggestions for you and what needs to be done differently. A legal solution to the problems mentioned above is necessary for the public finances of local self-government units both through this and through other laws. The law on the financing of local self-government must cover clear criteria and procedures for the functioning of finance, mechanisms for sound budgetary constraints, the principle of accountability and criminal sanctions for those responsible, in addition to the artificial inflating of budget revenues. Clear criteria should be established for short-term borrowing up to one year of local self-government in business banks with strong restrictions. It is necessary to reduce and limit the share of the cost of employee earnings in total expenditure. It is necessary to define and increase the mandatory volume of public investment in municipal infrastructure. It is necessary to work together with the National Employment Service to approve cooperative subsidies and other forms of business infrastructure that will be sustainable. It is necessary for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to establish comprehensive data on the scope and dynamics of unsettled commitments at local level, as well as to prepare an appropriate reprogramme. So, the serious state analyzes problems and concludes that they solve them. The finance ministry has identified certain problems, but is not working on their solution. So the form is satisfied, the IMF's orders will be met, which is obviously most important to you, the law will be applied, but the essential problems will not be solved, but deepened, and no one will be responsible for the consequences and so on in the circle. So, did this legal solution solve any of the problems in the functioning of local self-government? Have you solved the problem of corruption? Have you solved the accidental spending of funds? Have you solved party employment by temporary and occasional transactions? Did you list unwritten taxpayers who don't pay property tax? Did you hire where there are no professional workers? Have you increased the salaries of those who are the best officials, on whom the work of local self-government rests? By the way, speaking of those paying classes, I think the first salaries, Madam Chairman, should rightly be increased by officials in the professional service of this National Assembly here who have really funny, pathetic and sad salaries for the work they do so that this National Assembly can work. They never see each other in this tide, but we wouldn't be able to hold a single session without them. Finally, you have robbed these cities and municipalities of Serbia for five billion dinars, and then you will give our money, for Srebrenica five million euros, to pay back debts to the IMF, to give rich foreign companies that come here to make profits abroad, not to pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia, to make false bookkeeping invoices your profits abroad here, etc. Local authorities will reach out for an increase in property tax and further address the budget of poor citizens. So it will be the consequences of this law of yours. If you had been fair, you would have put the following provision into this law, and I don't see why you didn't. Yeah, we're going to take these five billion dinars for example, because we think you're not going to spend them on the bar, but we're going to do the same five billion dinars at the same height that we got you to return to you with certain means, and you're going to compete with quality projects for that. Then no one would object. But no, you want to take our money, and then you want to have whatever you want and give it to whoever you want. Now, that can't be. That's the problem with this law. What balances and other things? Well, balance some tycoons in the state. Balance a little foreign company. Balance foreign banks with the highest interest rates in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2138	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2139	Thank you very much. Just one last sentence. Some of the MPs said in their exhibitions that they were surprised that the Minister of State Administration and local self-government defends this law and explains it to parliament, because the minister of state administration and local self-government should protect the interests of local self-government. I guess that means then or it meant that in another period, the finance minister was supposed to attack the interests of local self-government. I want to assure you, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that I, as Minister of State Administration and local self-government, absolutely protect the interests of local self-government, but also that the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and protect and represent the interests of local self-government and that this government in general protects and represents the interests of all our local self-government, without reservation and without distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2140	I thank all those who participated today in the debate and conclude a unique search on this agenda point. Tomorrow we'll continue our amendments at this time. So, at 1800 hours, Minister, we're continuing on the amendments tomorrow, we need 24 hours, and I thank you for your work with us. Now we're going to continue on the 2nd point of the agenda. Five minutes break just so the minister can go out with his associates and come authorized for the next point. [[after breaks]] Dear Members, we can continue our work today. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Tatjana Lagmudzija and Sandra Kulezic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, Miroljub Tomic, Deputy Chairman of the High Council of the Judiciary, Ivan Jovičić, election member of the High Council of the Judges, and Vesna Janjic, independent adviser in the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search: the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Deputy Prosecutor, the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office (number 119-637/16 of 16 March 2016), the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office (number 119-726/16 of 4 April 2016), the Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office (number 119-1416/16 of 24 June 2016), the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in the judicial office (number 119-1715/16 of 29 July 2016), the Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first time in the judicial office (number 119-209/16 of 19 September 2016), the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of the Members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's of Serbia's, the draft members of the draft members of Serbia's's's's parliament's parliament's Members's Members's Members's resolution of the drafts parliament of the Republic. Does one of the proposings or the proposing representatives want a word? Please respond. Is there anyone who would like to hear from the proposal's representative? (No) Does the Justice Committee's rapporteur want a word? I've asked multiple times, please. I'd like to hear from you then.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2142	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to welcome you to the VSS. I am Miroljub Tomic, Vice President of the VSS and today I am here before you, to present proposals and explain proposals for the VSS concerning proposals for the first judicial post, so candidates who are first elected to the vacancy. Today, as far as I've done this record, we have a total of 62 proposals. As we know, based on Article 47. The Law on Judges, in line with the Decision on the Number of Judges in Courts, the VSS advertised in the "Official Messenger", as it went according to chronology, given the dates, as the President of the National Assembly said, the choice of judges for individual courts in courts where the VSS estimated that there were vacant Judges, and then all of this was published in the daily list "Politicals". In the course of proposing candidates for the selection of judges, the VSS is based on Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS made a decision on the education of the panel for the selection of judges, whose task was to carry out the examination of the applications submitted for the ad, to determine their completeness and well-being, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the election for judges and to assess whether the candidates met the criteria and criteria for the election. You will agree that in addition to all these parameters that we have in mind of material, when it comes to the results of the work of individual candidates, then to the evaluation of their colleagues, first-degree and second-degree colleges, I believe that we all agree that it is absolutely important and that the commission formed by the VSS conducts talks with the candidates, in order to gain insight into the knowledge in a direct conversation, i.e. the full quality of the candidates who submitted the application, i.e. applied for these Judges. Let me just say that for these judge seats that we're talking about today, when it comes to candidates for the first election of the judges, that a total of 1,225 candidates applied to all these contests, that 60 judges, 820 judges, lawyers 40 and other persons 305. In line with these regulations, the VSS committee held talks with a total of 1,165 candidates. I note that the commission does not hold talks with those candidates who are already in the judicial seats, but only with candidates who are practically elected to the judicial positions. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the VSS has obtained opinions for all candidates on expertise, skills and dignity for the performance of the judicial post. For those candidates who come from the courts, the opinion of all the judges of the court has been obtained from which the candidate originates, as well as the opinion of the session of all judges directly to the High Court. Why does it matter? Because we all know that when it comes to these young people, they are mostly judicial assistants, i.e. professional associates. The best insight into their work is, therefore, those older colleagues who are already judges in that court in which they carry out their work tasks and in the directly higher court and the best assessment of their work, i.e. the criterion of their work, can practically give judges who are in those courts. For candidates who do not work in the court, an opinion on the expertise, skills and dignity for the exercise of the judicial office of the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work has been obtained, and the opinion of the bar in which the lawyer is registered has been provided for candidates in the law. The selection committees held talks with candidates, as I said earlier, and on the basis of the Commission's report, taking into account the opinions of all the judges from whom the candidate is from and directly senior court, the VSS has established which candidates meet all the criteria and criteria for selecting the prescribed provisions of Article 43. Laws on Judges and Provisions of Art. 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Decisions laying down criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the choice of judges to be elected for the first time in a judicial capacity. When it comes to the decision mentioned here, in accordance with that decision, the Commission has practically taken care of how candidates themselves, in terms of their quality, are whether the candidates are assessed with the assessments "existed", "in particular it stands out", etc., then what opinion is directly, I say, the judges who assessed their work, or the judges who are located directly in a higher court. We appreciated, of course, the opinion of the commission itself who was having a conversation with candidates who practically appeared before the Commission itself and based on it all, therefore, given that we had assessed the candidates in their own, as I would say, generality. Look, there could have been a situation, let's say, that a certain candidate had a nine or a ten in college, which he certainly appreciated the VSS, but, let's say, he wasn't evaluated by the highest score by the judges, or by those who assessed his work. I can tell you that we have not proposed a single candidate who has not had an assessment "in particular stands out". Therefore, only those candidates who received the highest marks by their colleagues, i.e. co-worker, were taken into account immediately by the Court of Justice. Then, of course, we also appreciated the training of the candidates, in line with this decision. We know that training involves skills that enables the effective application of specific legal skills in solving court cases, that this training, which is very important for someone who will perform certain judicial functions tomorrow, conditioned primarily by a good knowledge of material and procedural law, the ability of analytical and synthetic opinion, diligence, the sense of co-operation, therefore, all of what makes one candidate, or tomorrow a judge, of quality, professional and educational. The ability of candidates to perform judicial functions can be evaluated and evaluated, of course, based on the commission's talks. Finally, the commission also took into account the dignity of the candidates, which it assessed on the basis of the opinion of the judges, i.e. the majority and session of the judicial department in which the judge's assistant was deployed. By estimating, therefore, all these parameters, once again I say, in their entirety, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The VSS Act, relating to Article 51. The Law on Judges, the VSS submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly on those dates as set out in the materials submitted to you in support of these proposals. The leading, therefore, account for all parameters and criteria, have in mind that this choice for a three-year period, therefore, is the first period for a particular person, who competes and applies for a judicial function, extremely, we considered it to be significant that young people on whom justice will practically remain tomorrow, depending on whether the proceedings will be conducted effectively or not, depending on whether certain decisions will be made within the legal period or not, therefore, these are individuals who will sit and judge certain cases and we felt that it is necessary and that it is important, and so we have managed these criteria, to propose what is best. So those who will be able to perform these functions professionally and efficiently and independently tomorrow. And just one dyspression. When we talk about this professionality and independence of the judiciary, which is a very common issue when it comes to the choice of judges, I always have to say that justice is as professional or independent as any judge is professional and independent. So these are the individuals who are going to be tried tomorrow, and it's very important that we choose the ones who are the best. All that we have said in these materials, with complete biography, with full results, with full analysis done by the High Council of the Judiciary, so the High Council of the Judiciary proposed to elect for judges of the First Basic Court in Belgrade: Veljic Milena, Judge at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Djordjevic Nada, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, Ilic Mihajlović Mirjana, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, Milosavljević Galović Milica, adviser at the Supreme Court of Cassation, Mimović Jelena, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, Novković Ljiljana, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Otašević Mina, judicial assistant at the First Court in Belgrade, Mimović Jelena, adviser at the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Justice of Justice of Belgrade, Mr Vrić Vrić Vrić, the Court of Belgrade, the Court of Belgrade, the Court of Belgrade, Vr. Then, to propose for judges of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade: Jevđenimic Natasa, judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Kovacevic Irina, judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Belgrade, Pavlovic Jacques, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. When it comes to courts in Belgrade, the proposal of the High Judicial Council is that judges of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade are proposed: Dabic Maja, judge's assistant at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, Đuričković Vuk, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Belgrade, Nikolic Milosavljevic Mirjana, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. For the judges of the Privredna Court in Zrenjanin are proposed: Jarić Dragan, judge of the Privredna Court in Zrenjanin, Popov Ljiljana, judge assistant at the Privredna Court in Zrenjan; then, to propose for judges of the Administrative Court: Vulić Mirjana, assistant director of the Public Enterprise for the construction of the town of Kragujevac and Marinković Vera, adviser in the Administrative Court. The proposal is for judges of the Basic Court in Nis: Dimitrijevic Goran, judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis, Dimčić Saša, judge of the Court of Justice at the General Court in Nis, Jocic Irena, user of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Mirković Snezhana, judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Niš, Mitrić Stojanović Anka, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, Pesić Christina, judicial assistant in the same court, Ristic Tatjana, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis and Simonović Milena, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis. The proposal is to propose to the judges of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad: Vujasinović Ksenija, Judge at the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, Savivić Andrian, Judges at the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad; Judges of the Privred Court in Cačka: Đoković Biljana, Judge at the Privredna Court in Čačka, Kovačević Jelena, Judicial Assistant at the Privred Court in Čač, and Judges of the Basic Court in Kragujevac: Makojevic Jovana, Judicial Assistant at the General Court in Kragujevac, Pavlovic Olivera, Judge at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Petrović Angela, Judge at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Rosic Marina, Judge in the Higher Court of Justice in Kragujevac. The proposal is to propose to the Judges of the General Court in the Kingdom: Kovačević Marina, Judge in the Basic Court of the Kingdom, Mrvić Mladen, Judge at the General Court in the Kingdom; to propose for the Judges of the General Court in Kursumlija: Milojević Danijela, Judge at the General Court in Kursumlia, Stanojević Marija, Judge at the Higher Court of Justice in the Council of the University of Prokup; to propose to the Judges of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, the Judges of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in Novi Pazar, Sretković Marko, the user of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Šumaržarčna Žač, the Court of Justice in the General Court of Raška, the Court of the Court of Justice in Raška, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Finally, for the judges of the General Court in Lazarevec, it is proposed: Marinkovic Snezana, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Coguric Bojana, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and Djokovic Dusica, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Valjevo. For the judge of the primary court in Obrenovac, Toskic Tijana, a judicial assistant at the primary court in Obrenovac, is proposed. Finally, for the judges of the Main Court in Velika Plana, it is proposed: Kovacevic Nemanja, Judge Assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and Puss Uglješ, Judge at the Main Court in Velika Plana. So, this is a proposal for candidates who are proposed to the National Assembly for the first election for judicial functions. You've seen for yourself that it's the largest number of candidates that actually come from the courts themselves, that they're judicial assistants, professional associates who have been in court since the very beginning. It is the intensity and thinking of the High Council of the Judiciary to move forward and to move forward in careers, so-called. career progress in the judiciary, to choose, therefore, for judges who have had the opportunity to work in court from the beginning. Most of them are like that. We also have a number of candidates from other state authorities, behind whom the High Council of the Judiciary has assessed that they will be able to perform this function successfully and in quality. It is on the one hand, and on the other hand, ultimately, it is the intensity and the National Strategy for Justice Reform when it comes to first judicial elections. So much for these candidates themselves. Complete biography, complete work results, complete recommendations are contained in the materials themselves, and we are here, of course, to answer all questions and to clarify certain proposals if, of course, necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2143	Do any of the D.A.'s representatives want to take the floor, explain? Here you go. The word has a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors, Sandra Kulezic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2144	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable Members of the People, it is my honor to present today in front of the State Council of Prosecutors the candidates the State Council has proposed for the first election for the deputy attorney general. Namely, the state's major prosecutor's office is on the 8th of September. In 2016, they submitted a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the selection of a total of 22 candidates for the deputy public prosecutor who were first elected to serve as deputies for a period of three years for: the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, six candidates; the Second General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, three candidates; the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, three candidates; the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, four candidates; the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, one candidate; the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Brussels, one candidate; one candidate in Raška, one candidate; the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, one candidate; the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac, one candidate and the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon, one candidate. According to the proposal for a decision you received in the material, Jokanovic Daniel, the Assistant Prosecutor's Attorney General in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Kalajić Aleksandra, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Nikolic Mioljuba Milen, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, Savkovic Jelen, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Sunaric Ivana, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. As deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Second General Public Prosecutor, the State's Attorney General proposed: Dozlevski Ivana, prosecutor's assistant in the war crimes prosecutor Lero Tianu, the prosecutor's assistant in the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Milovanovic Predrag, the prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. As deputy public prosecutor at the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, State Major Prosecutors proposed: Dobric Ljiljana, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Lazovic Lazara, a judicial assistant at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade and Tesic Gordan, the prosecutor's assistant at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. As Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor in Novi Sad, the State's Chief Prosecutors proposed: Barac Aleksandra, user of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Bodić Maric Ksenija, prosecutor's assistant at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Vukosavljevic Rajka, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad and Krstic Predrag, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. The state's chief prosecutor, Simi Tamara, the prosecutor's assistant at the New Sad General Prosecutor's Office, proposed for the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Vienna. The state's chief prosecutor was proposed by Mihajlovic Milan, prosecutor's assistant at the Brussels General Public Prosecutor's Office. Djorovic Sanju, prosecutor's assistant assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Raska, was proposed by the state's chief prosecutor. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka, the state's major prosecutor was proposed by Markovic Ivan, a user of the initial training of the Judiciary Academy. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac, the state's chief prosecutor was proposed by Radonjic Anj, the prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka, and the state's chief prosecutor, Sucevic Jelen, the prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon, proposed. In the light of this decision, there are short biographies of each of the proposed candidates. I wouldn't do individual biography. I suppose you'll be able to read them. But I'm just going to point out what's unique to all these biographies that characterize these proposed candidates. Namely, from these biographies above all, it comes out that all the proposed candidates meet the legal requirements for selecting the deputy public prosecutor, that almost all the proposed candidates have devoted their professional careers to work in the judiciary, starting with a traineeship and what is particularly interesting, most of these biographies result in the fact that the largest number of these people volunteering during the traineeship, and you know that the traineeship for the lawyers is a little longer, so for every praise that someone, wanting to remain in the judiciary, has acted in such a way in his way towards some function, in this case the deputy public prosecutor. Afterwards, these people worked on the affairs of the prosecutor’s, or judicial assistant, after having passed the judicial exam, and then some of them began, or completed training at the Judicial Academy. The largest number of candidates proposed for the first election of the public prosecutor's deputy in those prosecutors worked on the prosecution's, or judicial assistant for more than five years, and some of the candidates proposed for more than ten years. I stress this because, after hearing the results, a large number of candidates had very high marks, as high as possible, so the first criterion that the state's senior prosecutors were managed, except for those evaluations that were mandatory, is the fact that we give the opportunity to people who were the longest time and worked as experts in courts and prosecutors. In addition, all the candidates proposed were trained in addition to work on cases in the past period, and in criminal-legal subjects, and trained professionally, attending professional seminars and training. That's what comes from their biography. Also, what comes from their biographies and what they deliver along with them is that all the proposed candidates had a common average in the course of the study of over eight. When it comes to the very procedure of proposing those candidates, I would first point out that these candidates applied for competitions opened by the State's Major Prosecutors on 12 February 2016 and 30 March 2016. A total of 143 candidates were reported in both competitions, of which 122 candidates ended the process. Three categories of candidates participated in the competition: prosecutor's and judicial assistants, candidates with completed training at the Judiciary Academy, deputy public prosecutor, who are currently serving as public prosecutor, but in another public prosecutor's office. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity of candidates in the process of proposing the election of public prosecutors, the State's Chief Prosecutors for the conduct of the election procedure formed three commissions: the Commission for the assembly and evaluation of the written and oral test for candidates who applied for an ad as of 12 February, which the Commission also conducted a written test for candidates who applied for the competition on 30 March 2016, then the second committee formed to draw up and evaluate oral text for candidates after the competition on 30 March 2016 and the Commission for the talks with candidates who were the public prosecutor, all this because different groups of candidates had different selection procedures, and therefore there was a need for different commissions to assess them. All these three commissions carried out written and oral testing of candidates in the area of their powers, and subsequently assessed candidates in accordance with the provisions of the Regulations. The Commission's evaluations were made available to the candidates, with the possibility that they could appeal to them. In addition to those commissions, the State's chief prosecutor for the implementation of these competitions formed a working group composed of election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, which discussed reports, i.e. the lists of candidates drawn up by those commissions. The task force then formed a final list of all candidates participating in the competitions. This ranking list was published on the State Council of Prosecutors' advertising board and none of the candidates who participated in the election procedure on the aforementioned ranking list had any objections, or objections. An analysis of the success of the candidate test can determine that a large number of candidates scored the highest number of points between 69 and 70, which is the maximum, and this certainly speaks of the quality of the proposed candidates. The State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal covers the best candidates from all categories of candidates, and those from the prosecutor's assistants, the students of the Academy's initial training, candidates who completed training at the Academy and the judicial assistants. In addition to the number of points the candidates made on the test, i.e. on the basis of a previous assessment of their work, the State's major prosecutors particularly appreciated their work résumés, length of internships and special knowledge and skills, as well as the areas of rights that they have dealt with in the context of their previous work experience. Given the quality of the proposed candidates, the evaluation of their previous work, the evaluations they made during written and oral testing, the fact that all candidates for a number of years are working on judicial affairs, and in criminal and legal matter, I am sure that the proposed candidates will justify our and your trust as future deputy public prosecutor and will make a significant contribution to strengthening the quality of work in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2145	The word is from the Justice Committee's rapporteur, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2146	Mr Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Court, the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee of Justice and the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, discussed at its session all these proposals of the Supreme Council of the Judicial and State Council for the selection of judges and deputies of the basic and public prosecutors who were first elected and decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept proposals from the High Council of the Judicial and the State Council of Prosecutors and that these candidates, who were proposed by these two bodies, be elected judges who were first elected and the deputy general public prosecutors elected for the first time. As you know, I, as chairman of the Committee in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, am a member of the State Council of the High Council of the Judiciary and I have participated in the work of these two bodies in making these decisions to propose to the National Assembly these candidates for the first time to elect judges who are elected or the deputy of the primary public prosecutors who are first elected. I can tell you very responsibly that both bodies, i.e. one and the other bodies, have been very responsible, securely, thoroughly considering all the candidates for the election of judges, i.e. the deputy of the main public prosecutors and this proposal that lies before us today is the proposal of this work and the State Council of the Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the previous commission formed by these two bodies and which came forward with a particular proposal. All these young people, who are scheduled to be elected judges of the basic courts, i.e. deputies of the general public, have shown by their work so far, that they can rightly bear the role of judges of the basic court, i.e. the deputy of the general public prosecutors. And therefore, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we should not have a dilemma, we should vote for these proposals and rejuvenate the Serbian judiciary, that we have quality young people who have proven themselves so far as judge, or prosecutoral assistants in their work, that they know they're doing their job, that they love their job first. What I mean is, in the end, none of the candidates on the Committee has been challenged in any way, so I urge you once again to agree unanimously on the proposals of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2147	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2148	Thank you. Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, respected guests, or members of the High Council and the Greater Prosecutors, what is for us, unlike the chairman of the board, is a dilemma of how and in what way, since you know what we are all, through these 20 years of fighting, firstly, for the division of power into a judicial, legislative and executive party, that is, an organization that has worked really hard, not only for Serbia to bring closer to European values and orderly societies, but, in particular, through the laws and reforms that we can today have an effective and most important independent judiciary. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the judge's office is a permanent and exceptional person elected for the first time, elected for three years. Mr Tomic was very clear in the work that talked about the talks held by the Commission, which was chosen by the High Council of the judiciary, and then on the criteria that were clearly clear, in the end on parameters, or results that were, in concrete cases, appreciated. The criteria, the question – were they the same for those who worked in court and for those who did not work in court? Were the same parameters used when it came to each other? 1225 reported, if I heard correctly, the candidate, and 1165 is now being interviewed. What about the others? I'm glad they're young and professional people. What gives hope is that most candidates, when it comes to candidates, or candidates of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, are also concerned with the State's larger prosecutors. On the one hand, it gives me hope that we have become a society that takes care that we place women in responsible positions, and on the other hand, what scares me is that this is not a rule in our system and that usually women are placed in places where there is no power, where there is no money and where there is no great influence. The judiciary is extremely important for Serbia, for several reasons. The judiciary that works is important, among other things, because of Serbia's economic development. I don't know how many opportunities you've had to see, but often EU member states' chambers of commerce advise investors not to invest in Serbia for reasons that the judiciary doesn't work in Serbia. You have several exact examples where the chambers of commerce somehow force investors to invest in Serbia for reasons that, as you know, things are not the most perfect in the case of the judiciary. We all know how small the court budget is... (The People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party are earning. Can you get me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2149	I'm waiting for you to tell me something about a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2150	Can I go on, since... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Can we talk about the agenda point? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2151	Keep going, Comrade Balsha.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2152	If you can allow me to expose myself uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2153	The microphone is working for you and we're waiting for you to say something about the candidate, about the election procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2154	Mr. Martinovic, as a windy story all the time and I can't hear myself screaming from the opposite side.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2155	No one's yelling here. I ask my fellow Members to respect their colleague Bozovic while he has his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2156	We all know how small the court budget is, and that's what's wrong. We all know how small the salaries are and there will be small salaries for the candidates you have proposed, which the Assembly will certainly vote on. What we want is, first of all, dialogue. Dialogue on the functioning of the judiciary, when it comes to independence, when it comes to efficiency, when it comes to things that make up the precondition for our society to be arranged, that investment and investors can safely come and invest in our country. I wouldn't want a large number of candidates to be just because there's a lot of pressure on the judiciary, just because there's little influence on those functions and those positions, because there's no money and there's no power. These are no charges, this is a good opportunity to open one topic about the role of the judiciary in Serbia, about voluntary denial of the executive power, when it comes to pressure on the judiciary, given that we have opened Chapters 23 and 24, and it is certainly more than clear to you. I think you as the High Council of the Judiciary know very well what we face when it comes to pre-accession negotiations. We don't want a dialogue on persons individually, Mr. Chairman. We want a dialogue on their results, we want a dialogue on parameters, a dialogue on criteria. These are things that will make the judiciary independent and effective. Not that anyone will individually evaluate each person, every candidate, or every candidate, but whether we have chosen the commission in the right way, whether the commission has done its job properly. From individuals and individual cases and solutions, we can't finish this job. I think it is very important that the parameters and criteria, and the very conversation that the candidates had with the commission, lead to the fact that the judiciary was something more effective than it was in the previous period. The judiciary and the prosecutor's office, as you know, have come a painful and very painful way when it comes to fighting for independence and what is even more important to fight for credibility. If we divide Serbia into periods before the 1990s, you know that all judges and all prosecutors chose people from one party. From 90 to 2000, judges and prosecutors were elected by people from several parties. After 5 October 2000, both legislative and executive authorities participated, until the High Council of the judiciary was established, until criteria were established, parameters. Only today can the commission do more and better for the judiciary than we could in decades behind us. I think it's very important for that reason that we now take advantage of that opportunity and finally make a much bigger result. All the questions aren't malicious, let me know right away. We are very much in the mood to participate and help you as MPs, such as this home, all issues are from the context of support for an independent, free, impartial and very important, effective judiciary and prosecution, because it is at the end of the pillar of the rule of law. The rule of law is important for citizens to trust in the state. Do citizens today have confidence in their country, if we know that a case that is very important to the public goes on, if we know that some rulings are being brought down, if we know that in a particular case of domestic violence often comes from the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, this violence continues, if we know that there are often some state contracts at the expense of public interest and when it comes to state-larged prosecutors, if we know that in 2016 a case occurred that has been shaken, not only Belgrade, but even the whole of Serbia, and even the OSCE, and it is violence in Savala, where the More Public Prosecutor's Office continues, not only to remain silent, but the police are not able to... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2157	My colleague Bozovic, here is half the time since you speak, I have not heard a single word about candidates and the process of proposing candidates by the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I'm talking about criteria. I haven't even heard you talk about criteria. You speak of your view of the constitutional legal position of the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. That's your look. That's not the point. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You can give me back my time. ) Time will get you as much as you will according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you to start talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2158	Thank you. Don't expect me to know each candidate personally, since neither the commission nor the High Council has met each candidate individually. We don't know, because we didn't interview them, we didn't talk to them. We're talking about committee discussions, expert analyses, criteria, parameters, their results, the assessments they received in their courts. There were a lot of candidates, and it doesn't mean anything to anyone if they just read the biographies. There's always someone who can take on some average at the University of Belgrade Law School, or someone else's, so we can make a joke out of it, but it's not my idea. We have the idea here to talk about the future of our country, about the confidence of citizens in the rule of law in establishing the rule of law. That's the essential question, Mr. Arsic. I know some colleagues don't understand, but I'm sure you do, because you're a man who has long been a member of the People's Parliament and you understand very much how important this segment is for the further development of Serbia and our society. When it comes to the state's larger prosecutors, 22 candidates who are first elected to serve as deputy public prosecutor, criteria and different commissions, it is also one of the issues of a different commission whether all three had the same or different criteria. We can't just judge it based on our biography. There are great young people among them, perhaps I can say with certainty for most of them. What matters is, will we be able to change something into the future? Are we gonna make it through the commission that did the job, do something different and better than we did last time? Will the State's greater prosecutors do their job better when choosing a deputy prosecutor than she did last time? That's what I'm asking because you're often silent institutions, and don't be angry, but you can hear it on samamal. The public prosecutor's office has been silent for six months. The police aren't doing their job. We have a situation on contracts that are not in the public interest, and also, for example, The Republic's public prosecutor has not prepared a procedure for the termination of the contract. For what reason? We assume that's because of the pressure of the executive authority on the judiciary and the prosecution. How can we get around it and how can we defend ourselves, that's a question for all of us sitting here today. We absolutely do not criticise but are constructively asking questions and we are concerned, given everything that is today a daily in Serbia. We still have old cases today for which every citizen of Serbia is guilty. We have situations where first decisions were about pardoning certain criminal groups that are free to walk Serbia today. We don't understand these things. It happened when it came to family settlements that because of their ineffectiveness, this violence was extended and then the families suffered. Since I know it's not a topic, but I also specifically talked about the contract "Belgrade on Water", and there's a Republic Public Prosecutor who had to react and then we're surprised that someone in some EU Chamber of Commerce says - don't come to Serbia or go to Serbia and invest because you're not sure how your money will end up, who will take it, how will it be available, will you have the security to put your capital in a job that you think will bring you some benefit? In the hope that all these things will really be resolved to the end and in the hope that we will succeed together with you that we have a more effective judiciary, a more efficient prosecution. This is the opening of a topic and dialogue exactly what these commissions need to do and what criteria we need to have in order to achieve that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2159	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2160	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear People's MPs, distinguished guests from the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, I must say at the beginning that as far as Dwri is concerned, we support the idea that the judiciary is filled with personnel coming from the prosecution itself and the court itself. It is about young people who carry a judicial system, whose work enables them to make timely draft decisions allowing judges and prosecutors to carry out the work in a safe and timely manner. These people need to be rewarded...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2161	Hey, buddy, just get a little closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2162	These people should be rewarded and must be rewarded, but not only now, but also in the future, and it should become a practice for the Serbian judiciary to develop in such a way, and only in this way can we build a legal state and legal consciousness, not by prescribing decisions and laws that come to us from the West and the EU. So we support one of these principles, one such proposal. As far as specific cases and résumés themselves are concerned, they are correctly written. We have basic biographical data. We've got movement in the service. He had reports of relevant colleges. We've got work scores. We have no reason to suspect that this is about some political influences and political motives. In particular, we have some brilliant biographies from the Supreme Cassation Court, which we must commend and indeed deserve to be elected judges earlier. As far as the Judicial Academy is concerned, it's a good thing there aren't many members of the Judicial Academy and I have to draw the public's attention, especially to the expert public, and to you as representatives of the VSS and the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, and also to the competent Justice Department, I hope that he will look at this video and this address, that the Judicial Academy is an unnecessary institution, even more harmful institution, and if it was once imagined as functional, it's completely unthinkable. He doesn't have any quality program. There's no criteria. It has no quality education, no quality lecturers, and as such it is harmful. The big money was invested in making donations, which is from domestic funds, and it is not that it has not achieved its function but serves as a party, parasitic, clan system that damages the judiciary. It's a good thing there aren't many members of the Judicial Academy in this proposal, and these members of the Judicial Academy are, above all, the people themselves who worked in courts and prosecutors, so that even if they're students, that negative connotation of all of it. As far as the situation in the Serbian judiciary is concerned, we just saw one discussion and a throw about the situation in the judiciary, and I have noted that I have no reason to believe that any of these candidates are there thanks to political belongings. But we must honestly say that, above all, there is a huge impact of policy on the judiciary, and it is a big problem because the judiciary as a branch of government is not independent. It is the influence of political parties, primarily the executive government and it is always dominant. This was the case in the 1990s and 2000-2012. That's right now. About a month ago, a month and a half ago, I asked the prime minister then, now to the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, one question. The question was – what about the 2010 case, I will now give official information, at the SNS Press Conference, and you have the information and means of public information, the SNS website itself, the then member of the SNS Presidency...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2163	Chairman: A colleague, please talk about the candidates proposed by the VSS and the State's Major Prosecutors. Otherwise, you're talking about judges who wrote a constitutional appeal and who were returned by the Constitutional Court's decision. So that story is over. Keep going. Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2164	I'm talking about these judges right now. Not only because of these judges, but also because of these young people. They'll watch, now they can't watch because there's no transmission to RTS, but surely because it's about them looking at the video on the Internet, because it's about their future profession, and I want them to know that they could also defend their independence. According to the SNS, 650 people took SNS membership cards. I'm asking the SNS to say they stopped their membership because these people are being blackmailed by being members of the SNS because it's incompatible with the judge's office. One more thing, it is a public secret that all the presidents of Serbia's courts must be members of the ruling party. Don't pretend to be naive. I'm not saying that only you in the ruling regime influence the judges. There's also foreign embassies. We know that since 2000 in particular, the US Embassy has had a huge impact on the Serbian judiciary. Can you at least agree with me to have an authorised representative of the SNS come out and say, because you also attacked, until then you were another party, and you had some other program and some other ideology, but it doesn't matter. At least stay consistent with that. Zoran Krasic throws. You know, Mr. Krasic, you were with them back then, which party they were. I also hope that these young judges will remain consistent and worthy of the very important work they are doing. I repeat, the judiciary remains silent and there is no reaction. There was a lack of response to the documents we announced that the Supreme Cassation Court and the Second and Third Court have exclusive contracts with one business bank, in this case "Pireus Bank", but not only those courts and not only that bank. Individual prosecutors also have contracts with banks in a business of which they receive unfettered credit prices as "vip" clients. The bank can unilaterally change the terms of these loans. So the Serbia judiciary is not independent. Not only are politicians affected by Serbia's judiciary. We see here in particular that banks can also influence Serbia's judiciary. There are specific cases for both natural persons and certain legal entities, business entities, legal entities that have suffered great damage and a great injustice thanks to these actions. I ask the authorised guests who came to us from these well-known institutions, as well as the competent ministry and the Prime Minister to finally report on the case and solve the case, to protect the citizens because it is a major problem and great will. On this occasion, I would urge future judges and future prosecutors to resist political pressures, that becoming judges have independence in their work does not mean that they are irresponsible in their work. We must really criticise, not to be offended by the prosecutor's office, the work of the prosecutor's office that is most controversial in Serbia, because prosecutors are most vulnerable to political pressures. You're in big trouble and the biggest problem by the executive. Also, you are very inert and you do not act when it is necessary to treat the state authorities or authorities as the defendant and I hope that this will change in the future. It is certainly necessary to seek to establish a system that will give you independence. It must also be made clear that both judges and prosecutors should be responsible for their work. What about a large number of cases where people spent a year or two or three days in custody and were eventually released? What about the large number of ill-written indictments and the large number of abolished convictions? Someone mentioned the abolished verdicts. You know, it's not the Court of Appeal's fault for abolishing the verdicts, it's to see why the quality of the first-degree convictions was bad when the charges were filed. There is a complex problem with the judiciary, and together they must solve it both for the people of the judiciary and for us who are the holders of the legislative authorities. It can't be just a phenomenon of politics. We need to make a general social consensus to solve this very complex and demanding job. This will certainly take time and overcome both this assembly of parliament and these people who are now serving as judicial functions, but if we do not take this job together, it will not come out well. Of course, I don't think that's the most important case in the country, but it's an example of how the state conducts violence, and that's the case of the famous collapse in Savala, but many others don't trust that we can trust the SNS to run the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2165	Slowly, colleague Krasic, we are trying to respect the Rules of Procedure, meaning that the first authorised representatives of the smaller parliamentary groups speak. Now the word has been made by MP Alexander Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2166	Dear guests, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the selection of new judges and new prosecutors is one of the most important discussions we can have in this house. The choice of judges, the choice of prosecutors is sacred in one society, because these moves are very much shaped by our future, we form security, above all legal certainty, we send messages about whether this is a country that can be trusted, or a country in which contracts will be carried out if neither side will implement them, whether it will be a country in which the power of law is stronger than any force in this world, and therefore this procedure, and the choice of judges at all, is very important. A little bit more important than that, perhaps the election of the President of the Constitutional Court, of the Manchester or of some other independent institutions, which greatly shape our future. It is also very important to point out that we do not shape the future here for a year, two advances, this is one from the medium to the long-term design of the future, and this sends a strong message, both through the process itself and the individuals chosen. It is a very important matter that is being decided either tonight or tomorrow, depending on when we finish the debate, and it will in some way send a strong message about what direction we as a society are headed for when it comes to one of the real problems we have in Serbia, which is the problem of the judicial authority. Although we've heard a lot of different sightings about who's guilty or who's not guilty of certain things and we can say that everyone's carrying their share of guilt and everyone's got a lot of good things that he's done in our society, judicial reform is something that, if we're going to objectively say, is a failure that happened during time, really, not old, but old, old, old authorities, because we've had a few more governments in the meantime, and there's something that stands. If I could blame the current majority in the whole process, it's that she didn't do enough to correct the mistakes of some of the predecessors that were made in that unfortunate year 2009, when we didn't do our job very well. And now we're standing in front of a real election of 60 and some superheroes, given the number of candidates who applied. It is logical that there is this large trunk between a large number of candidates and a large number of friends, because in our tradition it has always been known that, at least in Serbia, at a time when it was born as a modern state, a European state, there were three key figures in each place: judge, pop or, as they would say, a priest and a doctor. All the countries of the world are arranged so that the judges of the Supreme Court and even judges in the cities of the greatest reputation, the individuals who are impeccably trusted and when they fail the expectations of their fellow citizens or, God forbid, their people, it is one of the greatest difficulties that can happen to one society. That's why we have to point to one thing that's kind of discouraging us. I'm not saying that this is something that necessarily leads to 62 superheroes not being the best possible candidates, I doubt it could happen to our system of institutions that we've been building all these years, but the fact is that the candidates for judges are ranked by three criteria – grades in studies, length of studies and the assessment of the presumed. I will always say that the rating number three is the most important, because I do assess people from time to time, I think about my associates and I always say – academic achievements are important at first, but practice is much more important later. I'm completely in agreement here. However, if we are to stick to what is very important in a legal system, if we are to prescribe three criteria, then they must be respected consistently to the end. Maybe even better at a given moment if we have a set of criteria, maybe out of these 62 superheroes we pick 50 superheroes in every way and we miss 10 judges of the future who aren't really the best, who are just great, very good, but to choose 60. I believe you've tried really hard to make the best choices based on experience, but we're not going to overstep the procedure. We are from the "Enough Was" Movement, in line with our desire for public information in this society, because we think it is the essence of a successful society, the maximum public in the work of public function, requested the biographies of the people chosen. We analyzed all that stuff a little bit, and we came to some conclusions. First, if we didn't have a ranking list, which I don't think is good, because it's good to have a ranking list and see how they're all ranked, so there just wouldn't be a grain of doubt. We also saw that indeed those candidates who have really "extended" and maximum points were chosen, but that there are some illogicalities based on the analysis of the sample we have done. There are simply some candidates who have, when they add up all three criteria, fewer points than those candidates who have not passed. I'm saying that I really believe that by handling this, you've come to the fact that work is the most important thing, that the most important estimates of people who've been following the development of some people, because that's the essence of everything. So no one better than a mentor and a superior can know what someone's doing in doing their job, what the motivation of that person is, what the quality of that person is, but if we already have three criteria, we have to stick to it as a drunk plate, if we're talking about a country that needs to be a legal country. In essence, it sends a message that we are not quite sure, there remains one small grain of doubt whether or not we are in fact, and now we have missed the opportunity to send an unequivocal message, a clear message, a crystal clear message that reforms in Serbia are being implemented everywhere, at any moment, in every place, and that we can only fix what is the burning problem of Serbia, which has always existed, since the rule of law in Serbia was destroyed in 1945, and that for years we have had no problems with it, we have not been able to establish it, that after 2000 we have had better and worse periods, and it is very important that every time we do something in the area of the judiciary we do not make a single mistake. Today and yesterday, we've had enough debates and we think that every debate here is important when it comes to arguments, not about the characteristics of personal or private MPs, ministers or anyone else, which is a complete detour from the subject. We think it's extremely important, because by choosing judges and prosecutors, we're sending a message about what kind of society this is going to be. We don't send a key message, but we send a solidly large message and we can't have any grains, not a single scruples in our shoes if we want to send a message that Serbia is the place where justice will almost always be available. Now we all know that this is not the case, that it takes time, that sometimes justice is cornered, is not just the case with us of course, but that simply if we want to raise the rule of law and Serbia to do a place that is good for business, in which people are happy to do business, in which people are happy to enter contractual obligations, in which there is no problem in which these obligations are fulfilled in court, if the obligations are broken within a reasonable period, in which the oath of our people to say – in Serbia, the court is something best, a place of justice, a place of quick justice, reasonable justice, in which all sides are equally respected, we must not have those scruples, and those scruples will remain for one small thing, perhaps large, but I am saying that it is not so, that we have paid much more attention to one worldly criteria, and that these two of us have left aside, and they stand as criteria. When investors look at Serbia, they see among other things these subsidy programmes, but they also watch what our judiciary is like. They may not look at each individual judge now, but they will ask consultants, they will ask some other companies that exist in Serbia, they will ask this or that, international organisations that measure the rule of law in Serbia, whether it's the World Bank, whether it's some private organisations that are doing it, whether it's the EU institutions, we'll get scores in the screening of EU accession where we've come from, but simply that kind of thing won't be able to hide, and that's a shame. It is a pity that there should never be a speck of dilemma in Serbia that only the best can come to the most responsible places, because only so can our Serbia go for the better. There is no other way, and we should never, but we just never get into a position where when we want to push this country forward, and I believe that both present and past most wanted to do so, the present one still wants to, but, normally, occasionally, real mistakes, we have to make sure we don't make mistakes where they don't belong. If we already wanted to choose judges based on the experiences that their superiors have, which is not a bad approach at all, especially if it is assessed by three, four, five colleagues, superiors, with great experience, many of which are processes, many of the great decisions that have crucially shaped the fates of people living in their local communities, or have crucially shaped people's lives throughout Serbia's territory, that these are really important things, much more important than what someone received in the third year of their studies at law school. That's a big truth. But then why didn't we put these two criteria aside? We could then discuss whether these two criteria are good or not, but then we shouldn't have considered them at all. I want candidates, who I know will be elected, to justify expectations. It depends, one way or another, on how we look at them, really the people who came up. I say, I still have a grain of doubt. Maybe there were some better ones, maybe someone very good came along, and someone great stayed under the line. But anyway, I know the candidates are good candidates. I want them never to have that little doubt that exists in their lives, it's not some huge doubt now, far from that, because of that playing with the criteria, I want them never to be questioned by their independence and their determination to have Serbia as a country of justice, that Serbia is the country in which institutions rule, that Serbia is the country in which judges are most valued, because it's an extremely important judicial authority, and in our case, it's very much being pushed under the rug, and some other branches of the authorities are being placed, as I say, in a more visible position, etc., etc. So, I really want them to succeed in their jobs, to have their careers proud of Serbia, and I hope that next time life goes on, there will be a new election of prosecutors, not to get into a situation so small, such one thing leads to doubt for the citizens of Serbia that we really haven't chosen superheroes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2167	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2168	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the MP Group of the People's Peasants' Movement of Socialists and the United Peasants' Party will fully support the proposal to elect judges and state prosecutors who are elected for the first time to this post. I sincerely hoped that this discussion would go away so that it would leave no dilemma, no sign of the quality of the choice that is obvious, it can be seen from the biography, it can be seen from the reasoning given. What I personally support, and I see that at least in that section some colleagues agree with my position, and that is very important, that the largest number of those who have come here came from the judiciary and the prosecution, is neither underestimating nor underestimating the value or importance of the Justice Academy. They'll repeat for a moment what I said on the board when it comes to the choice of these people. I really believe that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors had a very difficult but probably very sweet task, which is to choose among the best ones who are the best. I'm sure they haven't made any mistakes, just for all these reasons I've listed. It is incorrect here to leave any trace and any doubt about the impartiality, the qualifications of the people who first worked on these commissions and also the candidates themselves. I didn't want to say this, but it really can't be mentioned, that I really lost track of the moment, which is very much happening to me, listening to a respected colleague, Balša Bozovic, as he talks about the threatened independence of the judiciary. It may not be an accident that the party to which it belongs has just chosen him to share such qualifications here today, because in some time he was underage or not in politics, so perhaps he can only muster up the courage to speak these lies to the citizens of Serbia and speak them here in this House. What is the unquestionable truth, which is that the biggest accident that could ever have been achieved by the judiciary in Serbia was precisely the reform that took place in 2009, when the term of office of 837 judges in the Republic of Serbia ended on 31.12.2009. Is there a worse blow to the independence and independence of the judiciary than was done at the end of 2009 in the history of the Serbian judiciary? Until that moment, no one has ever asked a more brutal question about the independence of the judiciary. What I'm going to say freely right now, knowing many colleagues who stopped being judges of one arrogant, rude, rude behavior, we have worse expressions, but this house doesn't deserve to hear them, 837 of the most quality judges, the most honest judges in Serbia are out of work, there are 837 people who have been invested, in their experience, in their knowledge, in their independence. On the basis of what criteria, Mr. Balsha, did you choose in 2009 that these people were not worthy, that they did not know their jobs and exposed them to the pillar of shame? The Serbian judiciary, from which I do not separate the prosecution when I say that we are clear, still today suffers the consequences of this nonsense that has been done I do not know on whose behalf and whose account it is. That's what you know best. If you had a little honesty, you'd say who forced you to reverse the Serbian judiciary in the next 50 years. Tens of thousands of cases are being dragged through courts today because in 2009 many people stopped their jobs, you created a network of courts that was completely dysfunctional, which had nothing to do with life, had nothing to do with reality. And today you're talking about some kind of influence on the independence of the judiciary?- I'm sorry. Well, how are you not ashamed? But really, honestly, I'm asking you, how are you not ashamed? Do you think you'll repeat one lie a thousand times in this home, on television, in the congregation and wherever you get, and that someone will believe it's true? Well, he won't. Today, the Serbian judiciary is overloaded with cases that are the legacy of the nonsense that a team led by then-Minister Malovic, with Home and all those who helped her with all this. Do you think you can take the rubber now, wipe it out and say, "Puj dots, that's not true"? Now someone's gonna fix something in a year that you've put back centuries? Shame! It's a shame. Why, Mr. Bozovic, when you mention amnesia and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, don't you remember 10 April 2001? If you were a minor, you could read it. The law has amnested 229 prisoners, of which only 16 of the general crime, the rest were all convicted of hostile action against this state. It is an honor to you, both to you and to those who were before you in this House. In 2001. Albin Kurti was amnested, who was sentenced to 15 years in prison and released by the so-called so-called Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica, the great legalist. Where are the Mazreka brothers and 143 members of the Djakovica group? Why didn't you talk about it, if you're talking about a blow to independence and external pressures and influences? Indeed, for you, was the criterion you applied in "Sablja" also in 2009? It looks like it is. It's your manners. That's where you showed it's the only way you treat Serbia's judiciary. If it's not what you think it is, then it shouldn't exist. Dear gentlemen, this is a terrible thing to hear in this assembly. Gentlemen, I hardly ever lose a thread, but I don't know, and I don't understand what kind of dialogue we're talking about here now that someone is going to lead to the functionality and efficiency of the judiciary. The judiciary needs to create conditions and assumptions for its absolute independence. What we're doing today, we're making mistakes so we don't fall into the traps that they fell into in 2009. It is good that not one moment, although they could, both the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, have reached out to a more pragmatic solution that would quickly resolve the accumulated cases, with enormous employment or demands for a huge increase in the number of judges, but I think it will have to come in line, with another assessment, because the people who work in the judiciary are overloaded by this legacy they have and there is not only a certain number of cases that someone has to solve and thus say – the judiciary will be effective. It is obvious that the High Council of the Judiciary has received one new and fresh blood, as well as the State's Major Prosecutors, which this job seems to have resolved to work thoroughly and responsibly, except in the personal part. I think there's a lot of space in the improvement and improvement of the procedural laws on which to work, simplify procedures, relieve judges, relieve prosecutors, at least those banal things. You know, maybe 20 years ago it was just an imaginary thought, but today it's very simple and effective. This is to introduce a recording of the course of the trial both in guilt and in litigation and thus relieve judges and physical effort and enable them to concentrate and be absolutely committed to the work that is most important, which is to determine the undeniable and essential facts and sharing of justice. This would not allow people who work in court as dactylographs to lose their jobs because we would allow a single word that has been said in the courtrooms to be correctly entered, transferred and then used. There is much more that could be simplified in procedural laws. I think we should continue to work on education, both of these new ones, following them, which, hopefully, we'll definitely choose as you suggested, but so will the people who already work in the judiciary. You know, this is necessary because the laws change daily, and these people need to be able to be informed daily and allow them not to have to think about anything else but doing their job, not to be burdened with the existence of as much as possible and feasible in the state of Serbia today. I repeat, with pleasure, in voting day, we will vote for the proposed candidates. I'm sure you've accomplished your mission and I believe that the ones you've chosen and suggested will justify our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2169	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2170	I thank you, Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The previous speaker made a series of charges against me. I think he's not only wrong, he's stuck in some time that's far behind us. I think even in my presentation, I was very precise, and I even said there were mistakes. What do I have to do with it? I've never been to an executive office, in power, in a state or in a city or in a municipality, ever. These people who used to run a justice reform today and aren't in the DS, you know. I said that we had divided this entire history into several parts, a one-party system chosen by one party, and judges and prosecutors, in the 1990s more parties, and judges and prosecutors, from 2000 to here executive and legislative power, until he was educated by the High Council of Justice. And that part of the reform wasn't bad. If there were mistakes in the reform itself – yes, I repeat for the hundredth time. Do I personally agree with what happened? No, I don't. My debate went in the direction of doing today everything necessary to have a much more efficient, much more transparent, much more independent judiciary than we have at this point. I think it's very important that we defend justice and justice because there is no more justice where you defend justice. On the case of Savala, on the case of Beograda on Water, the case falls, on the case of a conviction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2171	Time, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2172	I'm done, last sentence. Once again, I call for dialogue, to achieve our goal together, which is an effective and independent judiciary. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2173	On what grounds, colleague Zivkovic, please? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the town: "Sabela" is mentioned. It's very personal. I recognize myself in that. You recognize yourself. You don't have the right to a replica, really. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: This is your assessment, but you are wrong. Ask for a word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2174	Mr. Bozovic, it's just missing what I predicted you said - that you were a minor at that point. So, it's so transparent that you've been working tonight, and you and the party you're standing in front of, with this, and probably someone with far less experience in law enforcement than I would have predicted, from word to word, like I said, what you're going to say here, you're just missing saying that at some point you were a minor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2175	Here, colleague Bozovic, one more replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2176	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear citizens, distinguished guests, we apologize and end the cycle of replicas, so I'm not sure, you don't know how to count well, I was 26 at the time. I wasn't involved in judicial reform in 2009. I say once again – it has been done in a certain way by some people who continue their political life outside the DS. What's very important is to say there were mistakes then, for the hundredth time, and we're not running away from it. We've had several election cycles where we've submitted accounts. When it comes to my generation, when it comes to Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic and the people who are at the DS Parliament Club, what depends on us today is whether we will open a truly quality dialogue on the subject of criteria, parameters that the commission by the Supreme Council of the judiciary should apply to make the judiciary more independent and efficient. Why are you creeping around so much or sniveling at the mention of Savamala? The public prosecutor's office will no longer take over the investigation procedure by the police that obstructed the procedure. It's a topic of debate, and we just want the prosecution, or the judiciary in general, to be more effective, because citizens have to trust in the state. If citizens don't trust the state, we don't need a job. Then here we are people who are wasting time and people in Serbia and the people who expect us to live better and safer tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2177	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2178	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests from the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, welcome to this high house. The National Assembly, within its responsibilities, holds the choice of judges, public prosecutors who are first elected to the post and it is extremely important that this electoral function, for parliament, is extremely important, we know that the responsible and professional judiciary is the basis of every legally-organised state and the basis for achieving and protecting human and civil rights guaranteed and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The judiciary, unfortunately, has been at the public eye for years, and it's negative. The most common position is that the judiciary is slow, that judicial proceedings take too long and that justice is slow and difficult to reach. This public attitude, but also the vulnerable state of our judiciary, further obliges us to choose the best. In addition to quality laws and legal solutions in the field of justice, this situation deserves another treatment, which is the choice of the best for legal holders. Any opposite solution deepens this situation, costing very expensive citizens of Serbia and the state itself. For the first time, candidates who are elected are undoubtedly selected for the SPS, and in this direction we also give recognition to the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors as legislators, as the quality that is important for our citizens is seen from the biography and the reasons themselves. We are convinced that the decisions we are discussing today are based on professional references and a professional attitude towards the work of all proposed candidates. We believe that the choice of these candidates will make a significant contribution to improving the efficiency of the work of the courts, but also to the availability of justice to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to legal certainty as the essential objective of every legal order. The SPS parliamentary group supports the proposed candidates, and in the voting day we will certainly vote for these candidates with a desire to carry out these young people responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2179	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2180	Dear Chairman, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, we have received your proposals with biographies for the selection of judges and prosecutors, i.e. the deputy prosecutors we have discussed on the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government, according to the Committee President Petar Petrovic. I must say immediately that the SNS in the voting day will support the choice of candidates you have proposed. I don't want to comment on the biographies of the proposed candidates, nor do I want to engage in professional references to them. I believe that this should not be the work of this National Assembly and my personal opinion is that judges should not be elected in the Assembly, whether it is the first choice, as it is now, whether they are elected to permanent functions, which is otherwise not legal, but I really don't think the judges should choose the Assembly as a legislative body. Today, I apologize to all of us for having experienced here from the representatives of one opposition party direct pressure on the judiciary and on the prosecution who suggested that the courts should rule, how prosecutors should sue, what should be done on their orders. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates an independent judiciary and unlike our political opponents who led this country, a few years ago when we had a famous reform in 2010, which we had heard nothing from a speaker who talked all so nicely about the independent judiciary, about outdated cases, about the chaos in the judiciary, which does not stand, because to deal with the judiciary would know, but there is no experience that he could talk about it. But he was probably in the Maldives when the Venice Commission ruled and said what kind of reform we had. A reform that was conducted in political parties, in cafes. Perhaps they could convince his party colleagues, then, I don't know where they are now, Petrovic, Homen, Ristic, headed by Malovic or now they're all washed up, wearing white gloves and now we're talking about an independent judiciary. The same ones that left six judges and prosecutors without their office, who are not re-elected, so by the Constitutional Court's decision, please don't wave your head, I know you don't understand what I'm saying, but I'm asking you to get serious. So, more than 600 judges and prosecutors were returned to work by the Constitutional Court decision because they were illegally left without their permanent function. Why? Because the political party at the time was in power, the DS elected judges at the pubs and chose judges in its political premises, its political parties. Now they don't know anything about it and they're talking about an independent judiciary. And then these judges sued the Republic of Serbia and received the compensation they were entitled to. Where are they now responsible? They're sitting across from us talking about an independent judiciary. They're talking about judicial reform. Come on, let's talk about judicial reform. It is mentioned in the 1990s, but let's also mention in 2010 when the courts were abolished, when the judicial units were invented, when people were out of work, when they were elected, how, similar and not similar. It was a way of choosing judges. And it's very wrong for me to talk about it today, not about the proposed candidates, and I don't want to mess up the work of those candidates. One of the criteria is said to be the assessment of candidates, so whether someone is proposed with a lower average rating at the university or not. I'll just look back on it from personal experience. Someone with an average score of 10 may be an excellent lawyer to teach in college, but maybe he's not a good practitioner, maybe he's not a good lawyer, maybe that's the reason. Maybe there's no eloquence to lead a court dispute, to judge, to interrogate a witness. It doesn't mean grade 10 that someone's a good judge or a lawyer, it just means he's a good graduate lawyer. We need more for the judge and for the lawyer. I don't doubt the choice of proposed candidates, and I don't think any of us should suspect today and dirty this choice as some did when they implemented the poor reform. I hope that the proposed candidates will be worthy to perform their duties, professionally, independently, impartially. I think we need an even bigger number of judges and more prosecutors, that we always have more inflows of cases, we have judges who retire, so this natural outflow, we need young people who are going to judge, to deal with the judiciary. There has been a slight shift in the work of the court, especially in the executive departments, which I would like to stress since the new law on enforcement and security was passed since we have public enforcement officers and it is noticeable that they have a little less to do with judges. But it takes a number of judges to come to us more often with suggestions until they change, some things that we don't choose judges in the National Assembly anyway. I would like the candidates proposed when they are elected to judge within the scheduled deadlines, impartially, to be guided by the principles of the procedure and to have fewer citizens who are called upon to the Protection Act within a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-05-0.u2181	Thank you. Since no one is reporting from the authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, we are now finishing our work. We will continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word.
