ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48151	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Dejan Radenkovic, Djordje Cabarkapa and Vladimir Marinkovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, as well as Ambassador Branimir Filipovic, Deputy Foreign Minister and Ambassador Branko Latinovic, head of the foreign ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Foreign Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the committees responsible, as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of the law, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48152	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear Minister Dacic and his close associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I would like to ask the chairman, Mr Becic, to use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group in the context of this first amendment as I would like to give an opening presentation. The need to pass this law is undeniable because there is no legal basis in the Republic of Serbia for direct application of international restrictive measures. So that's crystal clear. Furthermore, the practice so far to implement these obligations on the basis of the government's proper conclusion has been flawed. So these are athok solutions from case to case, they slow down realisation, but it also does not comply with modern standards in most European countries whose solutions we have studied. And finally, but not by the importance of passing this law, our country will meet one of the very important obligations, relating to negotiating Chapter 31. - foreign security and defence policy and that is where we can join those EU direct measures, and one day when we become a member of the EU, we will apply, of course, the autonomous measures that the EU Council is taking. But it couldn't have been built into the law now. Given what I said, we see the importance of this importance and the reason why the MP group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS has, very carefully, analysed the bill in detail, literally from the title that deals with our first amendment to the last member of the transitional final provision, and this has resulted in the proposal of 14 amendments, and all in order not to criticise the law but to further correct it with the joint forces. I am taking advantage of the opportunity to express my special satisfaction that the promoter has heard of this effort. They've adopted five amendments, so they've been directly adopted in general. As far as one amendment is concerned, it's now a little complicated procedure, we had two-seat corrections. The correction of one attitude was adopted, so there is practically the sixth amendment. What is very important, we talked a lot about it two days ago, we cleared up a dilemma, it can't be directly involved in the EU, but it can be implicitly through international organisations, whose members we are not, but their decisions are in line with our foreign policy priorities. The promoter did so in article one, he added behind international organisations, whose member we are and this, so essentially this amendment was adopted, although not as we suggested at that time. In view of everything I said, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZS will support this law in principle and in particular. Now I'm moving on to this amendment. When we analyzed this law, we did not start to read it ourselves, to analyze it, to look at similar solutions in some European countries. At that point, we thought this was our formulation, so we didn't make it up. We have rewritten this formulation, specifically translated from solutions in some countries, and we have therefore suggested that the law is called on the application of restrictive measures in international relations. We still think that this title is better, but for the sake of truth, we have further examined solutions in all EU member states and other European countries, I am telling the truth for the sake of this law that the proposer gives appears. So we would like it to be our solution, but we cannot be against something that is used in the EU. Therefore, we will support, I say in general, no matter what this amendment has not been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48153	Thank you. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48154	President-in-Office, Vice-President Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 26 parliamentary amendments and two amendments to the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been tabled on this proposal to improve the proposed text. The foreign ministry, as the holder of the work on the drafting of this law and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has given due attention and seriousness to the consideration of each of the proposed amendments. Our intention was to accept all those amendments that give additional quality of this text and further clarify certain issues that are relevant to its application. You have seen that the Government has accepted more than half of the amendments in order to properly valorize your engagement and that this legislative project is practically a common contribution both to the Governments and to the MPs, whether they are in the ruling coalition or to the opposition. Some amendments, due to the procedure or because of this, as it is now said, due to some of the already common formulations used in other legislation, have not been accepted, but surely the essence of these amendments, we have tried to cover it, even because two amendments committees, which have somehow covered what we talked about last time, at least when it comes to EU mentioning. There were no amendments that would essentially change the concept of this law, which is very significant, which is a confirmation of the common denominator we had when it comes to this legislative proposal. I would also like to say and remind myself that this law has only 29 members. Once again I say, we have accepted more than half of the amendments and I think we have shown the government's responsible attitude towards this issue. This is not a topic that should be the subject of some political debates, but is very important for meeting our country's obligations. Therefore, I do not think there is a great need to explain every amendment, but I will say about this amendment, which was proposed by MP Stojadinovic, not only by him, but by a whole group of MPs from the parliamentary group headed by Boris Tadic, that title itself, we are of the opinion that the term - international restrictive measures, that it is nevertheless one more accepted, generally accepted in some way a term for this area and that it is used in the legislation of other countries. In essence, this has a similar meaning, restrictive measures or restrictive measures, so that this amendment is not accepted for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48155	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Here you go, Mr Stoimirovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48156	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll just take a moment. I am also glad that the promoter had heard and that he accepted a lot of, or more than half of these amendments, and as far as the specific amendment to the name of this law is concerned, I think that the promoters need to understand that yet this title, or the name of the law as the promoter has given, is much simpler, it sounds much better for the ear, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that our constant desire to accept someone else's, somehow translate and put it here has become, in some sense, modern. I think we should try as hard as we can to be original and use our words and less foreign words. I believe that the applicants of the amendment will have no objection as did a colleague who explained this amendment, and I think it's perfectly fine that their proposal has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48157	Thank you, Mr Stoimirovich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the previous speaker, Mr. Ljubisha, has already explained what I wanted to say. Restriction seems to me to be the word of Latin origin. So, I don't defend MP groups from using foreign words, but I think the government is right to stick to our beautiful dictionary, our beautiful language, which is borrowed by both the surrounding states and the surrounding nations, and I believe that the word is "limit" better than "restriction", which is Latin and has a double meaning. It also means "restriction and narrowing" etc. and that is why I support the Government in order for our letter, our language, to be preserved and that this is also happening in writing the bill, or in writing corrections when adopting these amendments. I believe, like Professor Ljubisha, that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48159	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48160	Ladies and gentlemen, not just with this amendment, when it comes to the title of the law, I think it's a few more times that it's a problem, there's one, I think, more serious problem. The problem is inconsistencies. If you suggest changing the title of the law, you should still follow that termology throughout the law, it would be more serious. You can't just translate restrictive measures into restrictive measures in the title of the law, but in the first, second, third, fourth member, you can talk about international restrictive measures. So, the whole law is so well-conceived that what's in the title is followed by the text of the law and in almost all the members are mentioned are measures of limitations, so the amendment promoter is kind of inconsistencies and incomplete, because in other members of the law he should have predicted and suggested that these terms change. That would be, I'd say, more consistent, a little more serious, because this way, if this amendment were accepted, I don't think the text of the law itself would fit the title of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48161	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovi, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blažja Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48162	Dear Mr. Becic, dear Minister Dacic, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to hear a little more and more carefully, or try to understand what the idea of the proposal is. I have heard a lot of criticism here about this first amendment, and it was crystal clear that the solution offered by the promoter and what we have offered present in some countries' solutions more or less, is not important, as well as in the expert literature of international relations and international policy. Let me say it one more time, and the other solution is okay. In some countries, this is what the promoter gives, in other countries of our own, but both solutions are fine. If we go to language, for the sake of the words – restrictions, I admit that a better solution to the proposal is, although the director of a public enterprise does not mind saying that there will be no power restrictions, not electricity. So, I stood up for it, and I always advocate using Serbian, but sometimes a word goes through in translation, so I don't think there's a need to spread the discussion about this. The title is good and it is in many EU countries. As for the amendments to this article, I am again taking the opportunity to thank the promoters for having heard that they have little correction of Article 1 and to add an implicit EU through organisations whose members we are not, but the measures, decisions they make, are in line with our foreign policy priorities. We're satisfied with this formulation. The only way was to make it an amendment to the board. I thank you once again, and I think this is one of the amendments that essentially corrects this law, which was also the proposal's drive, because if you look at the reasoning of the law, this is quite explicitly well given in an explanation, taxively, from the UN Security Council through the OSCE to an organisation whose members we are not, but we follow their decisions, measures or measures, of course and those we follow, and others in line with our priorities. So I repeat once again, we will vote for this amendment and for the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48163	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48164	As I said earlier, for the writer of this bill, it was not at all disputed that this text should be applied and that this text also applies to EU measures. However, there is something that no legislator will accept, which is that we assume the obligations of non-member organisations. In this respect, it is also legally impossible to say that the same relationship with the EU will be with the UN, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and other organisations whose members we are. Efforts to find an appropriate solution, since this was also discussed, were discussed in the preparation of this law, two amendments that were similar to those of SDS and DS MPs. We have decided that the best solution is that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is basically the next amendment, which will be here, is to resolve this issue through the amendment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which practically adds to the current text what I was now talking about, so we have practically accepted what is proposed. So, the current amendment text, so I don't re-apply after the Committee's amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48165	You must, Mr. Minister, so you must plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48166	Okay. So we did not accept this amendment, as did this last amendment of the DS MPs, but this issue was resolved by the amendment of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48167	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it very touching when I read amendments sometimes, that is, when I read amendments and when I come across some solutions that remind me of some of the solutions that the party of the former regime used when it was in power. With this amendment, they literally asked us to comply unconditionally with EU decisions, so, say, five, six, seven years before joining the EU. They have already entered the EU with their brains. I remember the moving speeches in 2002, 2003, that we would join the EU in 2007. Most likely, some of my colleagues from the former regime's parties still remember those words and believe we are already in the EU, so their acts should apply to restrictions, i.e. abolishing and introducing restrictive measures in international policy. That would be very devastating for Serbia right now, and maybe that's what they want. I'm not sure our political equalists want what all citizens want, which is what we want ourselves. Maybe their currency - the worse, the better. I can't know that, but from experience, I know that when they negotiated the content of the SAA, I immediately say that the SAA as an SAA, as a signature, is not controversial, but the internal content is very controversial, which they themselves acknowledge, because, for example, the drop in customs duties in the agreement predicted 2013, an absolute drop in customs duties, which now threatens agricultural production and the food industry. Such content in the SAA has not been made by any accession member, i.e., such solutions from an opportunity correspond to the year of entry into the EU, and not seven, eight or nine years earlier, which brings you to the problem of the agricultural and food industry, and then a legitimate question arises – which we will enter the EU if we think in the way they think. Further sanctions between the EU and Russia have complicated our case, so now the surplus of these food goods and agricultural products is looking for cracks and looking for a market and then entering our market, these are highly subsidized agricultural products and food products that have seven or eight times as much subsidies and incentives as our country has. Then the same party representatives of the former regime and officials, who are still in the government of the RS, when we introduce the levies, with an attempt to protect domestic agriculture and the food industry, then run to Davenport, Janmat and whoever, to complain that we have introduced the levies in an attempt to protect the rest of the agricultural production, and we can only introduce the levies when our agricultural production is disrupted on the market. That's why it's touching for me, especially when we have them looking for and collecting signatures to crash the SAA, that is. The agreement signed with 27 EU members now seems to me with 28, so it is almost impossible to change it, and our Constitution is defending a referendum on international agreements. So, they are now asking that what they have agreed no longer applies, and even a lie is that in terms of protection from the tycoon, it is precisely from those people who were part of the party of the former regime, or their godfathers, friends, who spoke of the occasion that -- stand up, galley of the Emperor, to pass our yachts. That's why it's touching for me and I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48169	Please, Mr. Risticevic, can you go back to this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48170	... These solutions, which they propose, to apply the measures and acts of the organisation in which we did not approach, therefore, seem to me to be what happened in 2008, when the content of the SAA which is causing irreparable and huge damage to our agriculture and food industry was agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48171	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48172	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, so, I don't know, to repeat it again, as if we needed a translator from the Serbian to Serbian. Is the priority, the external political priority of the current government of the EU integration of Serbia, the negotiations, and last night, the prime minister said that in 2019, 2020, we practically end everything and then remains on others to decide whether we will be a member. So it's nothing controversial, and the idea wasn't that we were courting the EU, that we were inserting something we didn't need. A colleague, Senic, explicitly said yesterday, I repeat the position of our party and the coalition. We're against imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation. I don't think that should be repeated. After all, not all EU members have imposed sanctions either. There have been other cases when Serbia did not introduce these restrictive measures, which was a recommendation, i.e. the EU's decision. So, things are crystal clear, we're satisfied that this issue is resolved by the amendment committee, there's nothing further to comment on, but some other things require. Surely, the SAA is bad, there is no dilemma, but I will inform you that one member country, that is Poland, fellow ambassadors from Poland, from the ministry of the country, has signed much worse than us, and where is Poland now? Poland has not felt the crisis, so to speak, Poland has growth in GDP constantly, huge growth. What's the problem here? The problem is, and in theory it is known, who reads something about the EU, any SAA, and the worst SAA is good if the period of entry is relatively short. Unfortunately, we have been burdened by other problems, Pristina, the region, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48173	Please, Mr. Stojadinovic, you must return to the amendment. You can't replicate Mr. Risticevic, because I warned him that he had to talk about the amendment, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48174	No, I'm talking about the European Union, please. I'm talking about the European Union...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48175	You can't, Mr. Stojadinovic. At this point, you can only talk about the amendment that is under discussion. I understand, and I've allowed enough, but please don't go far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48176	I'll do it again. If you'll excuse me, just one more conclusion to repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48178	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the idea was to include the EU here in some way. That's what the promoter did, and we're satisfied. So there's no point in spreading the discussion now who signed what and when. We're talking about the current bill. We are satisfied with the law in general and how the promoter responded to our amendments. Once again, thank you, we are pleased with this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48179	I thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't need a Serbian translation into Serbian. Especially if someone in the name of the law puts a Latin word. As far as the amendments are concerned, it would be acceptable for me to be an EU member. I'm talking about the amendment we got, and I'm not talking about the Committee amendment. I'm talking about the amendment of the motionary. The promoter, it is an electoral list, i.e. part of the electoral list whose coalition partners are currently seeking the collapse of the SAA. This is where Poland was mentioned. Poland has not yet allowed the sale of real estate until today, and it may have entered the EU 10 years ago, I cannot remember exactly whether it was in 2003, and we predicted it six, seven years ago. It's not us, it's them. So Poland couldn't sign a worse SAA than we could. It is unequivocally unequivocally that the former regime's parties agreed on agriculture and real estate sales on a very bad SAA, and now they want to attribute that error to us. For God's sake, they are now fighting against what they themselves have produced. Finally, I didn't say I was against the EU. There's a big difference between me and them. They want to join the EU without production, and I want to enter with production. I would like to join the EU, and some would appear to have crawled into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48181	Thank you. Do you want the amendment, Mr. Djurishich? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48182	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the text of the amendment that we have proposed is part of the policy that the Social Democratic Party advocates, which is the faster EU accession. Our policy has been consistent since the very beginning of politics, the last 25 years have been the same. Those who challenge our ideas today and claim to be a declarative advocate for the EU, all do is do so today and do not happen, as they have done all previous years. If in 2002, all those who are talking about the EU here today were for the EU, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, that there were no arrests when the government's representatives returned with the signing of this SAA in 2008, that there were no protests when the state ended its international commitment to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which was a prerequisite to decommission the Eurointegration process, perhaps we would be part of the EU too today. Those who have been against all these years, I think they have the least right to talk about what we are not part of the EU today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48183	Mr. Djurishic, let's get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48184	We fought for it for 25 years and we'll keep fighting. We are pleased to have the support of other fellow MPs now. This amendment has been our intention to make more clear what is the idea of this law, which is that the Republic of Serbia in international relations is also following international measures and recommendations from the EU, more clearly pointed out by this law. We are aware that at this point this solution could not have passed in the Serbian parliament. We welcome the solution that will, hopefully, be adopted through the adoption of the Committee's amendments and the application of this law in the future, but we are ready and we do not want to feel the demagogue stories that are due to Serbia today at this stage of negotiations with the EU. Because for four years, this government hasn't been able to open any chapters practically and move us off that path... . (Zoran Babic, from the place: How is it not? ) Practically, I speak practically because two chapters have been opened... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48185	Please, Mr. Djurishich, don't do this. First, it is clear which government, which prime minister has opened chapters. So let's not talk about what's been done for 20 years and what's been done 10 years ago. Let's stop at this and get back to the amendments, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Please use the microphone exclusion measure for other MPs, not just for me. When you went too far, Mr. Djurishich. I tolerated you from saying something that had nothing to do with this amendment, as I tolerated both Mr. Stojadinović and Mr. Risticevic, because I thought... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You released him for six minutes. I also reminded Mr. Risticevic, but you, Mr. Djurisic, have exaggerated. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Yes, after six minutes.) I beg you now, and Mr. Stojadinovic, to stop at this and not discuss it this way. Thank you. Article 1 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Foreign Affairs Committee. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48186	I've talked about it before, but since it is, I should say officially that this amendment has been proposed in accordance with the agreements we have reached. We are looking for the best solution for possible introduction, application or elimination of measures to restrict international organisations where Serbia is not a member, in case it is in the foreign policy interest of Serbia. Now, by the way, let me mention the difference between this formulation and these amendments that we have not accepted, amendments SDS and DS. Serbia for those organisations in which it is a member is meant to have an obligation to implement all decisions of those organisations. In the EU, however, Serbia is not a member. This formulation, proposed by the Committee, allows Serbia to apply these measures only if it agrees. So not all the measures and decisions the EU makes. It practically means next. Serbia, as you know, had more than 90% in years before the Russian-Ukrainian problem, and I think we even had 94-95% compliance with EU foreign, defence and security policy measures. But when Russia came to the agenda and Ukraine, Serbia did not join the restrictive measures the EU imposed against Russia. That's why the percentage is at 60% or 70%. Of course, as I was saying in the principle debate, our foreign policy position is such that we have to take care of our strategic goals. One is EU membership, and another is our goal certainly to protect our national and national interests. Accordingly, this amendment by the Committee means that Serbia will apply those measures it agrees with. Since we did not agree with the restrictive measures of the EU towards Russia or some other countries that are friendly to us, we do not have the obligation to apply these measures. That is, to be precise, in line with European standards, as we are in the accession phase, or negotiations, it is regulated by Chapter 31 relating to foreign, security and defence policy, we have an obligation to gradually comply with the EU until the moment of EU entry. This means that in the coming years it will be a process that will last, and this chapter is not yet open. So I think that this amendment is much better than these two amendments that have been tabled, because they mean the previous amendments that we have rejected, they mean that we should accept everything that the European Union brings, and we have no right, we are not a member, to present our opinion. Since we had no other solution to how to do this, then that's what the Foreign Affairs Committee suggested. As far as the Serbian government is concerned, as a proposing, we accept this amendment to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48187	I would like to thank the first Deputy Prime Minister. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that the Government's representative has accepted the amendment and I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanović and Jovan Markovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted to the People's Sentinel by Dubravka Filipovski. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Dr. Blažja Bradic. The word is from the academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go, Mr. Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48188	Dear Mr. Becic, dear Minister Dacic and his associates, you see, appreciating the role and importance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the holder of the legislative and constitutional authority in our country, we felt it would be good, not saying that it is necessary to add one additional position to this article, to inform the committee responsible of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Committee on Foreign Affairs, through the decisions set out in paragraphs 1 and 3. I think that would be good, but it's not a tragedy if this doesn't turn on, and in that sense this significantly doesn't disrupt the quality of the legal solution, and in any case, we're going to vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48189	I thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48190	Let me just add, because of MPs who may not be aware of the text of the law and the public, they don't turn out to be some kind of secret. No, just the other way around. This Article 6 states that the decisions on the application of the measures introduced are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, if they are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", we believe it is entirely excessive that the Government is now specifically notifying the committee in charge, because the committee should otherwise discuss reports on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose part will certainly be this part of our activity. Another thing would be if those measures weren't published in public, so now we have to let you know. They will be made public. We do not have another way of publishing, as parliament and as government, but in "The Official Messenger". I think it's the most transparent thing we can have as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this amendment of yours has not been accepted, because we believe that this is a more cellular solution that stands in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48191	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Dr. Blažja Bradic. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go, Mr. Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48192	Without a desire to deepen my differences and lead to possible replication, just to say briefly - it is normal that the Government rejected this amendment because it did not adopt an amendment to the 1st member, but since the government extended the list to the United Nations Security Council and the OSCE, the international organisations to which this applies, the technical harmonisation with that member was done, so that this amendment was deplaced, since no amendment to the 1st member was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48193	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go, Mr. Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48194	Thank you very much, Mr. Becic. Dear ministers with associates, we have understood the idea of the promoter, but obviously there was not enough time or idea of an additional how to define more precisely what the working group means, who educates her, which is its structure, etc. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. By the way, our parliamentary group, as you know, the amendments "is deleted" are not relevant. The only reason for this is that it has not been defined enough, but in most European Union countries an absolute and unequivocal foreign ministry, or as it is called, for European affairs, somewhere foreign affairs and the European Union, deals with these matters. The corresponding directorates are doing this by automatism, they're qualified. I think that our Ministry, which has extraordinary infrastructure, personnel, and also organizations, is such that it covers this multilateral, can successfully do so and be the bearer of these activities, and the working group pro-forms to form from representatives, given what the measures are, to include other ministries, representatives of other agencies and so forth. I think the Foreign Ministry will be able, regardless of some indetermination, to Handel this, as young people like to say, in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48195	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go, Mr. Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48196	I'm not an expert in general practice that I can discuss everything and that I know everything, but we've done our consultations, so our professional services, my advisor, who's otherwise a kind of lawyer, has conducted consultations and experts have said it's more correct to be property rights than property powers. Now, that's the only reason we've submitted this amendment, and I don't think the law will significantly violate this definition. So I know what the biggest problem was for the promoter in this amendment, property rights, original and derivative. It's a little undefined so that probably and it was one of the problems and the reasons why the amendment wasn't accepted, but I'm saying, even though this remains what it was like, I don't think it's going to be a problem, although it could have been accepted, even the Committee could have, without this original and derivatives to accept, but what it is, I don't think this is a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48197	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48198	I thank the chairman. Just from the point of view of the profession, given that the amendment's proposal has been called to the profession, I would point to something that is in principle legal in terms of the word synonym. Their powers fall under property rights. Property powers as an attribute of property rights, which is an absolute right, implies authority and every part of property rights, so that property powers and property rights are absolutely coincided. In this direction absolutely there is absolutely no single reason for us to at least on the legal side to make corrections, that is to say, in view of the fact that property law is meant as a right that absolute categories do not have a greater right than that. Similarly, the authority of property law implies the same thing. So absolutely no distinction is made that these two legal categories, these two legal institutes are eliminated, or each other to eliminate, they actually produce one, and therefore there's no need to change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48199	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48200	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to include this hidden electronic device for mathematical operations with these two minutes on which I have the right to explain this amendment to me and those five minutes to which I have the right to have a general amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48201	I'd love to, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48202	Now, that, so that I can announce to Minister Dacic in seven minutes one vision of the contents of this amendment and, of course, since Mr Dacic is a foreign minister of some direction about our foreign policy, and above all, Mr Becic, to direct other MPs to what the government has accepted when we talk about our amendments. People's MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 that you have made it very precise here and announced that the amendment is, gentlemen, one of the three amendments that we have submitted to this bill. Dear gentlemen, all three amendments have been accepted. Minister Dacic, this has not happened, this is the first time that we MPs of the New Party have had a hundred percent effect on accepting the amendments. So, so far, that's not, bravo, of course, general support for that, there's no dilemma at all. I mean, honored gentlemen, here is Mr. Giric, and Mr. Stojmirović and all the gentlemen who are interested in this debate, that this is the consequence of the decision of Minister Dacic, and I listened to him here carefully in the principle debate, that the final word on amendments will leave the profession. Since Mr Dacic has given the final word to both this amendment and all amendments the profession, which is the consequence of the honored gentlemen, that all amendments of us Members of the New Party have been accepted. It means, gentlemen, that it would be very good for all our citizens here that the profession always gives the final word. Unfortunately, it was not a practice in this assembly of the National Assembly, and apparently this bill and our amendment debate today are. Of course, we are in total, to inform Minister Dacic, who was not a frequent guest in this assembly of the National Assembly and certainly has no such information, we have submitted to Dacic in a year and nine months, we, the MPs of the New Party, and to hear the MPs, 1,950 amendments, of which these three accepted amendments totalled 187 amendments of us to the People's MPs of the New Party. Minister Dacic, to hear this information now, when these figures are transferred to percentages, that means that we New Party MPs have 9.6% accepted amendments, which according to certain analogies which some of us from the Faculty of Political Sciences, for example, apply here, amounts to Minister Dacic 9.6% of the support of citizens to the New Foreigner. Another round of applause, gentlemen, is general support for that. Minister Dacic, for me this means that the New Party has made the most of this time of a dedicated, hard work in this year and nine months in this National Assembly to show the citizens of our Republic how one system of ideas, beliefs, values and opinions should be advocated in our National Assembly. Our starting position, Minister Dacic, in these extraordinary parliamentary elections, which will appear at the end of April, is 9.6% and we stand alone. Minister Dacic, only the New Party, and if we now imagine one situation, here is Mr Jovan Markovic of the DS, if we now imagine making an alliance with DS, Minister Dacic, then 30% we win. One more thing to say to Minister Dacic, 9.6% of me it seems just as much as the SPS has as a starting position or to say I did, which now suggests Mr. Zivkovic, 9.6% by the end of this calls 10%. Of course, gentlemen, it is very important that this amendment debate, which has been accepted on Article 13 reminding Minister Dacic of the importance of formalising our country's foreign policy orientation. I listened to your answer to this question of mine, and in the principle debate, you said so – well, well, maybe it's not a strategy of the kind of document that should come here, but it's very important to open up in the Assembly as one topic, one session through discussion to discuss the current things. Well, honored gentlemen, if we have a constant saying here that there is no representative of any party that is not for Serbia to become a full member of the EU, why, gentlemen, to unformize and the next thing to do, Mr Dacic, that, in meeting with the citizens of each other here, it is constantly potential that the highest national interest of the citizens of our Republic and of our country to make Serbia a full member of the EU, and not, Minister Dacic, as it often happens to be said on the side, we want there, and then to add -- but at the same time we need to protect our national interests. Well, gentlemen, let's make sure that we do it precisely, here in the stenogram of our sessions, that it's a top-notch national interest for us to have full membership in the EU, to make a commitment here that we will all work together in accordance with such a defined national interest, not to leave room for various combinations, for various reflections on how the geopolitical situation will change, how we, as some of the world's borders, are struck here by winds from the east, the west, the north, the south. Well, it's not like that, gentlemen. Let's agree that when it comes to foreign policy, we define our top national interest with the knowledge that this will ensure a better life for our citizens in our country. I think Minister Dacic would make it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48203	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. According to your logic, then, the SNS doesn't need to go to elections at all, but at the beginning there are 90 and some percent of the amendments accepted, but I still congratulate you for realizing at the end of this call that it's not worth putting up with hundreds of amendments, but several meaningful amendments, and that's accepted. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48204	Mr. Dacic, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am one of the MPs here with a little longer internship in the National Assembly. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Too long. ) I believe that for those who earn and say – too long; I believe that they have been on the political scene of Serbia for too long and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have told them more than once, and I am one of the people who know the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly because of the job I do very well. I know Tuesday and Thursday are the days when MPs ask parliamentary questions. However, Mr. Becic. Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48205	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48206	I didn't know, and here you have the deputy secretary, so let me know, I didn't know Wednesday was a joke day at the National Assembly. I didn't know Wednesday was a joke and joke day in the National Assembly, but I'll accept...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48207	But you have to admit you've had a good laugh at this joke, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48208	Well, you know, when someone laughs and somebody's funny, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they listen to the previous speaker, they're probably crying. But I will accept this funny, comical spirit, which the previous speaker has made, so since the elections, the parliamentary elections are very certain in the next period, are not called, but I believe that they will be in the coming weeks and will be called, then I consider this acceptance of the amendments as a sort of a farewell acceptance of the amendments, forgiving in the sense that some MPs, among them also believe that the amendments, will probably see this National Assembly only on the outside, when they pass here on the street in front of the House of the National Assembly, when they come to the Square of Nikola Pasic, or when they look at the meetings of the next 11th National Assembly, when they observe it through the transfer of RTS. So, I take this acceptance of the amendments as one farewell by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the most qualitative, most capable government that has managed to make important steps on our European path, but also an important reform of our society, and that forgiveness with those who are famous, now famous, but not for the good, but for the bad, famous amendments "delegate", tried such a reform process and stopped. However, I will not talk about it either, nor will the amendment promoters talk about it, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will speak about it in fair and democratic elections, in elections organised under electoral legislation, adopted by the former regime, and what some say, I see in the printed and electronic media that there will be no idea what kind of theft in the elections, so is it possible that the former regime has been making such laws and preparing or stealing. It's a kind of confession, very bad things you've done in the past. But what someone here in this room is saying, looking at their projection in the mirror, doesn't necessarily mean and does not mean that so are all the other political actors on the political scene of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48209	Please, Mr. Granny, just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48210	And the amendment has been accepted. Of course, the congregation majority will support it, of course, to become an integral part of the bill's proposal, but I consider it to be a kind of farewell from the promoter who will, I'm sure, follow this National Assembly and future sessions over the TV screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48211	Thank you. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48212	Of course there are always some mistakes in law preparation and I want you to know what this is about, Mr Pavicevic is with the MP, Mr Zivkovic, they have submitted three amendments. All three amendments relate to correcting printing errors or formulating errors. I'll tell you what's going on. When it comes to this article, the first amendment, the text reads "the international restrictive measure is implemented". Their amendment is ‘implemented’. The second amendment refers to the fact that the data on natural persons in the records are kept in accordance with the regulations to be regulated, the text of the law reads as "edits protection", and the amendment is "edits protection". The third amendment concerns, just to see, that "the natural and legal person on the consolidated list can apply through the Ministry." There was a comma behind the Ministry, and the amendment was to throw out the decimal. We accepted those amendments after a long time of thinking, but I want to thank you for suggesting it, because it's all our fault that we wrote this because we didn't pay attention. Therefore, if you are not in parliament next time, I will certainly hire Mr Pavicevic to read all these laws, because it is very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48213	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: I answer the word. I'm the promoter. ) The promoter is Mr. Pavicevic and you are the promoter, yes, you may have the advantage of using your five minutes. Excuse me, Mr. Milicevic, Mr. Zivkovic is asking for the right to take precedence as an amendment promoter. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48214	Thank you, I'm using five minutes. I will try to mention a word about the amendment since no one mentioned it after Mr Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48215	You must be honest to say that neither is Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48216	Yeah, he said the number and he gave both the statistics and the evaluation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48217	Number of amendments accepted, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48218	And the evaluation and all that and let's first the Deputy Prime Minister about who he was when he was in parliament, who was going out and who was going into parliament. Let's at least let's get those of us who've been here for twenty-something years get up in front of this bizarre thing we hear sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48219	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, I'm only asking you to choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48220	I don't know where you've identified yourself, I'm talking about Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48221	I recognized myself, so let's be that I recognized myself, because I don't want you to say something like that to other MPs. Anything you wish in your statement to offend you, I would ask you to direct only the chairman, not the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48222	No, I'm talking to the Deputy Prime Minister. So I'm talking to him. And the word “bizarism ” is not offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48223	It's only a shame, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48224	What you think is your problem. The word "bizarity" is not an ugly word, it is one definition of something that is happening. So there were a lot of MPs in this building, the authorities were changing, the opposition changed, and this building should be the top of some parliamentary state government in this country, so the people sitting in it would make it, and I would ask at least the MPs who have this, let me say, two-million-dollar experience, and that means they started their career in the 1990s, they're still here, that at least in their discussions they're holding that one, which modern analysts would say, level. As far as the law itself is concerned, the law is good. I'm surprised that at the end of the term, we can only reach one law that will clearly and publicly define our obligations to something called, Colloquial, international sanctions. But whenever, it's good that it happened now. The remarks on our amendments, Mr Pavicevic and mine, which fix the text, are unfounded. We fix the text in various ways. The best amendments are "wipe out", because we suggest that part of some law or the whole law is disastrous and that there is no help and that it is best to be withdrawn from the procedure or not to be signed by the president of the state, as we had at least in one case. It is the president of the state, the election of the parliamentary majority, in that place, that has at least once respected our amendments and refused to sign a law that should have allowed for the theft of something little left on Dedinj from public buildings. There have been other places where the amendments "wipe up" have been accepted, for example by the NBS. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Is this a topic? It's the subject, and only one who knows how to understand the subject will get into this hermetical story of mine. As far as the election is concerned, and since I've heard the fear of some MPs being caught in an election building, I guarantee you that if that happens by accident, I repeat, if that happens, you will be caught. I'm an expert on that. I did it in 1996 and 1997, and in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48225	Mr. Zivkovic, I ask you to return to the topic and speak of the proposed amendment, which has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48226	I'll be back on the subject, of course. The international measure of restrictions shall be implemented on means of ownership, state or otherwise used by the entity to which the measure is applied. It's clear as day, Article 13. But these international sanctions do not exclude domestic sanctions, which can be both political and criminal. It's a good thing some people called. It's a good thing there's been an entire establishment since my statement yesterday about when they...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48227	Mr. Zivkovic, please, you may think that your statement is important, but we also have a lot of people we see here who think that your statement that you made is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48228	And why do you have the right to come with me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48229	So I'm asking you to get back on the subject. Thank you. Time's up. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You're out of time, that's true. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48230	Dear Mr. Vice President, article 107 has been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly, because the predecessor insulted MP Zoran Babic, saying that the sacrament does not mean something bad. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Come and see! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48231	Please, Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48232	I remind him, and since he came out of the gym, and academic congratulation, that sablast means freak and scrawny, the "Serbian Dictionary" book of four 597 pages, 1973. I ask that, according to members 107 and 108 and 109, the most severe punishment of the previous speaker, because he has greatly offended our president of Parliament's group of MPs, Zoran Babic, and for no reason whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48233	Mr. Atlagic, home education is brought from home and there is no punishment that can change that. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48234	I thank Mr. Becic and you and my esteemed colleague, Professor Mark Atlagic. I would add that he is bizarre, strange, kinky, but well, that I will add to a low insult that I will endure and carry along with my fellow Members and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, because when they cannot tell you – you stole on vineyards, you stole, 500,000 euros you took and kidnapped from these citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as Mr. Zivkovic did, then all you have is to insult those people on the other side. It's not the first time, and I believe that among the last, when Mr. Zivkovic here called us both cattle and scum and all kinds of ugly names. We will patiently and patiently endure all this. If someone in Serbia will live better than such an insult, it's okay, I accept, we'll wear such things. But if your only program is – we hate Vucic, we hate SNS, we will lie and insult, we will humiliate, we will do anything and anything to stop Serbia on the reform course, on the reform path, we will stop Serbia on the way to becoming a decent, normal, orderly state, with such a platform and to go before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have to tell them what you want, to tell them that you want to stop a normal life in Serbia, that you want instability, unlike this government of the Republic of Serbia, which has worked only and exclusively on stability, to tell them that you want to return everything you used, all the benefits of the authorities you used. No matter how strangely those who are acting at this point say, do I, yes, because you support such a policy, because you just applauded when your colleague and your party chief insulted other MPs. Is that politics, are those words for the sanctuary of Serbian democracy? Are those words for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Are those words from which someone in Serbia will live better? No, they're not. What about all those things you've been putting in over the past few months? What about those threats that Bojana Pajtic and those unfortunate graphics in Novi Sad, which the SNS first condemned? Who wrote them? Member of the DS. What about the listening affair? It turned out to be incorrect. What about the affair that one of Lydia Widowsky asked for any use, any money? And Nikola Petrovic and everyone else were ready to go to the polygraph, everyone except Bojan Pajtic and you, who spoke so highly of it all. Do we have Lydia Widow's testimony that no one asked her for anything, no one expected her to do anything, or talked to those people? Do you have the cheek and the honor to say once – forgive all the lies, all the insults We have given you? What about that unfortunate display of SNS in one and a few nights in "Arena"? What did you do, what kind of campaign did you run over the social network, and how did you deceive people in Serbia? Which one of you lies is going to get better, and what's the point of those lies? Is the goal of defeating the SNS? Well, go to fair democratic elections, to election by election laws that you've passed. Look at the truth in your eyes once. Let's face our views, oppose policies, influence, what you've done, and what we've done in these two years. How much more insulting? Has anyone in the SNS said anything ugly in the past two years, thrown it away, let alone at the assembly speaker, said and insulted? No, he didn't, and even if he did, he'd be sanctioned, because we're ready for something like that. We'll be ready on Friday to have a difficult session here at the National Assembly, because responsibility is above all. And that separates us from you, the responsibility contrary to political boast, the political haughtiness that has brought millions to you alone, which has brought to you only the subsidized Fruskogore vineyards and now the subsidized Fruskogore vineyards are ready here to tell someone and the instructions of the harshest and lowest insult. And you applaud it, you with academic congratulation, shame on you. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48235	Please, let us conclude this amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48236	And someone who has stuck their hand in the pocket of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will now be the one, I guess, because of the experience in thefts, to prevent other thefts. When was the bear guarding the honey? Never. We are always ready to face attitudes, we are always ready to accept a better solution, we are always ready for dialogue, but there is no dialogue. When there's an arm on the one hand for a deal, for the better of our society, and on the other hand you get a slap, who's better there? The one who's ready for dialogue or the one who's willing to lie, the slap, the slap? I will proudly now, in addition to the insults that were sent to me earlier, both to me and to my colleagues and colleagues, continue to hold my hand in the air because I am here to, after all, be a sack for hitting Zoran Zivkovic, to be the target and goal of your political hatred. Yes, and you do, but so don't call the percentages, but go to the polls yourself, and you'll pass as in Sombor a few days ago. So, what, slow? Life in Serbia cannot be seen slowly. Go to the election and you'll pass as in Somboro a few days ago. Of the 11 candidates, the last SNS candidate has 200 votes and some votes more than your best candidate. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want. That's what you only appreciate. The opinion of people in Serbia, and people in Serbia will know that they are making a difference between those living for politics, between people who are opening jobs, between people who are fighting for every investment, between people who are opening negotiating chapters with the EU, people who have received every support in the world for our behaviour in the migrant crisis, people who have reduced budget deficits, people who have made GDP growth. These people sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia and will distinguish between this policy and the politics of lies, policies of insult and hate policy. I will say once again, I hope for the last time in this House, hate is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, like a boomerang. You will swing hard and you will throw even stronger that same boomerang, he will turn around my head, around my colleagues' heads and colleagues from the SNS and will return to you in the day of elections and will return it to you from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I won't do it. I won't do it. I won't do it. That is why it is much better not to pollute this hall anymore, this House, this sanctuary of Serbian democracy and parliamentaryism, that we no longer pollute with such words as we have heard before, and that this door, which has so strongly slammed upon itself, slam them for all time. But not because that's what I want, or anyone else, but because that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48237	I thank you, Mr. Granny. It is clear in Serbia that Prime Minister Vukic and SNS want to perform public functions only at the will of the citizens. I apologize to the MPs, the previous speaker, Mr. Zivkovic, many times I said that if he could not refrain from being offended, he directed only to the chairman, not to insult the MPs of the people, and therefore I apologize for not being able to prevent the insults from being sent to the MPs as chairman. Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48238	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, with the explanation you have given, we accept this and will support the amendment proposed by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic. Mr. Becic, we accept your apology and we believe that the topic is very serious, responsible and that there is no room, no time, no time for such theatre performances. It's about the election and the election hasn't been called yet. The election campaign has long begun and it seems to me, unfortunately, a kind of negative election campaign. I propose to Mr Babic that SNS MPs, as well as SPS MPs, as so far, seriously, responsibly, committed, do our job at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and when the moment comes, let the citizens decide who they will trust. Mr. Granny, you're absolutely right. We agree completely when you say that the time has passed when elections and citizens' trust in Serbia have been won on the basis of empty political stories, imaginary affairs, political marketing. However, something else defines trust and what citizens will choose, which are the results. The results of this government's work are visible and recognizable and we are convinced that citizens will see them in the right way and that despite the campaign that has already begun and that Serbia should vote against, we are convinced that Serbia will vote in favour. When it comes to some concern about some indication of theft in the next snap parliamentary elections, it seems to us to be just an attempt at an alibi, or to find a reason for an evident election failure. But, I said, the topic is extremely serious and responsible, so that we could have these theatre performances. I'll go back to the bill. So, we want to accept this amendment, with the explanation of the first Deputy Prime Minister, we accept the argument of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic. A clear goal is to achieve this legislative proposal, which is to strengthen Serbia's international reputation. Here we have the first need to bring our legislation into line with international law, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the adoption of this legislative proposal stems from the obligation, when it comes to Serbia and Serbia's membership in international organisations. We have 26 proposed amendments and, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, two committee amendments. There were no substantial amendments. You said that, Mr. Dacic, in the opening statement quite clearly and precisely, which means we have a common goal and a common denominator. We think it's very important. The government of the Republic of Serbia today, who knows which way, shows one responsible and serious relationship, when we talk about the work of the National Assembly, that through dialogue, no matter whether amendments are submitted by the position and opposition, by accepting the amendments, there is as much quality of the legal framework as possible. A responsible, sure, and serious relationship today also shows the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Amendments not accepted have not been accepted, and you have made that clear and precise, because of procedures, because of formulations that are not acceptable, but have been corrected through two amendments submitted by the resolution board. Today it was about foreign policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, the SPS MPs provide full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia. (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the post: Theme. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a balanced and balanced foreign policy, where our interest is an unimpaired priority. EU membership is a key and strategic definition, a strategic interest, but Serbia wants, will and Serbia will continue to build relations with both the United States and Russia, both with China and with many other countries. I'll be back, of course, on a legal proposal. The adoption of this law is foreseen by the National Plan for the adoption of legal flows of the EU, which is very important. The adoption of this law meets another one in a series of obligations on Serbia's European path, with regard to Chapter 31 - foreign security and defence policy. The adoption of this legislative proposal creates a quality legal framework for implementing international restrictive measures in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48239	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48240	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am so sorry that the discussion of a single amendment has started so cheerfully, it has come to such a bad situation. I just wanted to say that I am glad that my colleagues have been adopted amendments and that they are glad to advocate that expertise is dominant, i.e. that expertise comes first. On this basis, I would only tell my colleagues who have proposed the amendment, when they talk about election results and the percentages that will be elected, that is, with whom these elections start, they better let that moment come when elections come, see the results and then talk about election results, and let them do so too. Let the waist give an analysis. It can't be an analysis of 9.60% because several amendments have been adopted. On the other hand, of the 1900 amendments most likely that some 1700, if not more, were deleted. There is one folk proverb that says: "It is better to speak a little but wise than much but unwise." One more thing for my colleagues to say, about the EU, don't be like little children - our only and most important strategic goal is to join the EU, etc. No, we've all advocated it, and we've all written it in our programmes, the first, the only, most important goal of all Serbia's well-being. We cannot enter the EU poor, small, none, but must enter rich, large and strong. Then the EU will welcome us much more and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48241	Ambassador Risticevich, by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48242	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adopting this amendment the legislative solution proposed, among other things, by farmers, is that they are from Vrakar, whether they are peasants from the city, but the peasant is a peasant, and the amendment is an amendment. So 50% of the credit for this goes to the peasants. However, my People's Peasants' Party has 4.8% if we divide those 9.6% and share no credit, because this couldn't come up with one, these were the two smart ones to come up with such a complicated amendment, and therefore, since my fellow farmer took part in writing this amendment, I believe and thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that my People's Peasant Party is on the verge of censorship, i.e. that we have 4.8% of the vote. So, I'm saying, in order not to interrupt me, I speak in the way that the promoter explained his amendments by making percentages, and I'm saying that correcting these grammatical and literal errors is valuable, especially when we contribute to this we to farmers. We used to team up in 2000, we were politically teaming up to win. Now my fellow farmer wants to plagiarize that period, wants to plagiarize October 5th, but they join to cross the censorship. So, all of them come together like that to cross the census and that's their right, and that's their right to prove as well as through amendments, through percentages, through analogies. Now that we've taken how many amendments they've voted for since 1919, do you believe they voted for only eight? So, we pulled out the statistics, the amendment's proposings have since 1919 supported only eight of their proposals. Eight times they voted, so when we translate it into percent, analoguely, I believe it's about 0.45% of the vote for its own amendments. When they didn't believe in these ideas, in their amendments, in their amendments to the law, how will the citizens trust them for something they don't believe themselves? How will the citizens believe in some new October 5th, when they spent October 5th? The energy of the citizens of October 5th has been traded for bags since October 6th, and my fellow farmer could best confirm it. As for the amendments and their entry into the EU, they promised me in 2002, 2003, that we would join the EU in 2007. And instead of my fellow farmer and the only farmer who was prime minister, instead of bringing us into the EU in 2007, he brought us into Frusch Mountain into the vineyards. So the EU, promised in 2007, turned into an entry into a vineyard in Frustia Gora in Krcedin in 2007. Analyzingly, do you want to join the EU or enter the vineyards in Krcedin on the Mount of France? I wish my colleague was a farmer and I could hear that kind of answer. The amendment was complicated, it was necessary for the lecturers to cooperate with each other, but I even believe that they didn't write it, but that some service that examines grammatical errors, etc. Correct them, write them amendments, believe that sometimes they're so lazy they can't read what they're supposed to write, but I appreciate their struggle to correct grammatical errors. I also appreciate the government's acceptance of this, which means that this is an integral part of the government's proposal, that it was not voted for, that citizens did not declare it. Of course, we farmers have made an unambiguous contribution to making such a complicated amendment to correct grammatical errors. In the end, since some of the avets were mentioned here, the glare, that I was often called here by a Renaissance character, my fellow farmer is not there, if he were there, would explain to him that the Renaissance was a good fruit, a good period, so that we from the People's Peasants' Party are proud to participate together with other parties, with our small contribution to the restoration of the country that they brought to the edge of the break-in, that it takes 100 to raise it, those who promised to bring us into the EU in 2007 would not admit us even in 2070. We would have been introduced into hundreds of vineyards, but we would not have been introduced into the EU. If you disagree and disagree, no one can humiliate you, no one can create a sense of less value for you, if you don't agree with it, I never agree with those insults, because you have to remember, my fellow farmer is rarely a smart man. But really rare, really rare, really rare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48243	Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted the amendments together. The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48244	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Minister Dacic and his associates, I have already spoken about this amendment in the opening statement. We wanted to fix two attitudes here. Items 1 and 3 and apparently the promoter had the hearing that this third-state correction was implemented and that this corresponds to international law, regulations and positive practice in diplomacy. So we're pleased that this committee was adopted this morning. The point was that it was notified, we wrote, here it is being notified by an international organisation whose measures are being taken, that is, so we are satisfied with this correction. Essentially on the basis of our amendment, our proposal, the committee promoter has corrected the original proposal and is now an excellent member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48245	Thank you. Pursuant to Article 14 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Minister, please plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48246	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment was proposed to make it clear that an approved release of part of the funds for paying extraordinary costs in situations which could not be foreseen was notified by an international organisation which introduced restrictive measures. You know how, it's hard by one act to predict every life situation in which anyone can be found and at all whether it's a state, a legal entity or an individual. So we tried to find a solution that included the essence of what we all wanted together, which is to clarify this and not to have any problems implementing this law. Accordingly, the Proposer accepts the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48247	Thank you. The minister has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48248	Let me just take another chance to thank you for having heard that this one, at first glance, has a little correction, and in fact there's a lot of the essence of that, is not just an interpretation and what I know, to accept and to further improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48249	MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 18th amendment together. Since the Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48250	Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to learn that in the day of voting, the MPs of the SNS, Mr Dacic, will vote in favour of this bill in general amongst other things for this amendment that you have accepted. You have seen how much resistance even to accept one amendment to our previous amendment, where I have only volunteered to show once again what has been accepted and when five, six MPs have reported to criticise me, and eventually they will vote for it. Mr. Dacic, I want to make a correction here now and as far as your attitude is concerned. You have stated by commenting on our previous amendment that he is concerned with a single printing error. I will now logically show you how you made a mistake here because in an explanation for accepting our amendment to Article 18 you wrote, Minister Dacic, the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendment. In the explanation of the amendment, we did not write, Mr Dacic, that we were correcting a single printing error, but we wrote the following – we believe that the amendment was proposed in accordance with Serbian spelling and grammar. This means, gentlemen, and Mr Dacic that when we face this kind of amendment, with this content, that our particular orientation is that we must respect our language, that when in this sanctuary, as Mr Babic says, political life in Serbia comes a legal project that we all have such an approach that the Serbian language must be respected. So here I have one Serbian Dictionary, that is always at hand, the freshest edition of 2006-2007, that I always respond when I happen to notice that there is some playing in Serbian and it is good that the profession has said that this amendment is necessarily accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48251	Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48252	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, it is good that foreign policy and foreign policy laws enter the domain of solving spelling mistakes that are in the spirit of the Serbian language. Why? Because it shows that the fundamentals have nothing against the laws that are on the agenda today. So, they have no fundamental objection to the foreign policy led by the Serbian government and the Ministry and the laws that this Assembly votes and policy shows that Serbia is strengthening with its positions through the adoption of such laws, which by 2012 were unable to put this parliament on the People's MPs' pleadings at all, and they had a consensus, as they say, and more political parties. Therefore, if the amendment promoter to Article 18 gives a definition that he wants to simply apply this amendment which will be in line with the spelling, then it is essential to give one compliment and this legislative proposal and the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I really think that when it comes to voting day, since you have accepted such amendments and they have become an integral part of the law, we want to see our colleagues press the key and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48253	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48254	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Minister Dacic and his associates, I thank the promoter for accepting this amendment at first sight with little correction, but it is essential. The idea was to introduce this amendment an imperative norm which we oblige the Ministry to deliver the data from the records to the international organisation. It's finesse, but it's significant, and I say once again that I am pleased that the ministry has heard that it accepts this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48255	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. You have to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48256	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Minister Dacic and his associates, let me briefly state what was the idea and why it was good that this amendment was accepted. We have introduced a provision on how the procedure is conducted, more precisely by applying the General Administrative Procedure Act, because the bill, the original proposal, did not contain any provision under which specific rules would be decided on the legal person's request and I think this is a good amendment to the law. So, if they do, they'll be able to solve them properly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48257	Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS and ZS together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS and ZS together submitted the 25th amendment. Do you want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I thank the ministers for today's work. We'll allow the Minister two minutes to conclude the amendment debate. Here you go. You got two minutes on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48258	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to express my gratitude for, I think, showing everyone that this law is of professional character. As you know, all assistants and State Secretary of the Foreign Ministry are not from political structures, they are from the Foreign Ministry itself, Mr Filipovic, who is an assistant to this area, has otherwise worked, for how many years, here at the Assembly of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and this law is not at all burdened by any political connotations, but it was necessary. I want to say for the public that this law does not mean that we will impose any sanctions on anyone who is not in our interest, or that we have not accepted. When it comes to the EU, since everyone is particularly interested in Russia, we retain that policy, a policy that goes towards wanting those sanctions lifted as soon as possible. This law will contribute greatly, of course, to the credibility and credibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and will help further negotiations with the EU when it comes to Chapter 31. I wasn't too inspired, because there are no opposition people here, so I don't have the inspiration to talk about these political issues, and you know I like to talk about it. That will probably be discussed more Friday at the National Assembly session, when Prime Minister Vukic will be here and when we will all be from the government. I want to say that, as Djordje Milicevic said, on behalf of my party, we have achieved very significant historical results for Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48259	Time, Mr. Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48260	I'm sorry that you're restricting me here right now, but I want you to, since these are in line with these limits that we've been bringing, but I just want to say one thing. Together we started in 2012 what may have historical significance for Serbia and convinced that after these elections we will move on together in the interest of Serbia's future. Therefore, I only want to draw attention to anyone who writes or who forces us to go with DS, Tadic's party, Canka, Chad or Dvori, the former Kostunica's party, Seselj's party, etc., and sometimes my SNS friends say so that maybe we can go with them. Here, let me tell you: go with them, if you will, we will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-03-0.u48261	Minister, thank you. This is what I think is informally said, so we will consider the informal address of the president of the SPS, that is, the foreign minister. I thank the ministers. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue the debate on the amendments to the Sport Act. I thank you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
