ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-29-0.u52231	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending today by Professor Zarko Obradovic. I put to the vote the draft law on the public sector wage system in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – four abstentions – there are no, no four MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of the head and title of the member and member of the 1st Amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – five, against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 2nd amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 3rd amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 4th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstention - has voted with 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – six, against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of Chapter II, the name of the member and member of the 5th amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and jointly by Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 5th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – six, against – 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 6th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – three, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 7th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – three, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—six against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović and MP Slobodan Homen submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstentions for four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them; there has been no vote by 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them; there has been no vote by 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them; there has been no vote by 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 12th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them; there has been no vote by 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted against 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 14th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them; there has been no vote by 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and five MPs of the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, with abstention, has voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and of the 17th amendment, five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. There was no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one who has ever voted for 158 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, with abstention, has voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there is no vote of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 20th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted, nor did 163 people's messengers vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one who has ever voted for 158 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. There was no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted, nor did 163 people's messengers vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. There was no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Corovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 25th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava III, the name of the member and member of the 26th amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and jointly by Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 26th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 27th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 28th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic together and together Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 29th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 30th amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together Natasa Vukovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, with abstention, has voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted against 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one who has ever voted for 158 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava IV and member of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there is no vote of 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava V, the name of the member and member of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, submitted the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there is no vote of 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them; there is no vote of 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft bill on the public sector wage system, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the public sector wage system. I put to the vote the draft law on general administrative procedure, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – one, with abstention – two, 14 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, none, for 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who has been abstained - who has not voted with 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The LSV parliamentary group submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group DS submitted the name above Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 9th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 148 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Chapter II, the name above the members and Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 19th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP group DS submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Chapter III, the name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the MP group DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four, and 143 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 23 of the amendment, the MP group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 24 of the amendment, the MP group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 25 of the amendment, the MP group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS submitted the name above the member and Article 25 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 26 of the amendment, the MP group DS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not yet voted 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three of them; there is no vote of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the section, the name above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment was submitted by the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three of them; there is no vote of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members of the 40th and of the 40th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three of them; there is no vote of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 41st and Article 41st Amendment, the MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, three, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not yet voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for five, there is no one who has ever voted with one hundred and sixty-six people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 48. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, three, no one who has been held, who has not been voted by 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 48 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a messenger of 151 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 49. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who is four against them. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 52. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs for – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two people. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against them, but 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 69 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the Assembly of Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two people. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who did not vote with 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 90th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 92. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 98. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none, 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, submitted to Amendment 103. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 108th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 121st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 121. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The DS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to add a new member of 121a after Article 121a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs of the DS Parliament group submitted to Article 139 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 140th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 145. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 161. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 171st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 212. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to article 214 by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, submitted the amendment to Article 215. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 217. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on general administrative procedure, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 152. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on general administrative procedure. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and eight minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 86. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Natasa Vučković, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one voted for it. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 26 February, at 17 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 92 and 107. Rules of Procedure, please decide whether or not the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote again. I understand you're not injured by those members. National MP Sasa Mirkovic, at a session on February 26th, at 17am and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 88. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 92(7). Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Sasa Mirkovic, at a session on February 26th, at 17 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Natasa Vuckovic, at a session on February 26th, at 20 hours and 7 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if those members have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on February 28th, at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to Article 87's injury. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on February 28th, at 17 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on February 28th, at 18 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you for your cooperation, and I'll see you at your regular session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
