ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46529	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, insert cards into the identification units of the parliamentary voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Does anyone want to ask for a notice and an explanation based on Article 287? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46530	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last few days, weeks, the SVM Group addressed several, more dissatisfied citizens with the same problem. In particular, it is about the issue of new electronic health books and the registration of names and last names by the spelling of national minorities. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 79. -right to preserve speciality, among other things, guarantees that members of national minorities have the right to use their own language and letter and to use their own name in their own language in accordance with the law. Furthermore, the Law on Parent Books, article 17, states that the personal name of the child, parents, spouses, the deceased is entered in Serbian, Cyrillic, and members of the national minority have the right to enter a personal name by language and the law of members of the national minority, which does not exclude the parallel registration of a personal name and in the Serbian language of the Cyrillic letter. Furthermore, the Personal Card Act, Article 9, in particular point 3, states that in the form of the ID card, the name and the name data are entered in the original form as entered in the copy of the birth certificate. Data on the last name and name of members of national minorities are recorded in parallel in both Serbian spelling and letter. And, the Travel document Act, Article 26 of paragraphs 2 and 3, say – that travel documents, last name and name forms are entered in the original form as they are entered in the copy of the birth certificate. The authority responsible for issuing travel documents shall be obliged to provide technical opportunities for the recording of the name and name of members of national minorities in the original form according to the language and the spelling of members of the national minority. What's the problem? Names and last names in the copy of the birth certificate, including in ID cards, are entered in the original original form according to the spelling of the national minority in the new electronic health books shall be translated, converted. Consents specifically convert from Latin to Cyrillic, and since the Hungarian language has 40 letters or more votes, it is richer than Serbian, there are very many vowels, whether they are longer or shorter, they are unrecognizable in this software and they are, of course, automatically copied. Another problem is that according to Hungarian spelling, certain and consonants are written with two letters, such as my last name Kovac or the last name Horvat, etc. This is extremely bizarre, because when you convert your name and name, it turns out to be Hungarian, Hungarian, actually written in a Cyrillic letter. We think there's probably been a technical error and technical problems. However, if the system, software, technique prescribes latinic vowels, even long vowels in the original form, there are probably technical possibilities to convert these consonants so that they are not Cyrillic, but Latin letters, whether f, g, h, etc. There's been a lot of illogicality. The citizens are rightly dissatisfied. This is bizarre. Can't specifically be copied by the spelling of a national minority name and last name Cyrillic or for it to be a combination of Cyrillic and Latin. So I ask the question of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health – what caused this failure? Is it possible to solve this problem quickly, in the near future? Is it possible that citizens who have, unfortunately, received new electronic health books with a name and last name written in such a strange, bad, impossible spelling of the replacement of that health book and is it possible to do so without any new additional cost for the citizens themselves, because we in the SVM parliamentary group consider it logical and just? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46531	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Nis, I would like to refer my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the Prime Minister, Aleksandr Vukic. These three questions were repeated months ago and I received unmistakable answers from the ministries that were considered competent to give me an answer. Today I will rephrase this question of mys and refer it to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic – why the Prime Minister and Government, the current government, has done nothing and fulfilled their pre-election promises to Nis citizens in the elections. in the 2012 and 2014 campaigns, and when promised, the new government that sought trust and also gained the trust of the citizens of Nis in 2012 and 2014, to provide new jobs, a better standard, better employment and a better life for the citizens of Nis and the environment, as promised for the whole south and southeast of Serbia? I will remind you that in the city of Nis, more than 36,000 people do not work, that the unemployment rate is twice as high as what the government statistics say is in Serbia, which is 36%. It is that last year, statistics came out that there are 8% more employees in the town of Nis than before. I'll present the second data from your 2015 budget report. I will mention to the people of Nis that in 2012, the 2012 budget is filled with three billion and 600 million dinars. In 2015, the budget is charged in the same position for three billion and 200 million dinars, which is 400 million less than it was in 2012. Citizens of Nis, when you go to the polls, consider whether the increase in employment is directly related to the reduction of inflows of funds into the city budget. That's impossible. So I ask President Alexander Vukic why he did not keep his pre-election promises and why did he not allow Nis citizens more employment and a better chance of economic development and a better life? What it says is that pre-election promises have not been fulfilled is data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce that says that from 2012 to 2016 it is less 365 companies and 201 entrepreneurs than it was in 2012. So, a general drop in employment and a general decline in the economic development of the town of Nis. Another question I will ask the Prime Minister – why is nothing done on a general and unique request, one of the few consents of the Niš City Assembly, which is the removal of the railway from the city centre? What I was getting in response from Mr. Wolfie. from Ms. Minister Mihajlovic is a persuasion of the story and what was done by 2012. I ask the Prime Minister -- why didn't he invest his authority, and why didn't the government he runs do anything and move from the dead point of moving the railroad? What the citizens of Nis are afraid of, and the congregation majority, and the congregation minority, I say, is one of the rare situations when the parliament was unique, is to wait for the last moment to temporarily be electriced through the city of Nis. I ask – why is nothing done and why, if it is certain that the railway will be moved, my questions are not given a decadent answer that the railway from the town of Nis, from the center of the town of Nis, will be moved along the route that was defined in 2012? I thank and expect to get an answer from the Prime Minister, because I do not believe that with the same promises it will come to the upcoming parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46533	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that parliamentary elections will be held in April, besides local elections. Also four years ago, these elections were held simultaneously, which took place in Presevo and Bujanovac under completely abnormal conditions. The abnormality of these elections was due to the harsh intervention of the special police forces during the election silence, and when an unfounded and without one argument was detained a considerable number of Albanians, as has been proven in the subsequent court proceedings. As a result, the Party for Democratic Action suffered the most because its committee candidates were very rudely distracted. However, the regularity of these elections has been further violated by violations of constitutional and legal rights to the official use of the language and letters of national minorities. Contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters and the Law on the Single Election List, copies of the electoral lists were written only in a Cyrillic letter, and the names and last names of Albanian voters were written with a deformed Cyrillic and unknown designations that members of the electorate committees could not decrypt, and therefore a considerable number of Albanians could not exercise their electoral right. For the 2014 parliamentary elections, the names and last names of voters began to be printed in parallel in the Albanian letter, but it was only partial, so my question was addressed to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration – what will be done in this remaining time to solve this very serious problem in general? The second issue is addressed to the government, and is related to an important and sensitive problem, with 10,000 necessary signatures of support, with a judicial authority for the electoral lists of national minorities. If it is known that a considerable number of national minorities can mainly be represented by only one representative, which I have had on three occasions to be, as the only representative of Albanians, we have a situation to ensure, in addition to the 12,000 votes required in the elections, that one term is also necessary. Turns out we have to double-provide for the same mandate. If I add that there is no more basic court in Presevo, no more unit that has recently been abolished, then this problem is also further compounded and complicated, because it takes enormous energy and activity for one national minority to provide so many judicially certified signatures. I now refer the question to the Government – is there any willingness to, in the remaining time, change the provisions of the law in order to allow national minorities to have adequate, proportionate number of judicially certified signatures? It would be high time for this problem, which appeared in 2007, to be properly solved. However, there is a more complex problem here with allowing minorities to be represented in parliament, which requires some additional measures to adequately represent minorities in parliament, but is the essence of which I have just presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46535	Time. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46536	In the last six months, 13 medical workers have been attacked. A nurse was recently murdered. The health ministry has come up with some suggestions in agreement with the medical technicians and workers union. In fact, the union has suggested that police officers be deployed in health care homes, that the prosecution reacts by official duty to each attack and thus lets potential attackers know that they will not go unpunished. He also suggested that penalties for attackers should be tightened. The Ministry, as I said, has accepted all these three proposals. A meeting with the police ministry is expected and I am asking Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar to inform me of the outcome of this meeting and these agreements. Also, we have a big problem with people who have mental disorders, who are hospitalized and the health profession has done its part of the job here. But after hospitalization, a large number of them don't take regular therapy and one of the reasons this is happening is this. My question to Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar is - is the health ministry planning to introduce some kind of protocol and control when it comes to these patients? I also think that the major problem is the lack of coordination of institutions in Serbia, primarily the social work centres and health institutions and police. My question to the Minister of Health is - how will it affect its profession and its position to improve this coordination, so that these unsatisfactory events no longer happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46537	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46538	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, a fruitful year for the citizens of Novi Pazar and the whole region, a lot of this government has done for our region and in an infrastructure sense has rebirthed practically the New Market, which has become a sheher again, a beautiful place where everyone wants to come. It is precisely the policy of this government and the SDPS with it that openness and work to promote its end and its country delivers results. I would especially like to thank the Ministry of Health, which has done a great deal for the city of Novi Pazar and for the infrastructure, health care in Novi Pazar. We have opened the Institute of Public Health, which is a big deal for us and we have also made citizens of the New Market have received a magnificent diagnostic centre in which, it is not just a building, I can say that only magnetic resonance costs a million euros and is probably more quality than that of the Clinical Centre of Serbia. We also got multiple scans, labs and a lot of stuff. But we don't want to stop at it, and I want to get into solving the crucial issue of the health infrastructure of this part of our country. In fact, there is a serious threat to the absence of a categorisation hall in the town of Novi Pazar, which does not cover only Novi Pazar, and I can say that it is the only part of our country that is not covered by this kind of treatment, which is, I must say, a constitutional category. North of Kosovo, the whole of Sandzak is gravitating to Novi Pazar and these people in cases of heart attacks, which is 60% of the total mortality of the entire population are really at risk. Today's medicine, what we say is "evidence baze" based on evidence has shown an extremely great advantage of this method of treatment, and I would like to call on the Ministry to get into one of the planning preparations, to ask the minister -- did he plan the staff and did he do any kind of project that would solve this problem? Of course I have statistics here in the town of New Market in 2011 we had 319 heart attacks and mortality about 7.21%. Fortunately, 2014 the number has been reduced to around 259, but mortality has increased to about 13.5%, which is precisely in favour of this type of treatment being the best and most needed for this part of Serbia. I must say that other parts of Serbia are covered by Valjev, Zaječar, Užica, etc. In this way we will cover this part of Serbia, and we will indeed satisfy above all, the constitutional category that health care is equally available and that everyone has the same right to better survival, because I must say that it is not only a problem in mortality, but in complications that arise. People who are not treated with this method develop heart insufficiency at a stage and in some extent, which is also an extremely difficult thing and additionally burdens the health system later. Once again, I thank the Minister, he has really worked very highly, he has really paid attention to our neighborhood and I call on him with another question to enter practically into the planning of the categorization hall and to round up a health system in this part of the country with this project. In this way, to show the citizens that this policy has produced many results, the SDPS has shown and received the absolute support it will repeat, I am convinced that you will also make sure that this time that our leader, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, with Mr. Vukic, has no alternative, he is the one who gives improvements and we will insist on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46539	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46540	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and the question is – when will he finally start, and the other members of the government, as well as to answer regularly the questions of the MPs, those MPs who chose them to be members of this government. I remind you that they are in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure to respond to MPs within eight days, and in exceptional cases within 30 days. The second question was addressed to the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr. Tasovac. The same question we asked REM, which is – is it aware that someone has pressured REM members to select these board members who have been elected to two public media services by the RTS Management Board and the RTS Management Board? I would like to ask Minister Tasovac and – is he directed to the RTS Management Board now also Ljiljana Đurđevac, who is one of the notorious journalists from the Milosevic regime period and who is constantly employed in REM? Does Minister Tasovac know what a passionate artist and participant of one of Zorica Shujic's realitys recommended to become a member of the RTS Management Board? It is the same lady who in her media performances says it would be good for Serbia to look like a reality, which praises the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia in all its media performances. I would like to ask Minister Tasovac and – does he know how it is possible that one of the advisors in the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, also becomes a member of the RTS Management Board? In the end – what did this recommend for a member of the Management Board of RTV Istvan Teremija, a sales reference at a construction firm, and no prominent figures such as Serbia's Turajlic, Bosko Jaksic, Slobodan Stupar, Rade Zelenović, etc? Instead of these candidates with prestigious résumés, as you could hear selected are persons with a troubled past or persons who are unknown to the professional public. When compared to who has been elected and who has not been elected to these boards, it is clear that the board of directors has been hired to preserve the monopoly of the ruling party in public service, especially now that we know that we will have both republican and regional elections. Meanwhile, one REM member also voiced doubts about the non-regularity of the election process of members of the Management Board and we ask for this response and remind that members of the regulatory body for electronic media are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is duty to account for the MPs. They deal with issues of public interest and cannot go beyond the scenes and without reason make such shameful decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46541	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Muamer Bacevac, were you speaking? Is that how it stayed in the system? Pull out the card, please. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46542	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is about the funding of national councils of national minorities, and therefore the question is addressed to the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, i.e. Ministerial Kori Udovicki. The funding of national councils of national minorities has been regulated by the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and Article 114 has been defined as funding for the work of national councils, to be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the Autonomous Region and the budget of the unit of local self-government, from donations and other revenues. The next Article of 115 speaks of the amount of public resources provided for to finance the work of national councils and to be determined for each year by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or by decisions on the budget of the Autonomous Region and decisions of the units of local self-government when local budgets are made. This is also a question, but we also draw attention, as an SPS parliamentary group, to an insufficient definition of what is a provision or a position that regulates the funding of national councils from the budget of local self-government. In particular, the funds determined by local self-government shall be allocated in accordance with the decision of the competent authority of local self-government to national councils representing national minorities, which reach at least 10% of the total population of local self-government units. I'd say there's a variety of practices here. Perhaps this issue is less problematic, less painful in Vojvodina, although talks with colleagues from Vojvodina, who are from the ranks of national minorities, shows that local self-governments are equally fulfilling their obligation, and that in other parts of Serbia we even have much more drastic cases, that some local self-governments do not meet their obligation to finance the work of national councils at all. For example, in eastern Serbia of 19 municipalities with Vlaška national minority only four municipalities met their obligations in some amount of minimum to finance the Vlaška National Council for 2015. It is overlooked in the authorities of local self-government that minority representatives are residents of these local self-government, that they too should satisfy some of their interests, especially in the fields of culture, education, field of communication, i.e. information and official use of language, and in such a way, by achieving these minority rights, are actually equal to the rights of the majority people. So this provision of the law only declares itself binding on local self-government, but does not define, there is no instrument that will eventually do so. Through the financial reports provided by the national councils to the ministry, you can see to what extent local self-governments are meeting and therefore you would ask the ministry for a report in which local self-governments referred to this issue, and on the other hand, we draw attention to that in the coming period...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46543	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46544	... When changes and additions to this law are made, this question is more precisely defined and regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46545	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46546	Dear President, the DS government in Vojvodina has unfortunately been here for 15 years. During the government, DS Vojvodina has become the last car in a poor composition since Serbia's development locomotive. Agricultural giants in northern Serbia were destroyed and destroyed thanks to DS and Bojan Pajtic. The Duke's agriculture is on its way out, and the Duke's villages are shutting down, the villagers are on their own. That is the state of the respected citizens of Vojvodina that is unsustainable. The money routes from the luxuriant province funds of Bojan Pajtic are very suspicious, but with well-known destinations. It's all about Bojan Pitiæ. It speaks of him having to leave Serbia's political scene and that as soon as possible. He's very aware of that, but that's why he's very dangerous. His accusations of recent days at the expense of the Serbian government and the Prime Minister are in the role of preserving traces of iniquities and theft from the pockets of the citizens of Vojvodina. Bojan Pajtic has not yet answered the question of the people of Vojvodina about the abuses in the business "Vojvodine Development Bank", the Capital Investment Fund, the Vojvodina Development Fund, "Tesla Banka" in Zagreb? Pajtic has not yet answered the question – where his account includes 156 million dinars intended for the reconstruction of the "Hetherland" castle in Vienna, which was meant to serve children with special needs? Pajtic has not yet answered the question of the people of Vojvodina -- where are the two million dinars that DS officials stole from refugees in Alibunar? Pajtic has not yet answered the question of the people of Vojvodina – where are the million euros stolen from the King's earthquake? Pajtic has not yet answered the question of Serbian citizens -- where are the three million dinars that DS officials stole from farmers in Ada? Pajtic has not yet answered the question of the people of Vojvodina – what about those 400,000 euros that "Metals Bank" gave to Djordja Balasevic on his orders for a film that has never been seen by citizens? Dear citizens, this is how Pajtic and Tadic destroyed our Vojvodina and Serbia. They destroyed our past, our future, they destroyed the present, the future of our children, but if they stay for at least one year in power in Vojvodina, they will destroy our roots. I ask the state prosecutor – are there any elements to pursue Bojan Pajtic? I ask the second question about Dragan Sutanovac because in 2010, he paid for the upgrade of software for VMA 850,000 euros, and that is even, respected citizens, four times more than the computer program cost when it was bought. A million-dollar repair software was declared military secret, and the job was completed without a public competition, a call, a direct contract. As defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac damaged Serbia's budget for 200m dinars as defence minister for the acquisition of a mobile radio relay system via Jugochemia. Dragan Sutanovac, as defence minister, assigned his best friend Babac state affairs of 156m dinars. In the period from 2008 to 2010, Dragan Sutanovac signed several dozen contracts with the company in which Sutanc's best friend Babac was the director. Dragan Sutanovac, on leaving the assistant post, believed or not, took a 12.5,000-euro severance payment from the police minister in 2002, although he was not allowed to work in state authorities for two years under the law. But after two months, a month and a half to two, he got a job at a company, but he didn't return the severance. During Dragan Sutanovac as defence minister of many plots, many facilities have been sold out, destroyed military and donated friends, so it is necessary to examine the former minister of large assets, especially pasture buildings at the St Sava temple in Belgrade. I'm asking the D.A.'s office, is there any element for the prosecution of Dragan Sutanovac? As SNS MP, I urge Bojan Pajtic and Dragan Sutanovac to resign so that I can press charges against them and hand them over to the country's largest court, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to condemn them in the first elections and to send them to a place of political history, from which, fortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will never return to the political life of Vojvodina and Serbia. I expect you'll find yourself very soon where they belong. I call on the Attorney General to see if there are any elements to prosecute the two MPs listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46547	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today the sessions are prevented from attending Borisav Kovacevic and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Tatjana Matić, Stevana Nikčević, Vesna Kovac and Lucrezia Đerić, State Secretary at the Ministry, Sava Savić, Jovan Stojic and Renata Pinjo, Assistant Minister of Trade, Dusica Đordjevic and Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Senior Advisors at the Ministry and Jelena Prekić and Milan Vojvodić, Independent Advisors at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: - PROPOSAL OF AUTHORITY LAW AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE INFORMATION SAFETY LAW. Does the proposal representative Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to give very brief reasons, goals, as well as the essence of the two legislative proposals that we are discussing today. As regards the Law on Advertising, the applicable law was passed ten years ago and you are certainly also witnesses that many of the provisions of the applicable law have been overcome, and many things have happened in the meantime when we talk about practice and when we talk about regulations in the country, but also when we talk about directives, or regulation within EU countries. Therefore, that is the basic reason for this law to be passed. So many provisions are completely exceeded, and on the other hand we have to go to meet the new trends that have emerged. A year after this law was passed, the EU Directive on misleading and comparative advertising was also adopted, and many provisions of the existing Advertising Act have been derivated. At the time when the law was passed in Serbia, nobody heard of Facebook or other social networks, digitisation was only in the region, and then they could only imagine themselves, actually predicting the possibilities of smart phones. All of these are reasons why we're going with new legal solutions. On the other hand, I said that we should coordinate and harmonise our legislation in this area with EU standards. I mentioned the 2006 directive and also the 2014 recommendation on the protection of minors from online gambling. This is the truth of the recommendation, but we have installed it in the provisions of this bill. What we want to achieve by this law is primarily to protect consumers from the explaining and very often false messages that can lead them to the wrong purchase, that is to make a decision on some purchase and, on the other hand, the essence of the law is to secure a fair and competitive match among all market participants, in other words to prevent unfair competition and so we have incorporated these provisions on comparative advertising that we will say a few words about later. The third thing that this law achieves is to provide instruments, tools for proper inspections so that they can control and monitor the application of these legal provisions. I'm going to be very brief, and I'm not going to look back on the whole law, I'm going to look at the parts that we've changed and that are very different from the applicable advertising law. One of the key newspapers is advertising alcoholic beverages. Serbia has so far shared alcoholic beverages on wine and beer on the one hand and other alcoholic beverages on the other. Nowhere in any European country do you have that kind of division of alcoholic beverages. Analyzing legislation in EU countries, we have reached the division of alcoholic beverages that exists in many of these countries, although there is no single standard, so under this law all alcoholic beverages are divided into those containing less than 20% alcohol and those containing more than 20% alcohol. This is now well in line with legislation in many countries, therefore, not within the EU because there are no standards, but we have observed how this division has been done and thus we have drawn close to some of the solutions that exist in EU legislation. Accordingly, we have had the situation so far that beer and alcohol advertising was allowed from 18 am to 6 am, and according to this bill, we will have the opportunity to advertise alcohol up to 20% of alcohol from 18 am to 6 am, and for alcoholic beverages from more than 20% alcohol will be able to advertise from 23 am to 6 am. Also, it's a newspaper, for the first time we've made it possible for alcoholic beverages to be advertised in the printed media. The exception is magazines, magazines intended for children and minors, so it will not be possible to advertise alcoholic beverages in these magazines. It is certain that there will be a dilemma here about this legal proposal, but there have been some comparative experiences. All six countries in Europe do not allow full advertising of alcoholic beverages in printed media, of which only Norway fully prohibits that in the other five countries they have found some solutions that are approximate to these solutions that we now propose in this law. The second newspaper concerns, and I have already mentioned this, the provisions on misleading and comparative advertising, they existed in the current legislative proposal, they are now more precisely defined and fully incorporated from the EU directive. Therefore, misleading advertising is prohibited, which is completely and logical, because it refers to the advertising that leads to the error of the customer, i.e. the consumer when buying certain goods or services. Also, comparative advertising is prohibited because it can identify either its competitor, or its goods or services. Therefore, the comparative advertising that degrades goods, services, competitive on the market, is prohibited. Of course, judicial protection is foreseen in these cases, therefore, that any legal or natural person will be able to press charges to the competent court and request a ban on such advertising if it appears. It is even possible that even before the publication of that ad, if the information is held that it will be published, to make a decision that such advertising cannot be broadcast. Also, the newspaper is also an open-air advertising that once again existed in a valid legal solution but here we define more precisely that it is the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government, that they adopt a sublegal act that determines the conditions, the way of advertising in the open space, meaning, through billboards, panorama. Income from such services goes directly to local self-government. This law also defines internet advertising again for the first time, certainly refers to the content of the message from which it can unequivocally draw the conclusion that goods sold or services are intended for customers, i.e. consumers in Serbia. Internet advertising, less or less, is subject to all the provisions of this advertising law, thus advertising alcoholic beverages with up to 20% alcohol content is allowed, while tobacco and cigarettes and alcoholic beverages containing more than 20% alcohol are prohibited. The paper is to abolish advertising of electronic cigarettes, and to advertise electronic cigarettes, the same provisions apply to the ban on advertising tobacco and cigarettes in general, and in this way fully respect the provisions of the Council of Europe and the EU Directive. Also, this law for the first time regulates gambling, and this advertising is possible but it is limited that it can be advertised in electronic media and cinemas from 21.00 to 6.00 in the morning, that it is also prohibited to advertise happiness in the open space if the apartments or billboards are 100 meters closer, in fact 100 meters from school, pre-school institutions, health institutions or juvenile institutions. Also, this proposal takes care of the content of the advertising message, it is forbidden to treat gambling as socially desirable, it is forbidden to issue news in the content of the message that on the authorized or unfounded chances of winning these games of happiness, and this will be strictly taken into account since there have been and how great abuses. Similarly, the advertising of prize games that are not games of chance is defined in a similar way if the editor clearly points to the conditions and the height of the prizes he gives, the kind of reward he gives. Here was the largest number of complaints in the earlier period. It happened that the viewer called to participate in some prize game and then the operator asked him a question that wasn't even pointed out on the screen and these cases would now be sanctioned. Also, making statements on the health and nutrition properties of certain products will only be possible if it is based on an appropriate scientific finding, this is also an area where there have been and how major abuses. There is a whole chapter or chapter in the law that is literally taken over by the Law on Electronic Media, which refers to advertising in electronic media and also to advertising in re-transmission programmes. There's no newspaper here, so the law that was passed last year, so I'm thinking about the Law on Electronic Media. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, they are not more stringent than the applicable law, but are only in line with the law on infringements. What is important is the defined authority of individual authorities, therefore, over the application of this law, so that the Ministry of Trade is responsible for supervision, when it comes to printed media and internet advertising, that the Republic Authority for Electronic Media is responsible for monitoring when we talk about advertising, or advertising in electronic media, and that local self-government units are responsible for advertising in the open space. I believe that this law largely contains all the provisions that sort of correct the anomalies of the previous law. I have already said that I have only installed everything that will harmonize our legislation in this area with the EU, or standards in the EU. Two sublaws will need to be brought after the adoption of this law, one which brings the ministry responsible for trade affairs, when we talk about a warning message when it comes to advertising alcohol and alcoholic beverages and another sublegal act brought by local self-government, which refers to advertising, in the open space. The law begins to apply for three months from the entry into force. We have set this deadline for three months, given that there are already agreed obligations between advertisers and media, and we have tried not to interrupt anything in these current contracts and to give time to adapt to new legal solutions. As far as the information security law is concerned, for the first time this area has been regulated, and so far there have been eight laws that have treated the area of information security and there is the Criminal Code, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Electronic Signature, the Law on Electronic Document, the Law on Information Security, the Law on Internet Crime, which only regulated those areas, as regards the sanctioning of criminal offences, which arises from the use of the Internet. Therefore, the completely different laws that have partially regulated this area and we are now seeking to pass one roof law, a law that will move forward with the trends that exist and the great challenges that arise in this area and that is the key reason for this law being passed. Another reason is the usual, when we adapt and join the EU, align and harmonize with EU standards. We are here fully in line with the security strategy, the ICT system that was adopted last year, and we are also in line with a directive that will only be adopted in the EU, which concerns the network and the information security and provisions of that directive we have already incorporated into the text of this law. However, the key reason why this law is passed is the fact that there are great challenges in the field of information security, that every day we become increasingly aware of the importance of this area and that every day we become aware of the vulnerability of our devices that we use, the systems we use, the software and that this hides a global problem. We are not facing anything special compared to what other countries are facing. Hacking attacks have become more rules than incidents. In 2007, the U.S. Estonia, as the leading country in the information society, was blocked by a two-week cyber attack, and two years ago, an attempt to attack a nuclear power plant in South Korea, a cyber attack on Sona, has been reported by over a thousand US companies in the past two years, and has reported incidents and attacks by hackers and that all these challenges have affected the need to find one systemic response to the problems encountered in the field of information security. Of course, Serbia is no exception to that, and you are the witnesses yourself, because two years ago we had a hacker attack on the Digital Agenda Administration site, two years ago an attack on the SPC site, an attack on the Privatisation Agency site, an attack even on a court in Nis, a hacker attack. Therefore, Serbia faces the same challenges facing the modern world, and in 2013, according to the MIP, there were 855 crimes in the area of high-tech crime, and in 2014, the number fell to 780 attacks, crimes that were registered. The problem is that so far there has been no obligation by any authority of the state and institution to report these incidents and we talk more about the dangers based on what we get in the media, which appears in the press and there is no unique register of all these incidents and attacks that occur in ICT systems in our country. Of course, these systems have functioned for themselves so far, there has been no coordination, there have been systems that are perfectly protected like the banking sector, such as the Telecommunications Sector and there have reached more or less of the highest standards in the area of risk protection. Other systems, as I said, are individually protected with more or less success, but no coordination, surveillance has been in this respect either, or the obligation to report incidents happening. It's actually a key reason why we're passing this law, it should allow three things to happen, it's to define protection measures against security risks in ICT systems. Second, to establish the responsibility of legal persons who manage these systems and third things, to determine which authorities are responsible for the implementation of the safeguard measures. What is the key question of what systems does this law refer to? It will be established, and therefore the law provides, a clear list, the government will establish a clear list of all the systems to which it applies, but in any case, that the law will refer to information-communication systems which are of particular importance because they do business or carry out activities that are of general interest to the wider community and whose security breach would cause enormous damage both to the state and society. There are three groups of these systems. First, they're public authorities. So, the authorities of the state administration, various agencies, courts, prosecutors. Also, they're local self-government units. Therefore, all these systems will be subject to the application of this law. The second group of systems refers to those who process particularly sensitive data. So it's about data on nationality, religiousity, raciality, medical data. So, in all those cases where the discovery of that data could endanger the privacy of the individual. The third group of systems refers to those performing a general interest activity. These are systems dealing with production, distribution, transport of electricity, coal production and processing systems, oil and oil processing systems, these are systems dealing with electronic communications, military equipment, health protection. All these systems will be covered by the provisions of this law, as well as various financial institutions, banks, savings banks, insurance houses, stock exchanges. Therefore, this is a whole leprosy of institutions, but it will be defined very clearly by the government's decision, each institution individually. What's their obligation? It is their obligation for all these institutions to adopt a security act setting out clear safeguards for all these systems. There must be an appropriate person, an executive who will deal with protection, conditionally said in his house, it will be some kind of fire department that will react in the event of incidents or hacker attacks on these systems. They need to control themselves and actually report on the security checks of all these systems. As far as authorities are concerned, there is no single competent authority here, there is nowhere in other countries. There are several authorities in charge of different jobs. The Ministry of Information Society Affairs shall have executive powers when we talk about competences, because the inspection bodies will be within this ministry, and the inspection will be able to control all these systems that I have spoken of, whether this security act has been adopted, whether protection measures are applied, whether they are being carried out in time, and if the provisions of this law are not respected or what is provided for by the law are not done, the inspection will be able to file infringements as well. The second body or body responsible for the implementation of this law, i.e. the protection measures to be implemented, will be within the framework of RATEL. It's a national centre for prevention and protection against safety risks. It has no executive authority, and I must say that in the public debate, there was controversy whether or not to give this body executive powers. The problem was that neither country has the national CERT powers required during the public debate. This body monitors, this body warns, takes care of possible incidents that may occur. What will be the main jurisdiction, that it co-operates with other similar bodies that exist in other countries, because these incidents rarely happen in only one country. We have a situation that practically all these incidents are even, and often, they happen simultaneously in the territory of several countries. It is also the third body to be established that is the CERT of the Republic authorities to deal with, to carry out activities relating to the protection against incidents in ICT systems of the republican authorities. It will have some more operational competences and functions than this national CERT that will be within the framework of Ratel. And the fourth body, it will be within the Ministry of Defence, so the authority responsible for security and protection against compromised electromagnetic radiation. As the crown of all these bodies or bodies, we will also have a body for the coordination of information security affairs involving all these bodies, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and then the General Secretariat of the Government, representatives of the security services. It will be as the name says, a literally coordinating body that will exchange information and propose activities and measures to protect against security risks in different systems. What is the essence of this law? Very short. So the goal we want to achieve with this law is to increase the level of protection and security in the country's information and communication systems. When it is achieved, it means more protection of human rights, it means protection of privacy, it means protection of individuals. The second goal we achieve by this law is to raise awareness of institutions, bodies, especially citizens about the dangers that exist unless we protect enough information and communication systems. These are the two key goals this law achieves. It will be necessary to pass as many as 11 sublegislative acts after the adoption of this law, so that it can be fully implemented and that the implementation of the law itself is certainly a much harder job than its adoption here in the Assembly. We are prepared to accept all those amendments, suggestions, proposals that will improve this legislative proposal during the debate and the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46549	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46550	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reporting the position of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, which, at its session in the presence of the proposing representatives, discussed in principle the proposal for a law on information security. During the detailed explanations of the proposed measures, representatives of the ministry highlighted the importance of the proposed solutions for the daily practice of a society which, in a significant extent, benefit from information and communication technology. It also highlights the importance of forming additional efforts to make regulation in this important area more comprehensive, which is precisely achieved by the proposed law. Thirdly, the importance of the international aspect is highlighted, both in the context of Serbia's European integration and in the context of interstate co-operation, which certainly dictates the dimension of the challenges in information and communication security. During the discussion, members of the Committee agreed with these impressions. They also confirmed, and for their part, further stressed both the national and international aspects of further improvements in business activities, as well as scientific and research work, in this particular area. Speaking by voting, all present members of the Committee supported the proposal unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46551	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? Can I conclude, no one? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46552	I felt that it was not necessary to say unequivocally that the proposal for a law on advertising had simply received unanimous support for the vote in plenary, but as a representative, an authorised representative of the SNS could say that it was high time for such a law to be passed, i.e. that it was one of the first steps that were very important, especially to solve one area that had a lot of problems so far. First of all, we had a time when many events in that market were overcome, where advertisers were also simple, but also users of advertising services, i.e. consumers themselves, were quite unprotected. This bill gives us an orderly system and precisely defined narrowness and extends the sense of advertising. If we present advertising as a kind of promotion of all economic operators in order to improve market conditions for its economic development, then if we look at a particular economic operator in particular, then we see that it is part of promotional activities, but that it is an integral part of each business of a particular company, that each company has to separate a certain part for marketing, and how it will do that, we have so far had a lot of overcome models, as you said, advertising. Today, we are becoming increasingly involved in the part relating to electronic advertising and much of it is covered by the Information Act, which is the Ministry of Culture, through that set that this Assembly adopted, defined when it refers to electronic media and media houses, but what is important to say that you have now protected a number of things by this bill, introduced a single order. So you said exactly how the advertiser must behave on the market, then, whoever advertises, means he can also be a mediator by the advertisers themselves, but also the user of that information, i.e. a citizen as a consumer, must not be deceived. This is the biggest and deepest problem that I think is always happening on the market and where are consumers themselves always in a dilemma whether they have cheated with certain information or not? But what is important is to say that, given that Serbia is on the path of European integration, given that the SAA must also apply every year around us a report on this, and also the EU on which we are on the road, on which we have reached the scale in implementing these general harmonisation of European directives, it should be said that these three directives are very important to be adopted in this area, which is Directive 114 from 2006, that 33 of 2003, from the year 2010, from 13. So, why does she matter? Because it simply encourages the market, encourages competition, which is very important, because with the promotion of competition around consumers should be more protected because the price of goods and services should fall. What you said today, for example, online sales became our daily life, and what you said 10 years ago wasn't the case, it almost didn't know about social networks or online sales. It's just that today we have to adapt to new trends in the market. After all, our children, too, are becoming more informatively educated in some way, and we are being preceded by parents in that part and somewhere, and they are informing us more than we are following ourselves, so that what we are doing today and setting up some pillars of the development of the information society, and in some way advertising and the functioning of the daily market, you are essentially showing this law that we are introducing a new face of Serbia when we speak in the field of advertising. The newspapers that have been defined, as we see now, especially Article 2 correctly define the rights and obligations of advertisers, but what is important is that the promotional messages themselves should now be precisely defined. The ban on advertising in order to deceive consumers is now sanctioned and Article 7 correctly lists restrictive circumstances to which, simply if you cross these measures, you are punished, then, the kind of incentive that certain behaviours are banned on the market when it comes to advertising are also defined by this law and that is very good. It is good that all elements of the offer within the declaration must now be correctly highlighted. I'll tell you what, let's say, we lack, for example, from the area of agriculture itself, when we talk about genetically modified organisms, let's say, what doesn't exist on a precisely defined declaration exactly defined percentage, let's say GMOs, which makes the consumer informed as much of it, whether he buys a particular product or not. That's what Serbia really needs to work on. You have now through your legal proposal in a certain way obliged advertisers to through certain declarations, and the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, in the future will have to deal adequately with the fact that the declarations are strictly filled out and that the advertiser is responsible if such declarations do not advertise. So what you said was that there was liberalisation in the advertising of alcoholics on the one hand stands when it comes to not defining the part where the types of drinks are concerned, but it's good that it's pointed out in which time periods exactly termologically you're allowed to advertise and in a certain way you left the catering sector, not only when it comes to drinks and tobacco, they have certain advertising tables on which they will not be banned, which is of great importance to them themselves. In the end, I would say, as far as this legislative proposal is concerned, that he passed a public hearing almost a year ago, meaning, from January 3rd to February 3rd last year, he passed the consent of the European Commission and there are good reasons why this law should be adopted. Of course, a group of MPs who are in the framework of the Economic Cocussus also accepted some proposals from certain business entities that have given some better interpretations, especially when it comes to minors. I think it's been dragged through the entire law, and that's why you have that large number of amendments. But I think they really bring a decadent arrangement when it comes to advertising and when it comes to market participation at all, both minors and consumers, as well as important. The second part of today's package that we are considering is a law relating to the regulation of cyberspace, according to modern ITists today in their exhibitions, that is, security in their information space. When we talk about this, we should say that you may not have had the opportunity to hear in your ministry, but on 10 September, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs had a public debate, or a public hearing on the subject of the existing legal institutional framework of cybersecurity of the Republic of Serbia, where, with the help of certain experts from the non-governmental sector, they were really considering this topic in detail, but not just for the sake of security itself, because this committee organised it, but because experts from countries from the region came in and simply realized that they were not sufficient at the speed of reacting, that the information society, and there was a logic that the technique was always much faster than social sciences, so that in general social sciences were somehow always coughing for the technique, but that this cyber space was quite unregulated, or there was no order, there were no security measures in the region and that the countries in the region realized that they needed to work together in order to ensure this space and the protection that they would be common. What is important to say is that they have made certain conclusions on this matter, which is that the defence system itself that needs to be rounded up is precisely the adoption of this law, but also the adoption of a strategy that will talk about the security of the information space at all, and what is important is that the EU request is somewhere and pushing us, because in 2013, the EU has just adopted the Information Security Strategy, so that it is up to us to lead that way, but that the measures that need to be implemented are safe and given to this bill, to define those components that relate to public private partnerships and also to the adoption and regulation of international co-operation, both in the region and those that bind us within the EU. It is necessary to welcome the establishment of a National Information Security Council, as well as a national body that needs urgent response if certain attacks occur in this space. When we talk at all about what access through this law is given, I think it is almost clear to everyone why it is the Ministry of Telecommunications, because it should gather all relevant entities in society that are able to protect, after all, the information space, but also the approach of a multidisciplinary, i.e. that many ministries should participate in this. I think this bill really speaks of Serbia being extremely responsible, and this government is referring to this topic. We've never done that before. So, all those who talked about it being there, they just didn't move their fingers. You are the first to enter practically with such a law in front of the MPs and in general in front of Serbia, and should indeed be commended. In a certain way, this should be promoted in public, that Serbia is a necessary law, with which we simply take care of safety and people and material goods, but above all of our descendants. In Voting Day, it is certain that such proposals will be accepted by the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46553	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has an authorised SPS representative, Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46554	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and his associates, we seem to be at the end of this term, but that is no reason not to adopt reform laws and not to gather again in a new assembly and to be even more committed to improving our country in every respect. It is somewhat symbolic, but above all it is fair that we will adopt a better law, in line with the best EU practices that regulate advertising. In this way, we will have even more honest choices and answers to the misunderstandings that bring us the new media. They develop faster than legitimate activity itself. However, one thing is for sure, that in the new SPS summit and its coalition partners will be even more significant, for the simple reason that good work cannot be hidden. I'd go first of all from the Information Security Act. For many years, the biggest stock of our information security was the slow introduction of an electronic public administration solution and above all the limitations of public services and their availability to citizens on-line. Also, there were problems in the communication between state authorities and institutions, so citizens were very often, so to speak, free writers between state institutions. There was something about laws that were out of line, something to the lack of a strategy on the introduction of an electronic administration, and we can say that there was something to the resistance of those who feared for their jobs and for some privilege, legal or illegal, and something to the mere fear of innovation. Serbia is similar in this regard to other societies that are entering something new. We've entered the e-Government. Everyone who wants to see the advantage of it has a chance to see them at every step, and even more to see for themselves how much more work there is. However, there is another side to information technologies and networking, which is data security. Today information is all, and leaks of information and their abuse are problems and problems that are for the government and all those who care about national security as dangerous as, freely as I can say, a threat to terrorism. Citizens are at greater risk of stealing identities and sensitive data than stealing from a secure apartment. An example of the "Robin Hudova" information, as I would say, which many people in Serbia today admire, such as Snouden and Asang, can only show how much damage unauthorized access to information or a wrongly set system can do. If that happened in the U.S., a country that's probably a leader in ICT, in the amount of sensitive data and protecting them, it says it's never too much of a distraction. As sensitive as this is, it best illustrates the following example. Over the past two years, more than a thousand American companies have reported incursions to their systems and this number is growing unsustainably. In a virtual attack on the U.S. chain of commerce during 2013, one of the chains, I don't name it to be a covert advertising, which would be the proposal of this second law that I'm going to discuss later, lost data on more than 40 million credit cards. The break-in into the information system was reported by one of the largest trade chains in America, with over 2,200 stores – 60 million arrested warrants. In May 2014, I-Bay had to admit that the compromised orders were more than 100 million users of this service, which is probably the biggest cyber break-in in Internet history. The actual number of damaged is far higher, because many companies don't even know what hit them. The company mentioned earlier discovered a system break-in for only five months, imagine, after the incident. I also have to rely on what the minister said in his opening statement, and he cited that example, and I'm going to say a little bit more in detail what it looks like, just as a clear example of what we can expect in the future, although we are all warning this bill, is that the worst has passed, it is true, Minister, Estonia, and the reason was because the bronze monument is a Russian soldier from World War II, who was supposed to move from Tallinn to their periphery. After these protests, which were organised, and where hundreds of people were arrested, a massive DDOS attack on Estonia was launched with over 85,000 locations around the world, which practically paralyzed the Estonian banking system, state institutions, news portals for several days, which was a huge problem for Estonia. Simply, the people are used to using all the benefits of the Internet. They had to be helped by NATO experts, and the crisis was under control only when Estonia cut off from the Internet and the world after. The Minister of Defence of Estonia then said that only happiness helped to survive this. I must point out that American President Obama has repeatedly announced that he takes these threats seriously. Cyber dangers are among the greatest economic and security challenges facing the American nation. It also sounds similar to the forecast of a former CIA chief from 2011 who expects the next Pearl Harbor to happen in the cyber world. Obama has repeatedly said the internet is a strategic national resource that will be more aggressively defended. I must point out, just to be clear, that the 2016 draft budget provided the U.S. government 14 billion dollars to better protect federal and private networks against hacker threats. Federal financing of cybersecuritism has been constantly growing in the last few years, reflecting the intensity of threats to US companies and government agencies facing cyber attacks both domestic and foreign. That the situation is serious and that the fact that the head of cyber coma is i.e. Cyber command appointed General Kate Alexander, director of the National Security Agency. Similarly, many others, including Russia, Great Britain, Israel, North Korea, China, Iran, who boasts of owning the second largest cyber army in the world. Smart people all this is reason enough. It also raises the question of balance between the need to protect data and the need to keep it public. There is a nice balance between protection and public and precise definition that all has the right to access data. These are issues that are the core of understanding, that is, the need for the safety and carefree life of our children and the safe life of our citizens and the need for public authority to be carried out in a public way. We can finally pass the best laws, but attacks on information systems will happen. We are part of the world's puzzle and we are part of a large system of co-operation between states that see freedom, democracy and the rule of law as their posts. So we have to have solutions to what to do if the system is broken and the damage is minimized. Data protection is now an equally important aspect of the protection of freedom, as once was the protection of national borders. The ICT Act provides an excellent basis for the peaceful sleep of our citizens, the security that these data will not be misused by insiders or outsiders. It's only part of the entire protection mosaic, as well as national security and personal data, and only if it's consistent with other laws and strategies can it give its full results. This is the case in this proposal, and it is consistent, as I have already said, with EU legal bankruptcy, other domestic laws and is a basic system law in the area of security. He will, of course, be upgraded. As public administrations continue to be introduced, services modernised and co-operation with partners abroad strengthened. When it comes to the second law that is before us today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the Law of Advertising. And we believe from the SPS that he's coming at the right time. The elections are on the line, although in fact we have extraordinary elections on a regular basis and regular elections are a state of emergency, so it's not bad to arrange a new area in a more comprehensive way. It's a joke on the side. It's important, but above all, it's important that we follow reality, and I remember perfectly well the time when it was passed, now the advertising law has already been overcome. No one could even assume at that time how much "online" business will advance in our country, how much social networks will advance, how much advertising will be generated, how much our legislative regulations will be ambiguous and powerless when false practices or unethical actions occur in this area. The law allows us to catch up with time and set the law to suit the development of information technologies. We have used all available achievements, again, it is our destiny, to use the available achievements of EU countries and we have sought the best possible ways to choose those that are best suited to our country. Also, we've been looking for a way to keep this law going long enough for us to leave room for it to be complemented as time goes by. Imagine 2017, when virtual reality will be a product that will move from the early launch phase to the growth stage. Imagine using a hologram, what can we do by using new Gegets? The whole world opens up in front of us, the world of communication, advertising, business, and we need to be prepared to follow it and to have the basis to apply principles that are thousands of years old, and that create a bonding right in the world of modern technologies and that are born and outdated during only one congregation term, though, that happens more rarely. Of course, we're not just dealing with dynamic new technologies in the Advertising Act. Some of the old media are going through the challenges of new uses. We try and manage to be fiscally responsible, and we act accordingly. Good advertising regulation creates a basis for not watering the gray economy. Good regulation creates a basis for not burying the courts with litigation that has no end and that we do not react and that we do not cultivate deceitful behavior through laws that allow all and who are deprived of their contents. So, all in all, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we received a temporary break, but in the next, at least a month, we should try to do as it has been since day one. We must stand firm in the mission of modernization and regulation of our country. We must overcome every injustice and stand firm on that task. Above all, knowing that any majority will find it difficult to find more committed to reforming and transforming Serbia into a normal European state, as the best, we will continue to contribute to improving legal activities. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46555	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the ministry, fellow MPs, two laws ahead of us, according to the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, SDS – Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, are a good step towards regulating the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, towards harmonising our rules with European regulations and above all should make life easier for citizens. Perhaps reducing the exposure to economic messages, which today, through various media, is the fact that since the last time, that is, when the previous law was passed, just over 10 years ago, the media most often used today did not even exist, so it was necessary to implement a single innovation of the Advertising Act. Also, the Information Security Act is something that has never existed in Serbia's legal system before, and is a major step that should allow the security of data that is being collected daily in places where we are aware, and even more so in ways and places where we are not aware, about all of us. Often and these days, we can read about how certain data has reached the hands of those in whom they should not be and how various abuses are possible today, that is, this time in which we live and who we go, can lead to the fact that practically the whole life of a particular person does not exist if all the data in an electronic database is deleted. There's less working on paper and today, tomorrow, we can find ourselves in a situation where someone, pressing one button, can practically wipe us off the face of the earth. But, well, this Information Security Act needs to prevent that, and we're going to support this law. We will see what its application will be, surely, at a time of great information development and change that this law will also require change. It is a good thing that a state body is being accompanied by work in these areas, primarily to make sure that the data collected in the state authorities is well protected. The minister said that banks, telecommunications companies have quite well-protected systems, they invest a lot in it, the state sometimes lacks enough resources, it may not even have enough awareness of how potentially dangerous data abuse is. I think that in the next time through the application of this law, we will all become more aware, that we will be more responsible for the data that is being collected about all of us today in various ways. I would like a few sentences and most of all I would like to talk about the Law on Advertising, our MP group has given some amendments, in principle I would like to say that they are going towards even more restrictive regulation of the possibility of advertising tobacco products, alcoholic beverages and content that can refer to pornographic content. In that sense, we suggested that it be completely, let me say, disabled and what is in the article, it seems to me, the 56th law tells me what is not considered under the advertising of tobacco products, and we put it to be considered. We think advertising is in our opinion when citizens can see it. You come on a trafic to buy something, maybe a baby lollipop, and there's an "lcd" screen on which stands the logo of a particular company that sells a tobacco product, and then it's not considered advertising under this law. We think it's advertising and it shouldn't be allowed. In hypermarkets, you come to the register, and there's a huge boxing where there are cigarettes with a particular brand, on the register, where it says – a cash register for people who come with small children. Of course, nothing is ideal, especially large tobacco producers, alcoholic drink producers have had great experience and this struggle has been going on for decades. As advertising restrictions set in motion, they find new ways to advertise their product, and countries in various ways, through various experiences, if they want to implement such a policy, watch how to limit it. By this law and by accepting our solutions, it is certain that this fight will not be over. It will continue, there will be new ways around the law and through the application of new technologies and some of the experiences that these companies are, and these are mostly large multinational companies that work all over the world, and then in some countries they try something and see it work, and then they start to apply it in other countries. We think that smoking is a harmful vice, that it costs the state a lot and that advertising tobacco products is unnecessary. That's why we suggested that this law be even more restrictive as far as it goes. Also, we have similar arguments about a more restrictive approach to advertising alcoholic beverages regardless of what the minister said was different now. The law on strong alcoholic beverages has made different definitions for mild and strong alcoholic beverages. We think advertising strong alcoholic beverages is unnecessary in this time of 23 hours to six in the morning. We also consider the unnecessarily left opportunity to allow in electronic media after midnight advertising of content that points to pornography and that it is necessary, and through some amendments we have proposed, additional protection of minors from various advertising. What we think is bad in this law, I think, is a few things. The first thing is, we're going to have, uh, elections over the next few months, and I found it interesting the way the law predicted poster stickers. When elections start, you know everyone, posters are used in campaigns, they are also in places that are defined for it, and much more often in places that are not defined for it. I think, of course, the law should prescribe places where posters are allowed to be glued or possibly other advertising facilities, but what kind of license to place posters in a place that has already been set up to ask for posters from whoever sets them up? It seems to me in Article 40, 42, neither do I. I don't know what kind of permission it's required to be in a place that's already been assigned to place a poster on it. As I do not understand it, especially at the time of the campaign, there in one member is called on to talk about a way to set up a billboard and to call a competition, determine the local self-government of the area where it can be done, and then about some other forms of advertising on the street, says – the same procedure as for setting up a billboard, which includes competition, the plan annually. When the campaign starts, it is practically impossible to perform and practically put the whole part of political advertising on the means of “dor adertizing” into a gray zone, or illegal zone. I think you should see the possibility of considering that a slightly simpler procedure for that is made possible, of course by making sure that after the election our cities don't look like, let's say, that they've been through the typhoon and that they're in some chaos, chaos and mess. Also, the criminal provisions of this law are defined in one article. Quite strictly defined monetary amounts, for example, are said to be between 300,000 and 2 million dinars for legal persons, but then thirty-one points are numbered where there are within that amount of funds, including the setting of posters, and a permit or possibly in a place where it is not allowed, and together with this is the change and advertising of tobacco products. Now some multinational tobacco company to pay a sum of two million dinars is probably no problem, and maybe some concert of some young rock and roll group that makes a poster so put it somewhere on a wall where it's not allowed, now maybe ask them to ask for two million dinars, even if 300 thousand dinars, I think it's too much and we think that all violations in this law are practically within that range of fines of 300 thousand to two million, which we don't think is appropriate. Finally, for me it is completely unclear in the transitional and final provisions why was it left to remain valid for members of 86th and 87th of the Old Advertising Act, which speak of the advertising of state authorities? If these two members should still exist in the legal system somehow, it was logical for them to be found in the law itself, not for two members of an old law to remain like this, and now we're passing a whole new advertising law. I'm not a lawyer, they tell me it's possible, but it's just unusual for me to propose the law that way. These two members could also be rewritten from the old law, continued to apply, so that when someone looks at the law, all advertising rules could be found in one place, not now looking for an old law, so which members are in force, which are not valid. Unfortunately, we have not been able to intervene with any amendments. Is there perhaps some way clear that our legal system would act as neatly as possible, which I suppose is also the proposal when he proposed this law to make our advertising sphere as neat as possible? We're not even aware today of all the moments we're exposed to advertising. All the content, whatever you open, whether it's a newspaper, whether you're walking down the street, that, of course, you're watching television, there's advertising everywhere that, as the law itself once defines here, cloaked advertising. Various things in these years have been developed by advertisers and will continue to develop ways to address consumers. We are not even aware of the amount of all these messages we receive every day. This law is a step forward from this previous one, and I hope the Minister and the Government will support our intention to make even more restrictive legal solutions in the case of advertising tobacco products, alcoholic beverages and content that point to pornography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46557	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46558	Let's start with the last remark you made. It will be corrected through amendments. It is really illogical for these two members to be in transitional and final provisions. Another thing about posters on public surfaces at the level of local self-government. It's not about, if you've seen, Article 42, about cumulative. Therefore, advertising on a poster to be placed on a public surface is allowed if, under one or two, the public area for the establishment of posters by means of a unit of local self-government designated for those purposes or for the establishment of posters on the public surface requires permission of a unit of local self-government upon obtaining that authorisation. So, not one or the other, but one or the other. Surely the dilemma will always remain tied to the restriction, related to advertising and alcoholic beverages and cigarettes. As far as tobacco and tobacco products are concerned, we have fully accepted all and conventions of the Council of Europe and the European Union Directive. As for alcohol, given that it is quite widespreadly defined even in practice in EU countries, if you compare it all, you will see that we belong to a group of countries that have a more restrictive approach to advertising alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Perhaps it could have been more restrictive, I said that Norway completely prohibits advertising alcoholic beverages in printed media, that in electronic media the image is also quite a charm from country to country. We tried to, let's put it on condition, find some environment, on the one hand, the need of industry, whatever, and on the other hand, consumer protection, that is, to point to harmfulness, that is, these vices, when we talk about alcohol and tobacco. So this warning message will also be delivered, the contents of that message will be very clear, decided, which speaks of the harmfulness of alcohol, and we haven't changed anything for the tobacco, there are already rules that define it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46559	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MPs Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46560	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ministers of what is good, and all the time since I've been an MP, I've been stressing that it's a very good thing that laws go through long public debates and that professional public, those who are interested can influence, make suggestions. It is a bit unusual and that MPs also point out that praise ministers for the laws that go through public debates, because it should be constant, it should be a normal thing. However, a large number of laws come without a public debate, it is very important that as MPs we point out that we are putting pressure on ministers that the laws must pass public debates. Both laws have passed a long public debate and a long public debate. I see that you have also adopted a large number of suggestions from the professional public which is commendable. You responded to my main complaint regarding the Law on Advertising, so that is, as well as my colleague Djurisic, that was my objection, and it was the Agency for Combating Corruption and the work of the professional public, which is advertising public institutions. We'll agree it's a serious area for corruption. It is not clear why, for example, companies that have monopolies on the market are advertised in the media in which they advertise. It's a good thing we're going to discuss this in an amendment process. I'm very interested. It was unusual for two members of the old law to regulate one major matter like this, and to admit, I was prepared to support this kind of law that you said today -- yes, but we are working on a new law that will regulate the entire sphere of public advertising by the authorities, public institutions. I repeat, a vast area of corruption. It's not something that happens a year, two or three backwards, it happens 20 years ago, and it's good when you come with a new law to talk about it. Then we continue the debate, when it's in particular. As far as the Information Security Act is concerned, first, step forward. A serious step forward, however, my objections go one way that if the threats are great, why today applies if you're not online, if you're not online, you don't actually exist, it's your ID card. Today, the entire society has moved online, complete business, complete communication. I won't make a mistake if I say he's moved on the Internet his whole life. Simply, proportionate to the expansion of the sphere, it spreads proportionally and threatens all those who are the factors of this society that is expanding, and these are all citizens of the global world in Serbia, over five million Internet users. In Serbia, a few years ago, an incident occurred that a database with over five million data was published by five million citizens, Serbian citizens. What happened then? Slow reactions, bureaucracy, informed the Commissioner of information of public importance, so the Citizens' Protector, until they've been downloaded from the Internet, and the consequences are unknown. That is why it is important to form CERT, the National Risk Prevention Centre, which is very important, however, which is my objection. You made a soft model, so to speak, with some powers when we know the threats are serious, large. Your explanation is – come on, let's make it so we can see how it develops. I say -- too many threats are moving fast, they're developing, they're too big to make one body with soft powers now, and then to agree, to improve it, to change the law. My proposal was to immediately discuss, create a more serious body with greater powers that might better prevent cyber crime and cyber terrorism and all those threats that lurk online today and online. This is my main grudge. Secondly, there is no law when we form this national centre. We don't know, the election's coming, it's not going to happen in the next six months for sure. Eleven sublegal acts, there were more, you decreased. You've been pointed out by the professional public through a public debate. In part, you adopted that remark, reduced the number of sublegal acts, but it's also 11 too many. Practice says that when we have 11 sublegal acts, I believe that in a year we'll discuss this simply that it's inadmissible. If you don't pass all 11 sublegal acts, this law will be almost inadmissible. That could happen in a year. We've already had serious threats, we've already had one incident that's caused serious damage. We don't know what's gonna happen in a month or two or three, and we're not gonna have a National Security Prevention Center. We won't have one functional law unless you bring 11 sublegal acts. Too much, Minister, that's my grudge. So, greater powers to the National Centre. Faster adoption, if you do not adopt amendments, and it is difficult to correct it with amendments, unless your Ministry is agile in adopting sublegal acts, all of this remains a dead letter on paper and someone said – citizens will be able to sleep peacefully. Not unless you bring in a sublegal act, until we see how this law is implemented, no one can sleep peacefully. I say, every citizen, because a database of nearly five million people has been published. It is a serious threat to the security of every Serbian citizen and every Serbian citizen. Another thing, when the incident took place, was first contacted the Public Information Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector, they are today not in the form of bodies co-ordinated by security. They just have to be in the composition of this body. If we contact them first, and they're not, the information is lost in the bureaucracy again and they're not going to the right place. This is my proposal to adopt, through the amendment process, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Citizens as part of the body for the coordination of information security affairs. I am prepared to follow this law as an MP, to follow the adoption of sublegal acts and to make this sphere truly safe or safer for all citizens of Serbia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46561	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a minister, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46562	It's true we've had a very long public discussion. I'd even say too long. The practical public debate was in January of last year, and precisely for the reasons we wanted to hear and after the public debate ended, all the objections, suggestions, proposals to improve this text, we were late to adopt this legal solution. It is also true that there was a very slow reaction in the case of the incident you're talking about, and in fact, the main reason for this law to be passed. It was not known which body to report such a major incident and it was not the only one before that international organisations, or national CERTs of other countries, had no one to report incidents or to report incidents that could happen. So it's undeniable that this was one area that was completely unsettled, but from that comes the main reason why this law is necessary. I would also agree that there are a lot of sublegal acts, but this is a living thing and living matter that changes literally no more in years, but in months, and this is one roof law that sets standards, especially when we talk about protection measures and when we talk about monitoring the implementation of this law, or safeguard measures. We've left it deliberately to sublegal acts to adapt to reality, reality and the development of technologies that flow unsuspectingly, and to which we have to adapt. However, we predicted that these 11 sublegal acts would be passed within 12 months, but there were two amendments, one, I think MEPs to cut it to three months which is objectively not realistic and the second amendment I don't know who submitted to cut the deadline to six months, we found it as some medium solution. So, in the next six months, all 11 sublegal acts will be brought in, because you're right, because if we don't, this law will remain either a list of good wishes or a dead letter on paper. The last thing, it was also the main dilemma in the public debate over the authority of the National CERT. So most of the participants gave this kind of remark. Why does the National CER not have operational, or executive powers? But if we give executive authority, the question is, where are these inspections going to be supervised, controlled, who's going to write reports, where are they going to be put? We have resorted to one solution, the first one that is present in all EU countries and on the other hand we have resorted to a solution that in practice can be more, better, more successful for the ministry in charge of these affairs to have executive powers, and that the National CERT has all these other powers in terms of warning, analysis, reviewing the situation at global level, giving recommendations to all the institutions in the land what to do about it, and we will not solve this dilemma by this legislative proposal either, it will surely remain representatives, or people who have given these suggestions to give CERT's greater executive powers will continue to do so. We believe that this is a good solution, that it is more operational, that it will be more efficient, and that the National CERT will not lose anything again. When we talk about its importance in the country's information security field, especially about protecting the measures that need to be applied by ICT systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46563	I thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46564	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two laws before us today. The advertising law and the Information Security Act. These laws regulate different areas, but they still have something in common. One refers to trade, i.e. promotion of manufacturers and products and finding the best way to the citizens, i.e. the consumer. Others, to protect all those who are users of Internet services in general information communications. Their common point is the new models of information communications, the easy and quick transfer of information and knowledge, the provision of services, different types of availability of goods and products, but also the availability of different data and about personality, as well as on state affairs. So we are in a new time, in the 21st century, a century of new relationships and communication which requires new knowledge from all of us, respect for new rules, i.e. communication, broad information, speed of response in data protection that is of particular importance. So they are common and these laws, both rely on new technologies, adopt new rules, given the speed of their change, must rapidly change laws and adapt to the conditions in practice and what exists in each other's relations. The first draft advertising law is a kind of promotion of economic operators, but so that they do not violate the rules of open market communication, advertising, always and everywhere, must be subject to certain rules, to objectively display the product of the difference between individual parties, but by maintaining an equal competition and allowing the arrival of the right products to end customers, or consumers. Subjects and participants in this process, as we can see from this law, but what we can feel and see in life and in practice are very different and there are many in this chain, and these are, as a producer, the transporter of advertising messages, advertiser, distributor and consumer, which is essentially the ultimate goal. The aim of advertising is, as we said, to encourage the competition, legal certainty, improved consumer standards. It's a creative industry today, and I'd say it's art today, for the benefit of advertising, all the producers, consumers, but also state based on the taxes they collect. The presentation of a product, i.e. advertising must be subject to certain rules that will provide objectively, highlighting the quality of certain goods and services and the same attitude towards all, the sustainability of fair fight on the market, what this law provides and what it regulates. Advertising that began a long time ago, we can say a century ago, it was usually before commercials or we called them that, today, there was a very developed dynamic industry that, by means of various, written and audiovisual means, found its way to consumers, "with the aim of increasing their standard". I will place even signs of allegations there, given that various abuses, information that comes to consumers, and then an objective question can be asked whether there is always everywhere for every manufacturer and service provider, the aim of increasing the consumer standard or the purpose of the profit that the manufacturer wants to achieve. Given the openness of the market and communication, this regulation is very dynamic and therefore should not be surprised that the rules are constantly changing, they are adopting new laws that must be in line with the state of advertising on the market, not only with the modern laws that are prescribed in the EU, which harmonize our legislation in the accession process. This law is very dissociative and over 80 members are trying to regulate all facilities, conditions and relations on the market, in the process of advertising and consumer fighting. I would say that for me, the two most important chapters, the chapter that regulates the general rules, are members of the law from four to 20, as well as the specific rules relating to specific situations, areas of protection, specific entities such as children, young people, etc., which must be protected, and the third chapter that attracts us special attention is very important, these are actually criminal provisions. It would be ideal for life itself to go by the rules and the way it's written. Then our ads, as we call them popularly, would be easier in many situations, more acceptable, would have more trust in them, as well as in the goods that we receive as well as in producers, in the declaration of quality and composition of goods, on the duration of a particular product, country of origin, conditions of sale of goods, prices, market conditions etc. It's all important. All of this law is being touched in order to gain as much profit as possible, and unfortunately money is now with many and only God, it is very present to refer to the market, unfortunately not to respect rules, professional ethics, as well as the right of the customer, i.e. consumer to accurate, fair and comprehensive information. That's why, what's good with this law is laying down rules, responsibilities, but also penalties, what does this law definitely do? It seems to me that a precise criminal policy has been given here, a clear measure, which is also the particular meaning of this law. However, with a special instruction or other sublaw, it must be specified when the lowest is expressed, and when the highest penalty is not to develop the practice that the lowest penalty is the most acceptable and that is to the greatest extent applied, and then for the advertiser, it turns out to be much less harm than it brings benefit from wrong, bad advertising, or not respect for this law. In particular, I will look back, in fact, on the importance of Articles 7, 10 and 11, for example, in which it is clearly said that misleading advertising is forbidden, that this refers to everything that has been said before, and what exists in the advertising, and in fact, all of us, or consumers, define that we buy certain goods. There is also a complete ban on advertising goods and services prohibited by law, such as alcohol and cigarettes. I'd especially like to say hello. In practice, cigarettes are a well-developed campaign on the inability to consume it in public places, banning its advertising, etc. I think there is a significant ban on advertising alcoholic beverages, given all the negative consequences that alcohol carries with it, on its availability generally in sales, even to young people, and especially in terms of safety, traffic safety, I think these penalties for the abuse of this must be very clear and appropriate. I will issue a special part of the law that draws attention to the ban on inciting behavior that affects the health and safety of the recipient of the advertising message. There have been abuses in practice here and in the international European community, of course we are not exempt from it, and it is good that this law prohibits, i.e. now special attention points to this phenomenon. Therefore, the clear ban prescribed by this law, the high penalty and the insistence on respecting this law, are a guarantee of better product quality and better consumer protection. Many unconscious merchants will not easily give up benefits and benefits that result in abuse and contempt of the law. So I'm saying that punishment is important, in some cases it could have been sharper, or differently built. But the ranges that have been offered both the least and the greatest penalties, those from 300 thousand to two million. Therefore, the work of the inspection, its presence and responsibilities on the ground, which will prescribe those penalties in accordance with the infringement, the damage, and in the end and in accordance with the intentions, is important. It is an important number and inspection that must always be trained, has to be made available to continuous education and innovation of knowledge, which I see increasingly present and is required in many professions, I think that also in the work of inspection services, this requirement for continuous innovations and certificates to carry out these tasks should also be present and therefore the overall protection of consumers will be better and greater. But in addition to this law, I would, in that sense, support the measures that this law makes and proposes. The second law we're discussing today, the Information Security Act, has been spoken of today. It would particularly welcome its proposal, as it will certainly contribute to greater security of information and information whether it is a person, or legal person, or state bodies. Information security in this growing world of communication is increasingly important. This is one of the preconditions for the creation and development of an information society, as outlined in the development strategy of the information society by 2020. The existing laws, and as the Minister's opening statement said, were over eight, which deal with issues in this area, did not adequately cover all issues and the appropriate legal framework in a single place, and in this sense, it can indeed be welcomed to adopt and propose such a law. In 2013, the European Community adopted a strategy for the security of the EU ICT system, where certain development guidelines were given. This law in this area is also our comprehensive harmonisation with the EU, but it, as I like to point out, is not important because of the EU, it is important for us and all such jobs must, above all, have our objective, our establishment of a single, good and quality system of state administration, our relationship with a citizen and our individual protection of personality or protection in this case system. Here, in addition to the introduction of clear measures and the establishment of regulatory bodies, there are various bodies at the level of organisation that are being organised and I would, of course, welcome and highlight their importance by vertical organisation, so that each of them could monitor the development of information technologies, security and protection in each of these areas. What is particularly important, I will point out, is the formation of a national CERT, or national security risk prevention centre in ICT systems. Its task would be to ensure coordination between the protection factors and monitoring the correct application of the prescribed protection measures, as well as inspection surveillance in the area of information security. What is important is that this ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Telecommunications, is intended to be responsible for the security of the ICT system and in general the whole process in the further development of this monitoring and development system of all future protection measures that will be necessary. These all jobs are intruding, as we have seen from the bill, as we know from practice, into various parts of the system of state administration, organisation and its organisation and in those areas which are of particular importance to the security and security of the state. So this applies to the defence authorities, the MUP, foreign affairs, justice and all security services, their coordination, their joint work, but also to the formation of a single national centre, I think that it will improve the security and security that we need, and in the previous debate, there are already examples that exist in our practice, in the international community where the invasion of security systems of particularly protected jobs, there is great damage and what special attention must be paid to. Of course, when it comes to this regulation, it must point out the importance of RATEČ, i.e. the regulatory agency for electronic communications and postal services, and also require and adapt their work and obligations in accordance with new relations in this system. The bill contains a special head, which refers to crypto-protection, which is crypto-security measures and protection against compromised electronic radiation. For the sake of more effective application, adequate inspection supervision should also be provided in this area and surveillance through inspectors, made available in each area of their work. Given the importance of jobs and width, it is necessary and I agree with that, to provide the appropriate resources necessary for technology, equipment and human resources. They are fully justified, they achieve their goal, and I am sure that in this area, especially in the coming years, we will have a lot of changes, a lot of other things that we will have to do in terms of security and personal individual protection, but also the protection of all the general state bodies. In any case, I personally welcome the adoption of both laws, and I think that it is a particularly significant step in this second one and I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote for them in the voting day. I am sure that the next campaign for new republican, i.e. total elections in the country will not greatly interfere with the work of services that are necessary, which will work on applying and creating conditions for these laws to be applied in the immediate future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46565	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46566	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the framework of this draft advertising law, we noticed that there are several of us unfinished details in that law. For example, in Article 5, which speaks of general advertising rules, i.e. on common establishment of specific business rules for the transporter of advertising messages in progress or after the software content, why is this only applicable to electronic media? We argue that it should also apply to printed media, as well as to advertising on the Internet and on its channels, because if we are calling for the necessity of objective information, this should apply to all kinds of media. Article 10 speaks of bans on encouraging the health and safety of citizens and it is perfectly formulated. We don't have any grudges here. But let us ask only one question – who will and how will control the above? So far, laws dealing with these or similar topics have not fully ensured the prevention of such phenomena. For example, for more than a year now, we have had a brutally economic-propagandal campaign where a toilet paper producer, instead of welcoming the recycling of paper as a kind of environmental protection, explains how recycling paper is harmful to health, and unlike his, as he calls it, natural. None of the regulatory bodies have responded to such and similar situations so far. Furthermore, Article 24 prohibits advertising of milk, other food and beverages for infants up to six months of age, as well as accessories for use. It is unclear who is at risk and does anyone think that unless milk and food are advertised for infants for up to six months, that baby will drink healthier milk and eat healthier food. I suppose there are certain institutions dealing with food quality control, especially baby food, so if manufacturers meet certain standards, I don't understand why they couldn't advertise and advertise their product. And if there is a product that harms babies, or is harmful on any basis, we believe that it should be banned in sales, not just through advertising. The position of the SNP is that any product that does not meet the standards, especially health, should be sanctioned and that all those who meet the standards should be allowed to participate in the competition through advertising. Article 35 puts the Public Service in a position of subordination compared to commercial television, in our opinion. So far, no one has controlled or timed a direct or hidden commercial program per hour of the broadcast program. Some emitters are known to devote almost half their content to a very commercial programme, not considering the current restrictions. The question arises – do we need a change of law or its full application? We hope that the application of Article 45, i.e. the ban on suggesting that participation in gambling solves almost all life's problems in our lives will affect the advertiser, in this case the State lottery of Serbia, to redefine its TV spots. The sponsorship is from the point of view of the recipient of financial or other support to attract funds and that is the definition. How is sponsorship not considered a situation where the media service provider participates in financing media services or software content? Why can content from, say, areas of culture not be sponsored? According to what criteria is it also stated that alcohol content up to 20% is not dangerous, like the one with more alcohol content than that? Why exactly is the level of alcohol below 20% considered harmless? How do you prove that for a minor and one whiskey is dangerous without being two or three or four beers? We believe that this bill should also include advertising of energy drinks, because in combination with alcohol, they are very dangerous substances. And, in voting day, the SNP will express its position on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46567	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46568	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as both laws are concerned, I can say that I will, of course, support them. As far as the Security of Information Act is concerned, it's very important, to me, because the world is moving faster and faster, technologically. Hackers are very capable people and sometimes very easily come up with certain information. That's why protection in this sense is very important. As far as advertising is concerned, I want to point out something that the law didn't cover, and I think we should include some other laws, unless there was a possibility that it would be covered by this law. Namely, what's this about? It's about what happened. NGOs and associations of citizens who are free to advertise between two election campaigns. We have here an NGO or an association, as others call it, and I think in our political life, two political organisations that call themselves movements and that are registered as citizens' associations, that is, what some NGOs say. It is a kind of falsification of political parties, therefore, political parties, and all of them know it here, among election campaigns it is forbidden to publish marketingly, advertise their activities in the media, and often even informing about the work of political parties some of the parties consider political propaganda, which is essentially not. The law does not prohibit NGOs from making marketing, although it is essential that political organisations avoid their political work, their funding and their advertising be placed under state control. We all know that political parties are forbidden to finance from abroad. All of us representing political parties know that, as we know, there is no ban on NGOs. If politicians are presented as leaders of various associations and NGOs, then they are allowed to finance from abroad and that the rule that has been seduced by political parties and to invest that money in advertising, because here, NGOs are not subject to the ban on advertising between two election cycles. Also, you should know about this, which may not be the subject of this law, that also various reports of financial nature and various advertising through sites that political parties have to expose to the competent authorities, NGOs do not have that kind of obligation. So it's about privileged political organisations, camouflaged political parties, forgeries of political parties. I appeal to the Government and to us as MPs to say once – enough with these twists, turns, twists, etc., which avoid the obligations that classical political parties have, and these associations are artificially avoiding and almost laughing in our faces. With that in mind, I think they can unpunishedly take money from abroad and advertise in the media and advertise between two election cycles, which we are not allowed to do. I think that should really get in the way. Also, I would like to welcome the fact that our law is more rigorous on alcohol than many European countries, because in some countries it is also allowed for strong alcoholic beverages, etc. We have a stricter law. Given the mentality of our nation, I think it's not bad, for us and the Russians to make these rules more rigorous, given our tendency to consume that martyrdom and that it is far more affordable and cheaper for us than it is in European countries. With that in mind, I'd like to say that we need to take care of wine advertising. For example, it cannot be from a certain company called "Enpresa", run by my fellow farmer, it disappears 139 thousand bottles of wine and it is reportedly directed to an organization called marketing, so not to say which for the purpose of advertising, although it is worth 89 million dinars. No commercial's done, the goods are gone. So 139 thousand bottles of wine that went missing, and apparently the marketing organization didn't have a storage space for that kind of goods at all, the services weren't done, there's no such warehouse space. I believe that the competent authorities should deal with this kind of missing goods, given that my colleague, when the goods were gone, was the director of the company and that the value was not negligible, that it was about 89 million. In this regard, it's not about the wine that was made in that famous winery, because it wasn't even made three drops for honor. So it's import-type wine that's untraceable. Also, I have to say that we have to make sure, apart from the legal rules, that we were victims of various transitions, where you have winners and losers. I must warn all politicians that, depending on their kind of behavior and hearing, they can be their own victims of a post-supervisive period, because people who, during the rule of the former regime, acquired huge capital, while some citizens lost everything, they gained everything, one crazy privatisation, the predator capitalism that was established, everything that was ours became theirs. It's hard to expect now that those who don't know what they have understand us who, or who understand millions who don't have anything. In this regard, I would like to say that when they advertised, and when they settled after Yugoslavia's collapse, when various multinational companies calmed down, etc., the rest of the capital was established that in these states created in the Balkans various tycoons, in various countries that created their empires and are mostly advertised in the media and thus become, through advertising, media scene masters in the Republic of Serbia. In such a way, they can also create political circumstances under which political life is taking place, that is, through advertising to create a political scene in Serbia, to eliminate politicians and political parties that do not correspond to their business, because most of the business done by these so-called businesses. tycoons, friends, the godfathers of the former regime is a business with the state. If a politician bothers them or a political party, they expose him to unprecedented media pressure through advertising, by not putting an ad, but in a certain way, they make the ad with the support of the media in which they advertise their products and you are daily witnesses that those who advertise in the media have an opportunity to influence editorial policy, especially in that political part concerning political parties. We who are today witnessing a negative campaign against the government, political parties and politicians who are making the scene, or the ruling majority, can certainly testify that this can happen, that it happens. If a tycoon in its den estimates that someone is not responding to it, it can quite unpunishely publish the text through advertising, press printing and electronic media release that information, and in return that party that has been damaged has to run long-term disputes that last for several years and as punishment some symbolism of 50, 60, 70,000 dinars appears and all of us who are involved in politics, which we have been subject to such a type of pressure through advertising in electronic and other media, we can give a very good witness about it. These days we are witnessing the kind of pressures of those who have acquired certain ownership stakes overnight in various companies, in various media, etc., that they are united against policies that do not suit them. If some media doesn't want to broadcast it, they simply say – you know what, we won't advertise with you anymore. The media are aware of this and must make sure that the payer has certain political requirements and therefore our political scene is not yet arranged the way it would be. In the end, I want to say that no matter what happens, no matter what your advertisers have to do to influence the upcoming campaign, we have to move forward. So, I don't know how fast, but every day we have to take one small step forward. There is that saying, or the wise thought of Dostoyevsky, which says, "If you are going to stop every dog that barks at you with a stone, you will never reach the finish line." We shouldn't give up on that trip, we shouldn't take the stone in our hand. No matter how much these advertisers throw bark at us, we have to go forward every day, at least one small step at a time. It doesn't matter the speed, it's important that we move forward, it's important that we don't go backwards like the party of the former regime did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46569	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46570	Thank you. I must immediately say that I consider this law very good. Usually when it's estimated whether the law is good or not you're reading it and you're trying to imagine various hypothetical situations, sometimes the unusual ones, and you're trying to try it that way. This law is very good and I think it will survive in practice, because it is simply subject to its detail and precision to various and hypothetical situations which there is a lot in this business, and to whom I belong in part. Of course, this law was long expected and was necessary because since 2005, when the previous Law on Advertising was passed, much has changed, starting with the Internet, Internet advertising, advertising via mobile phones, digitisation, many things that could not be found in the previous law or applied. What was in the previous law almost on the edge of the absurd, I will say one situation, for example, is that actors in Serbia could not advertise beer because of a member of the law, which was completely amazing and had one discriminatory function. All over the world, and especially with us in a region where actors are unfortunately very poor, where they work for small wages, they were prevented from earning extra money by advertising a product, doing their own work. On many occasions I spoke publicly about this absurdity, and if you have heard me, I am pleased and thank you on behalf of the profession for not having it anymore. Now I'm going to dedicate myself to the brief amendment I've submitted. For two years, I've been promoting an idea called "Minute for Culture". The idea is based on the need to advertise culture, to inform citizens of Serbia about contemporary art, contemporary creation, cultural events. Culture in Serbia, unfortunately, is in retreat. Due to light content, we have fewer and fewer cultural users. The state of Serbia is investing a lot of money through the help of the institutions of culture, through competitions of contemporary creation, and increasingly fewer people, Serbian citizens are familiar with some valuable works, valuable events, valuable cultural products that most citizens are not available. We had a number of cultural shows, cultural magazines before even on private television, where citizens could inform themselves about cultural manifestations, about cultural products. We don't have it now. We have on public service a couple of such emissions, and in some ways for culture there is a kind of media darkness. It's a shame, because you really create valuable things, things you need to get to people. My proposal is based on one important conceptual question whether culture is just for "a circle of two", or culture belongs to all citizens of Serbia? My answer is the latter. I think that all citizens of Serbia should have benefits from culture, and that culture should be available to them and this amendment that I have submitted provides a legal basis for this matter to be implemented. That culture is affirmed, that contemporary creation is produced by aphirmics, advertised and reached by end-users. We know that even the film, which was very popular in Serbia, was once, had several million viewers a year in the '90s, and then in the 2000s, it fell to below a million. Now even movies don't have more than a couple hundred thousand viewers without talking about very important, useful, good exhibitions, books, ballet shows, classical music concerts. Most people in Serbia have no idea. That's why I think this amendment of mine is very important. Perhaps people have no idea how much this can mean for the cultural community, or for all citizens of Serbia, if adopted, it may be a few million euros in cultural support. Because when the Ministry of Culture and other cultural institutions support contemporary creation products, there's never enough money to promote, there's never enough money to advertise. Simply, small publishers, small producers, galerists, cultural institutions, can't, of course, deal with and compete with big manufacturers, big brands. They can't compete with shows of popular culture, cheap content, which unfortunately dominate the media scene and the public scene. So this amendment, if adopted, could be a major turning point in accepting culture, massaging culture, in restoring the status of culture as it was in the 1970s and '80s of this century, when it was really mass. Because culture really belongs to the people. To skip the estrada, and slowly bring the end. I thank you in advance, and I hope that this proposal will have an echo, and in the day for voting MPs from the SPS Group will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46571	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Ljajic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, have submitted nine amendments to these two draft laws, on advertising and on information security. My proposal, Minister Ljajic, is for the government to resign, as I understood two days ago by the Prime Minister in resignation, Mr. Vukic, to do at the end of his term at least one good thing, and accept all our amendments to these two draft laws, Mr. Ljajic. I have recorded as two criteria among other criteria, which are also important for the assessment of these two draft laws, the criteria of order and precision in the content of legislative projects. I will now explain to you how accepting our amendments strengthens these two evaluation criteria for these two legislative projects, order and precision. Why is it important that we have maximum order and maximum precision in legislative projects? Because of the great principle of rule of law which is recorded as the most important in Article 3 of our Constitution. Here comes Minister Ljajic. Let's start with Article 11. Proposal for a law on advertising. The following is said in point 2: deception of advertising is any obfuscation which, in any way including mode of display, deceives or is likely to deceive the recipients of advertising messages that, due to such a misleading nature, can affect their economic behaviour, etc. Our opinion, Minister Ljajic, is that, of course, economic behavior is the most important in terms of the nature of the spirit and the content of this law, but this is not necessarily the only one. Now let's imagine a person A who comes up with an ad, says – with all its strength in reform. Then it turns out it was a hoax, is it Minister Ljajic, that this is just about economic behavior, or some other kind of behavior by Minister Ljajic? We think that it is unnecessary to narrow this coin down to economic behaviour, but only to leave – behavior, since there are other types of behaviours, which can indirectly affect economic behaviour and for no reason are being narrowed down here. Or, Minister Ljajic, the 21st or 22nd members concerned with special heads, special rules and restrictions. For example, within this chapter it writes – protection of minors from inappropriate advertising, Article 21 and Article 22. – advertising message intended for minors. It seems to us that it would be appropriate for these two members to replace Minister Ljajic's place, to remain the same content, only to change places for the sake of order. Because the order is respected gentlemen, I think that first of all in the law, in the first place we say what the advertising message is intended for minors, so that it remains this – the advertising message is intended for minors within the meaning of this law, is an advertising message sent directly or indirectly to minors, and afterwards, Minister Ljajic, to go to the protection of minors from inappropriate advertising in the context of a special rule on the protection of minors. So, it seems to us that what is contained in Article 22, if we follow the order in writing the law, should become a member of the 21st and the contents of Article 21 should only be transferred to the content of Article 22. Then we have I mean honored gentlemen and order, maximum order and maximum precision. Or respected gentlemen, distinguished ministers Ljajic, ministers in resignation as I understand it, Article 31, has the title – television advertising or television sales, and then already in the first position says – television or radio advertising is the type of advertising, etc. Our proposal is that, since Article 31 does not only talk about television advertising and television sales, to be nice about the content and the name, or the name, and to add in the name - television and radio advertising and television and radio sales, so that whoever reads the name of this member has an absolute overview of what the content of the read member will be about. It seems to us that these are interventions concerning the fulfillment of order and precision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46573	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46574	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have two draft laws, as far as I can see, not all colleagues who have discussed that these are two laws that have been properly done, which have had a good public debate and that will improve the parts to which they apply, and above all concerns the Law on Advertising and the Information Security Act. At this point, I'd like to say a few words about the Information Security Act. Given the random developments in the last 10-15 years of information technologies, which have brought many improvements both in society and business, they have also opened many security to say holes in this fact, especially inconceivable development and who expected 10-15 years ago that social networks such as Google, such as Facebook, will have so many users, and is measured by billions. What happened yesterday in his quite correct and well-exposed committee, Mr. Savic pointed out and set a plastic example, compared the e-mail with the postcard. So, with the open letter, which is a pretty good comparison. Mail doesn't have any protection, and on every hub anyone can look and see what you sent or what I mentioned yesterday, that's what's good enough for you to electronically book a plane ticket, a travel ticket, any and then surprise me two days before the start of the Google trip and let me know what the weather is like in Toronto, which is the temperature and wish me a happy trip. Also, it happened a few days ago that he made a mistake, whether someone had misused my personal data or if someone with the same name and last name had booked and some travel ticket to Vienna. I was informed of the weather in Vienna, which I really didn't need. Now I'm going to go back to very specifically the law itself, and it's an extremely important step in legal regulation when it comes to information security. The state suffers huge damages from high-tech crime, measuring tens of millions of euros. Also, it happens to us, and we were all witnesses, especially when there was a Serbia-Albania match that at that moment many websites, both state and sports institutions, were attacked and at that point tried to knock down all these sites. The adoption of the law is envisioned by a strategy for the development of the information society in Serbia by 2020. The law regulates measures to protect against security risks in information communications systems, legal persons' responsibilities, when managing and using them. The competent authority for the implementation of the protection, coordination and monitoring measures shall also be designated. Information security involves not only the security of data and systems within the state administration, but also businesses from all other Internet users. A plastic example of this is the abuse of payment cards. You were all witnesses a few days ago in the media mentioned a large chain of hotels of world proportions, where they established, and they have a hotel in our country, that their information system and payment cards were misused by all the users who used their services. So far, this issue has been regulated by eight laws, and for the first time information security will be resolved by one law that will also ensure the protection of human rights and personal freedoms above all. The draft law went through a wide public debate, as I said at the beginning. The law lays down information and communication systems of particular importance in the Republic, such as public administration, public authorities, systems dealing with particularly sensitive personality and system data used in activities of general importance. The attack on information and communication systems can cause major damage to national security, citizens' privacy, monetary losses, etc. The law defines competent institutions and that - the competent authority for information and technology security, for the crypt of protection, which should be specifically noted, and I particularly point out our Military Institute which is currently working for the State lottery of Serbia, while setting up national risk prevention services in information and communication systems, etc. National CERT. The national CERT will contribute to better prevention and information of attacks on information and communication systems. The law provides for the establishment of a body for the coordination of information security tasks, as well as the National Centre for the Prevention of Security Risks under these bodies. All relevant factors from all ministries will be included, through economy to the non-governmental sector. National CERT, i.e. The National Centre for the Prevention of Security Risks in Information-Communication Systems will be formed within the framework of RATEL. It's a body that has all developed countries. I will refer to this as an example of Slovenia that already has 20 years of experience, in 1995 it formed its national CERT. What I will finally mention is one conclusion from the meeting of national CERTs, Finland, Slovenia, Croatia and our national internet domain registers, where on a plastic example of colleagues from the Finnish CERT in real time, at the right time, they showed how insecure our information network is at that moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46575	Thank you. Dejan Nikolic is not here. Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46576	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, specifically the Proposal for a Law on Advertising, which is on the agenda today, is extremely important, especially if we consider what time we live in, or that we are practically surrounded by different types of advertising on each side. The existing law that regulates this area was adopted in 2005, and of course many things have changed in the last ten years, advertising opportunities have become much higher, so it is necessary to improve protection measures, because the fact that advertising opportunities have become larger has also become greater and opportunities for abuses, and we know that many opportunities for abuse are at least when advertising is concerned. When we mention abuse, we can't look back on different types of abuses when it comes to Internet advertising. There is almost no person who, either by means of the Internet or any other kind of advertising, was not deceived, was not deceived or was at least not tempted, which means that this area is really very precise and very detailed to do, which is exactly what this bill does. When it comes to abuse, of course, only one brief reference to this, of course there are always groups that are more sensitive, whether they are minors, whether they are persons who are more vulnerable because of some problem, diseases, and as such subject to different types of manipulation, different kinds of suggestion, and of course as long as they are people, and unfortunately they will always be, who are willing to make a lot of money on someone else's accident, so that the very state should make sure that their citizens are adequately protected, especially when it comes to advertising. The state should also take care, as it does with this law, to protect itself from the different kinds of grey economy when it comes to advertising. It's just that all of this law seems, the law is very precise, very clearly defined, defined exactly what is allowed, which is not allowed in the advertising process, precisely and precisely defined what is considered by advertising and what is not. Also, when it comes to internet advertising, it is very precisely defined what is meant by internet advertising, it is defined which are criteria that simply have to be respected and in this way appropriate application we will really come to a situation where there will really be fair conditions for a real fight, for the right to advertise and for all those who are involved in the advertising process. How, on the one hand, for advertisers, who will now be able to fight fairly correctly, one fair competition, also for consumers who will be practically by their country adequately apply this law against different types of deception, fraud, and, as I have already mentioned, of course, against the gray economy will be protected by the state itself, so that all objectives will be met. The same thing that I would especially praise when it comes to this law is that it implies, or is conceived, so that it enables efficiency, which is really more than important. Unlike the existing law where there was this overload, so to speak, paperwork, which reduces the efficiency that really in this segment is necessary. So, thanks to this law, it will be possible to react quickly if there is any advertising that does not comply with the law. Of course there are also criminal provisions. One of my colleagues mentioned that they are strict, I agree, and I think it's very good when it comes to this law, because a strict criminal policy can also act preventively, which is the goal. It is foreseen that the supervision of the adequate application of this law is carried out by the ministry, as well as by local self-government, as well as by agencies, which I think is very good and that it will indeed speed up the application of this law in the best possible way. When it comes to the second law that we are discussing today – the proposal for a law on information security, of course, nothing less important and significant law, especially considering that the real time in which we live is the time in which the information means real and true power, and so it is indeed necessary and protected, especially when we consider that there is no company that works without a computer, there is no company that has no Internet, over 60% of households in Serbia use a computer, using the Internet. So, just, now, practically, you can't do business unless you exist on the Internet. Thus, as science progresses, as technology progresses, of course progresses parallel to this and technological crime, and it really takes a lot of effort, a lot of effort, to get in the way of technological crime. What this law certainly does is that it is a very important step in achieving that goal. In particular, what does this law do? It has accurately and accurately identified the bodies that need to deal with data protection, meaning, which apply protection measures, and also implies and predicts their mutual coordination. Because, as we know, only one body can't really do much for itself. Their mutual coordination is indeed necessary. Of course, supervision of the application of this law is also foreseen, which is very important. Finally, to point out that both laws represent one step in harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, which is very important, especially if it is a strategic definition of this government, but also more important than that, both laws are designed to exist in the best interests possible and to protect the interests of both these countries and our citizens, and therefore should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46577	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. He's not in the O.R. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46578	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following our work today, we have two laws in front of us today from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. These are the draft advertising law and the proposal for an information security law. As far as the draft advertising law is concerned, I would just point out three important goals. Under number one, it is the protection of our consumers; number two – the prevention of illegal competition, unfair competition and number three, these are higher inspection capacity. I will focus my exposure today on the second draft law, and that is the proposal for an information security law. Why? Just because this is one new bill. So far, we have not had such a regulation for a very important area, very important for all our citizens, and therefore this law is in the best interests of all our citizens, but not only of them, but of the states and the public sector. This is a system law, this is a roof law, which will in one system way eliminate many threats, many abuses and contribute to greater protection, greater security and greater security. The law itself consists of 34 members, beginning with the first one, which regulates the subject of the law itself, to those last members, in which inspection is spoken, of the criminal provisions, as well as the transitional provisions of this law. However, I will not talk about these details, we will soon have a debate on amendments and, of course, a good opportunity to further improve this good law, to be even more quality. The priority, as far as the area of information security itself is concerned, is the legal framework, is the institutional framework that we are talking about today. But I have to point out that, of course, in the world and in our country, and as this development of information technologies is being observed, that's what the data is saying. Today, in all companies, 100% of our companies have computer applications, a 99% internet connection, and over 99%. As far as our households are concerned, it's a slightly different picture, that computers are present in over 64% of households, while Internet connection is somewhere over 63%. But, let's just say, another piece of information that somewhere over a million and 220 thousand people in the last year have been defined as buying certain goods or services online. On the other hand, it is a great progress and a great benefit to our society and citizens, because, of course, costs are being reduced, certain processes are being automated somewhere, we are speeding up the flow of information, not only in our republic, but also with other countries. But all of this has one other side, which we want to remove with this law – certain security threats. Of course, major threats to crime, high - tech crime, and the particular form of this crime are precisely counterfeiting and abuse of payment cards. We have a threat to our citizens and property, as well as to their personal data. A very important area is protection and prevention. Today, before adopting this law, it's not systematic somewhere, it's just individual, it's just individuals who in one, I'd say, unorganized way, manage to fight, and you've pointed out, Mr. Minister, and a good example of the banking sector and telecommunications and those companies, but, of course, it should spread to all other areas. What is my opinion, which I would like to appeal to, distinguished ministers, in addition to this protection and security, is a very important goal of this law – raising the awareness of our citizens. My opinion, in order to raise the awareness of our citizens, is not an easy way to go at all, is good, above all, education, and from the earliest age. We need inter-sectoral co-operation here, but, I would say, the co-operation of several ministries, primarily the Ministry of Education. Another way to raise awareness of citizens and change, of course, is for now still the criminal provisions that we have in this bill. What makes this law, which is good, is the formation of appropriate bodies, and that's the coordination body. Because this problem is not only about our country, the Republic of Serbia, it is about cross-border co-operation, about co-operation with many other countries, and that is why it is extremely important for this body. For the first time, we will have a national centre, which will also carry out appropriate analyses and deal with this problem, but that centre will also exist at the state level. The impact of this bill is on all our citizens, on the state, on all public institutions and what is the well-being of this law is the greater trust of our citizens in this area. Just to point out that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has organised a public debate over this law, that a number of suggestions and comments have arrived and that we have all these suggestions and comments, which I would not speak of individually in the proposal for the interpretation of this law. At the very end, of course, in Vote Day, together with SNS MPs, I will also be very pleased to vote in favour of both of the draft laws we are discussing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46579	I thank my colleague Milosevic. Next pay phone, Natasa Vukkovic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Ivana Stojljković has a word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46580	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in today's information and consumer time, it is definitely said that today's two draft laws that are before us are very important. The Security of Information Act and the Advertising Act. The previous colleague talked a lot more about the security of information law, and then I'll look back at the advertising law. The new draft advertising law should change all the shortcomings that the current law had and what is still very important, is to comply with EU directives. The proposal for this law regulates the representation and promotion of economic operators more precisely, with the aim of strengthening its position on a competitive market, but of course, with the preservation of all fair competitions. Therefore, in order to make one difference between competition, it is necessary to ensure advertising and fair competition and to allow objective emphasis on characteristics. Advertising is just coming to consumers and what is the goal is that they must not be deceived, because they must have the option of choosing goods or services and thus make a good choice. So there must be objective and transparent criteria, which is exactly what this bill is going to do, that is, to enable this law to be adopted. It will also protect advertisers, i.e. valuers and consumers, and prevent non-regular and non-secure advertising. So, first of all, I would like to say what will be banned from this bill, or this law, therefore - advertising of unregistered activities is prohibited, it is very important, because in this way it will combat and reduce the grey economy and bring the market into legal flows. Then, misleading advertising and covert advertising are prohibited. I'm going to say a little bit more about how dangerous it is, and the covert thing is, we've had cases, especially through newspaper articles, when a company or company is advertised, and of course, that's how the principle of journalistic impartiality collapses, and especially if money compensation is taken for it. This law insists on the brand of advertising visibility, therefore, that we know exactly what an ad is and that they are completely excluded and unacceptable forms of advertising. Of course, comparative advertising is supported, but of course with the acceptance of all of these previously mentioned conditions. In particular, the advertising that points to a telephone call has been regulated, of course, with a clear indication of the tariff of that call and the use of state signs and symbols, such as coat of arms, anthem, has been regulated in ads. I would specifically refer to the third part of this bill, as regards children, to the protection of children and minors from advertising and the way advertising can adversely affect them. Why does it matter? TV is remarkable, especially in children I will look back on the influence of television, because it is an extremely mass media that is simply becoming a member of our family somewhere, and children in their spare time, unfortunately, spend most of their time in front of television. What's going on is that instead of an informative and educational role, television just got one marketing role, it got an ideological role, so unfortunately, sometimes destructive. Very often we have cases of girls crying in toy stores, because the doll they bought doesn't walk the way they do on commercials, and it's just these misleading commercials, or not talking, not blinking, and we have a boy who cries when parents take a room refresher, so he thinks that, like in commercials right now, all the kids in the neighborhood are gonna come to their bathroom. These are harmless situations, and of course there are those dangerous ones, I wouldn't really be giving them directions right now, but that's why I'm looking forward to it, if this bill or when we pass this law, it's really strictly applicable, especially in this part of the juveniles and children. Therefore, minors will be protected by specific restrictions on the content of these ads and advertising and advertising means. In particular, advertising of unacceptable forms of behavior, alcohol, drugs and aids, such as, unfortunately, children now have very popular weight loss products, then games of happiness and children continue to remain, milk, other food and drink, which are not yet acceptable. Advertising is forbidden during the programme for children, meaning also near kindergartens, schools and institutions for children, of course, unless it has a positive effect on children. What's very important is that members from 27th to 46th are just advertising in the media, the press, the Internet, and in the open space, and it's very important to note. It's a pleasure that now that part of advertising is defined, and it's Internet and open surfaces. I'm just going to say a little bit about advertising in electronic media, so there's already a law, but through this law there are clear provisions, and circled, simply defined the whole story about advertising in the media. In particular, the provisions relating to product placement are precisely defined, the overall term for advertising and how it can be distributed during the day. I would refer briefly to advertising on open surfaces, where there are advertising screens, posters, displays, which have existed so far, and have not been clearly defined. So on the open surface, it's precisely defined who has jurisdiction now, above all local self-government, and who has to control what's on those advertising boards and panorama. As far as internet advertising is concerned, all the provisions of this law will also apply to internet advertising, except, of course, Article 19 concerning the advertising declaration, and for that reason, it cannot apply. It is very commendable that this law will bring a halt to the advertising of alcoholic and stimulant beverages, as well as of electronic cigarettes, especially because in advertising ads, consumers display themselves as very important and confident persons, especially in a young population that we cannot simply forbid to see these ads, have a very unfavourable impact. So, first of all, I would like to point out again, with the desire to protect our young and above all, our children, to grow into healthy people and protect them from a large number of dangerous ads, and sometimes dangerous advertisers, with the desire to grow into a healthy society, SNS and myself, we will personally be happy to support these two laws, with one strict application of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46581	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46582	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, we today have a law on the agenda to regulate and secure a single labour market when it comes to the area of promotion. The promotion of economic operators aims to improve their economic position on the market. This game should be extremely fair, it should highlight the objective differences between competitors, but that is why certain rules must be respected. We are talking about the creative industry today, and advertising is an important economic activity, which is being resorted to by a huge number of economic operators, because the advertising process has been seen by many as an inescapable part of their business. Of course, we need to determine the right measure for everything. We need to influence the users of our services in this way, regardless of the type of product, but we always have to be guided by legitimate interests of stakeholders. We are witnessing the fact that change is taking place in this area as well. The needs are different and this requires a constant change and adaptation to the requirements of time. In my deep conviction, the hardest job in the field of marketing is considered to be selling advertising messages, advertising seconds, through certain software content, because sometimes economic operators seem to pay a price that is not real, but the fact is that by advertising the advertising message, there is a significant economic benefit for the economic operator, which advertises a product or service. I can basically say, since I've worked in the media for 10 years, and of that five years right in the commercial departments, that that man who can sell commercial seconds on television can sell anything on the market. I must point out that respect for objective information, preservation of creativity, respect for the moral and ethical principles of a particular society is essential. Therefore, general compliance with the general rules of jurisdiction is a significant principle of this matter. He is a very important member of the 12th, who does not allow covert, or advertising that can lead the public astray, with regard to his real nature, which violates media impartiality and independence. Article 14 deals with comparative advertising because the attractiveness of the potential of the European media space is increasing. There is an increase in commercial potential, on the other hand there is a possible space for possible abuses. Therefore, restrictive provisions are also provided so that such behaviour is not misleading for end-users, competition and consumer protection. In the part of the law relating to specific rules and restrictions, since advertisements do not choose their recipients of information, so that advertising can also affect those who do not have sufficient degrees of maturity, which can be prone to negative influences. The protection of minors is therefore of particular importance. The requirements that must be respected shall be followed by the system logic of the law, the integrity of the content, the inadequacy and the suitability of the message, which means that it must not be directly stimulated by purchase, should not be too long in the large frame or otherwise inappropriately highlighted. Television advertising and TV sales, as special advertising methods in electronic media, are subject to the rules governing how they are broadcast. In the broadcast block with interruption of software content, broadcasting without interruption of emissions or special TV sales. These provisions prescribe the duration of TV advertising and TV sales, with a prescription that does not go into the total time of 20%, or 10% of the time within one full hour of broadcasting. It is significant to mention the powers of the regulatory body for electronic media, to bring closer regulation and development of certain issues related to advertising in electronic media, given the powers given to it by the law already on electronic media. I would also like to touch sponsorship as a special form of advertising that must not lead to the delusion of the recipient of the advertising message regarding the identity of the sponsor, the sponsored person or the activity, the activities of the sponsor, the properties of their products, their influence and potential health hazards. Goals achieved by passing this law. Well, the new law should enable appropriate inspection tools, i.e. to provide a more regulated market and clear game rules for all participants in it. One of the objectives of the legislative changes is to protect the well-being of all consumers, especially sensitive categories such as minors, pregnant women or drivers. The point of the new legislative changes is that the new law should be an integral part of a comprehensive legal framework that will best regulate the legitimate emphasis on the benefits of certain products and consumer information. It is unequivocal that advertising affects consumers, their elections and economic decisions regarding the purchase of certain goods. It is intended to ensure legal certainty for advertisers, and peace for advertisers. Advertising as a systemic issue is of great importance to the awareness of citizens and the economic interest of the person in the advertising chain because of the legal certainty and clarity of the economic environment and must therefore be normally covered in the form of laws. This law stimulates the emergence of new market participants and encourages the work of advertisers and marketing agencies under fair and fair conditions. As far as sound competition is concerned in advertising, it is precisely the goal of developing it. So, on the question, did the interested parties have a chance to make their views known? It should be said that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications organised a public debate that lasted from 3 January to 3 February 2015. Even on the Ministry's site for 30 days, there was a proposal for this law to include the general public and to contribute as much as possible to their suggestions as possible to the better legal proposal. In the Serbian Chamber of Commerce on 28 January 2015, there was also a roundtable on which everyone interested could make their remarks to the law. It has been found that the bill is good, that it is acceptable for all participants, in full compliance with modern trends and legal solutions. These are all the reasons why I am quoted as saying that I will support this legislative proposal in the voting day along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46583	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46584	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have two extremely important laws in the field of communication and communication. One is the Advertising Act, and the other is the Information Security Act. What I have to mention first is that one and the other laws represent a step forward. The previous advertising law was passed 10 years ago. This is a new law and both laws are in line with the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. I must stress that the Law on Advertising and the product of alignment with the 2006 directives, as well as some other recommendations that are relevant to our legislative and legal framework. What's unusually important is that both of these laws achieve several goals. I'll set three main goals. The first goal is to provide legal certainty for all participants, both in advertising procedures and in information security procedures. Legal certainty is also important, both for citizens and for economic operators, and ultimately for the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Also, what is one of the objectives that these laws achieve is a fair competition between economic operators, because we must not forget that both laws basically have economic development, that is, the economy and the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Also, another very important goal, it is to control the implementation and control of this law, because we are aware that without adequate control and control of law enforcement, there is no adequate implementation of it, or such laws that were passed in any earlier period, only a dead letter on paper remains, and that is certainly not in the citizens' interest, nor in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to point out and what I especially want to apostrophe, it's the advertising law. Some newspapers are introduced, mostly by the newspaper, which refers to the advertising of alcoholic beverages, which is the division of alcoholic beverages to a percentage of alcohol up to 20% when advertising is possible between 18 hours and six hours in the morning and alcoholic beverages that have a percentage of alcohol above 20% when their advertising is possible between 23 hours in the evening and six hours in the morning. What's new is also about advertising alcoholic beverages, it's that they can be advertised in printed media. Of course, there is a ban that they cannot be advertised in printed media intended for children and minors. I would also like to highlight a very important aspect, a very important segment of the Law on Advertising, which is a ban on misleading messages, i.e. bringing consumers, those who need to consume services or goods into one misleading, or into one false position. I would also like to highlight the special section 3 concerning the protection of minors. The protection of minors is important in terms of the most vulnerable population of our citizens, which is also the fact that the media was electronic, whether radio, or television, and how important they are in the ageing and raising of minors, and this aspect is a very important ban on advertising when it comes to minors, and especially those prohibitions relating to exposure to very dangerous and risky situations when it comes to underage children, such as: climbing to secure facilities or entering unknown rooms or conversations, retaining with unknown persons or playing and surrounding flammable matter without parental supervision and control. I would also like to stress that in this section relating to the protection of minors, protection and protection from every type of violence, and it is defined through law as protection of integrity. So any advertising that can encourage violence is forbidden, or advertising is prohibited when it comes to animated characters or dolls. Also, in order to preserve the family, the family model of education, in this section relating to the protection of the integrity of minors, all messages that in any way create mistrust between minors, between parents and a close minor are prohibited. This is also unusually important for children’s healthy development. I would also like to point out that in this section concerning minors, care was also given to the health and development of minors, thus prohibiting advertising of food, other products, as well as accessories for infants up to six months of age. I take this as an effort and as the opinion of modern medicine that breast milk in the diet of children is irreplaceable. Also, the law prohibits advertising in places where children visit most often, i.e. children and minors spend much of their time, which are educational and preschool institutions. There is no advertising, except for those advertising related to curricula and programmes, as well as advertising related to sports activities. Also, outdoor advertising is forbidden to highlight alcoholic beverages if in an air line of 100 metres, if there is a school, preschool or health care institution, although advertising is open, left to local self-government, that part of advertising offices. What I'd like to mention, which is, when it comes to this part of the protection of minors, I just wanted to point out one fact. It's about protecting minors. Our family law in article 64 recognizes children up to 14 years of age and minors aged 14 to 18, which divides into younger minors from 14 to 16 years of age and older minors from 16 to 18 years of age. Our Criminal Law also makes a difference in the category between children and minors, so the Criminal Law says that children are up to 14 years of age and minors from 14 to 18 years of age. Also, based on the recommendations that UNICEF made, based on research, which is recommendations related to the communication of children with the media, UNICEF distinguishes three adult ages and that - early birth to six years alive, mean age from 7 to 11 years of life and early adolescence period from 12 to 14 years. I find it unusually important to have special protection for minors in this bill, but there may be some possibility that children might be introduced into this part. In any case, both laws are reform laws, both laws are a step forward, both laws create legal certainty for citizens. In any case, the Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46585	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46586	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, two very important draft laws are here today, a proposal for advertising law and a proposal for a law on information security. I will focus today in my presentation on the proposal of the Information Security Act. The proposal for an information security law is a set of measures that allow the information and communication system to protect the confidentiality, integrity, availability and integrity of the data handled through that system. This proposal represents a good framework for regulating the security of information and communication systems in the Republic of Serbia, which regulates risk protection measures, as well as legal persons' responsibility in the management and use of information and communication systems. The draft law lays down the competent authority for the implementation of the protection measures, the coordination between the protection factors and the monitoring of the prescribed safeguard measures. The adoption of the Information Security Act is a step towards harmonising the legal framework of the Republic of Serbia with the European Union in the field of information society. The bill provides that the Ministry of Information Security Affairs is responsible for the security of information and communication systems, which will prepare sub-legislative acts under this law, carry out international bilateral and multilateral co-operation in the field of security of information and communication systems and monitor the application of this law, all in order to increase security. The largest number of incidents in information and communication systems has an international character, and attacks can be carried out from territory of different countries. As a result, good communication between countries is important in order to stop or reduce incidents in a timely manner. The bill defines that the competent authority for information security is obliged to provide early warnings of fast-growing risks and incidents, which may exceed national capacities and which may have an impact on more than one country. In order to achieve co-operation and coordinated performance, to improve information security, this bill provides for the government to educate the body for the coordination of information security operations as a co-ordination body of the government. The proposal is for the body to be represented by the representatives of the Ministry of Information Society, the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the representatives of the Security Service, the Office of the National Security and Security Council, the Secretary-General of the Government, the Office for Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities and the National CERT. The bill contains a special section on crypto-security and protection against compromised electronic radiation. The bill defines inspection supervision of the work of the information and communication systems through the information security inspector, which will continue to file criminal reports. On the way to the preservation of ICT security, basic human rights, personal data and privacy are protected. By adopting this law, Serbia shows that it is also responsible for this topic and that, in the day of voting, as well as all MPs of the SNS, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46587	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46588	Dear Chairman, today we are discussing and considering the proposals for advertising laws in one area that is very important, given that the great impact of electronic media is being felt by all of us, and in this pre-election period there will be even more. I must say, in such an important area, it may be illusory to expect that by passing one law, we will prevent all the malfeasance, machination and abuses that exist in that area. But since it is also defined in the reasoning of this law that advertising is a form of promotion of business entities in order to improve their economic position on the market, this senseless pursuit of profit by large companies who want to show themselves or provide the easiest profit, often leads to a situation where advertising is presented through an area of advertising and some things that absolutely do not stand as characteristics of these products offered on the market and that skilled manipulators who deal with this area are successfully conducted or placed through electronic media, and this all reflects as several hundred or several thousand examples that we can see in electronic media every day, which is a kind of abuse. The intention of this law is precisely to prevent these machinations, abuses and to protect consumers from any unblessed or unfounded advertising, that consumers do not have to be brought into a situation to listen that using a certain type of toilet paper, their life will be arranged, etc., that we do not banalise and that I do not specify all examples that exist and that can be seen every day in every medium when you turn on the apparatus to look at all that is offered on the market. However, the manufacturer's struggle to court consumers, to place their product in any way, must not be left to itself, any kind of behaviour in the area should not be allowed. As I said before, it is illusory to expect that only by passing one law will we be able to prevent all problems or to warn all the problems that have arisen in this area. I must point out that the big competition has been created by promoting these liberal, economic, capitalist principles since 2000, which has just accelerated and has practically multiplied the problems in this field, and these are all the reasons why we need to approach the problem seriously in this area and the adoption of such a law is perhaps the first step towards it. Since there were indeed many examples of abuse in this area in the previous period, I would still not like to cite them today. I welcome, as an ordinary citizen of Serbia and as an MP for the Socialist Movement within the SNS parliamentary club, the adoption of such a law, but I stress that only passing such a law will not be enough to warn or prevent any machinations, problems that arise in this area. In view of the fact that supervision of the implementation of this law and the regulation of this area is practically deployed to both the ministry and local self-government, as well as to public agencies, we must bear in mind and the fact that they will all bear part of the responsibility for regulating the areas of social life. However, I must point out one thing that may not be sufficiently reflected in this bill, which is the fact that a large number of monopolies or public enterprises, which are practically not in a situation that have to be advertised, still advertise and spend a lot of money on promoting their services, as if there are some who are in a position to offer consumers an alternative or other option. So it's one of my personal appeals, given that in a large number of cases, especially at the local level and in the Pyrot from which I come, in the last ten years, it was absolutely a method for controlling the work of electronic media or for some kind of practical impact on electronic media to be more obedient to local authorities. I appeal from this place to both the ministry and all the competent authorities to monitor the implementation of this law to pay as much attention to this area as possible, because practically in this way a large amount of funds, which can be used in a completely different way, in another way to solve the citizens' life problems, are spent in such a way that those who are currently practically able to manage and provide support for electronic media to themselves and their survival in power. Since we are located, as I have already said, and as we all know during the pre-election period, I appeal to all control authorities and supervisory authorities to deal more with the problem in this case. Also, I would like to point out that in the previous period there have been countless abuses related to advertising and alcoholic beverages, especially those areas that, given the fact that, let's say, a man who is only sick with one desire to heal, in a situation that will accept anything that serves him as a solution to his problem, there have been major problems or major abuses in that area, although advertising of these health products or products in the field of health has been prohibited, it has happened and is happening. The fact is that we have to pay attention to this, since again there is the influence of large, even multinational companies that want to provide themselves with large profits. Given the fact that large funds are actually being spent in the area of health, this is an additional reason for the government and the ministry, whoever is in power in the coming period, to address the problem as well. So I wouldn't want to repeat myself and repeat what we've heard so far. I highlighted several problems, given that it could not be heard during the previous period, and I think that as a well-intentioned appeal it should be understood and incorporated, not only through this legislative project or proposal but also through the implementation of this law and the adoption of sublegal acts, as well as the work of all the authorities that control the application of this law. Of course, as a member of the Socialist Movement, I will vote for the adoption of this law and I think that we will thus be able to improve the chaos that we have encountered since we came to power, and what we have left of the previous regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46589	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I support the laws on the agenda today. Firstly, when it comes to the Law on Advertising, I believe that the intention that has been highlighted by the legislator has succeeded, which is to provide transparent and objective criteria in this area. Therefore, the criteria that will provide one correct, fair competition, and when it comes to the engagement of economic operators, on the other hand, in the best possible way to respect, protect consumers' interests. I also consider it a commendable fact that this is a good effort in further harmonisation of our regulation with a European, important master on our way, when it comes to European integration, but also no less important that we address some of the important challenges from the practices seen in the previous law, or law still in force. It is always very important to respect the specific, realistic, vital needs and address the challenges of this species. As far as the Information Security Act is concerned, I will begin any exposure on the subject in words – congratulations and compliments. So I think it's an extremely good fact that we have a chance to discuss this law. This law was essential for very clear, objective reasons needed by this state. We have dealt with this problem in individual laws, sub-topics, and in this way we round up the story adequately, well and quality. In this way, we are laying the groundwork for one common framework to be established in the best possible way, when it comes to the information and communication technology sector, security, in this sense. So, all that we talked about this morning, but also at the Committee's session, I would like to underline once more in the shortest possible, since it was done in detail and very well by my colleague Pesic. As for harmonising and harmonising our liquids with Europeans, this way has been done in the best possible way. As far as interstate co-operation is concerned, when it comes to information security, this way has been done more than quality. For my part, I point out that this proposal identifies a very important aspect, which is how information security is encouraged. By obtaining an aspect of cryptological protection a worthy place in this bill. That's more than I say hello. This is really fundamentally important, but also because I believe that by introducing this proposal, and I am confident in a day or two, when we come to the vote on this law that will come into force, we have opened an important chapter in the further regulation of this area. I'd give myself space to give a few guidelines or recommendations on my part in another minute or two, which we could all deal with on this subject further. Recommendation number one, with full respect for the importance of cryptological protection, I think it would be good to think about introducing another additional component, which would refer to appropriate user authentication through mechanisms based on biometric data. So on the one hand, we protect the contents, we make sure that they are such, that they are only available to those who are intended, to anyone who has no right, who is not intended to be their consummation. On the other hand, authentication provides integrity in terms of who exactly communicates, what rights and what equipment it uses. These are aspects that technically, but practically make up an inseparable continent. As for the proposed measures to regulate the areas of crypto-protection in our country, according to the draft law in Article 21, the ministry of defence affairs will deal with them. I completely welcome you. That makes perfect sense. That's where the experts in this area are. That's how it's been so far. It's so natural and that's how it's gonna be in the future. In addition, it is foreseen that it will deal with the verification of concrete individual solutions, which will deal with the distribution of relevant systems, solutions, deal with specific regulations at a lower level, to organise scientific and research work. Here, I think it's a good place to open a parentheses. I think that as a country that has something to rise to from its history, and on this topic, there is a reason why in some previous periods, thanks to our experts' insights, minds and abilities, we developed a world-renowned cryptological protection school first and foremost. In a world of recognizable and esteemed, esteemed which is very important because in a domain of such sensitive affairs, therefore in a domain of security trust is the key to everything. We have shown ourselves, as someone who is capable not only of forming good, quality solutions, but someone who is, in that sense, a reliable partner and we are recognized by a literally complete planet. We, based on this tradition today, have something to develop further, we have something to do in the future. Research in this sense, so I consider it synchronised by the Ministry of Defense, can cover our scientific institutions in a very broad spectrum, our scientific institutes, scientific research centres, but also our economy. Good, quality solutions of this kind have their place on the world market, and that's another aspect I would also point to, this is a potentially good area for good results, as well as information-communication technology, as an area that the soul has given because the ratio of investment to one, and potential benefits on the other hand are far better and more favourable than when it comes to some, let me say, classical technologies. So, something worth working on. Furthermore, I believe that this bill is an excellent base for anything that we could further upgrade on the subject, that we might be more detailed about the possible relationship between those who are old on the state level, but also researching development, once again, the economy that could be dealt with tomorrow, more concretely and in the market itself. Here in this area of information security, perhaps better than anywhere else, that national wisdom is confirmed “who safeguards himself and God protects him. ” So in the modern world when we're not in a position to control the path of data, the servers where it's going to be, simply put, where these data will be kept and who will be able to access them, the only real way, the only way that guarantees that we'll really keep them is to control for ourselves everything that belongs in the domain of protection. And so once again, I underline the importance of developing these solutions ourselves, how algorithms, how the very devices that serve them, and what may be most important, the keys that will be used in this cryptographic protection. Our generators, our keys, something that we hold fully from the beginning to the very end of that process, will be truly guaranteed absolute security and once again, something that we can even offer to others. We've shown behind us for decades that we can do it more than well. All of these, once again, are extraordinary suggestions, aspects and excellent potentials for anything that we will do together, God of health, to further speed up modernization and catching steps, and even reaching the world in everything we can and can really do in a lot of things. That's why I'm joining the grades that my colleagues gave today. The Serbian Progressive Party will also be pleased to support everything proposed by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46591	Thank you. I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to take advantage of their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Thank you, Minister, for your cooperation, and I'll see you at the amendment hearing. We move on to the following group of points, i.e.: Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), paragraphs 5 and 6. Law on electronic media and Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). Law on copyright and related rights. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Articles 11(4), (5) and (6). Law on electronic media, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No 83/14 and Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). Law on copyright and related rights "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No 104/09/99, 99/11 and 119/12. The proposing representative is not in the O.R. at the moment, but has the right to report later. There are no authorised committees in this case other than the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46592	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will quote, it is very popular today in Serbia, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, as to why he will resign as Prime Minister and ask for early parliamentary elections to be called. Mr. Prime Minister stressed, among other things, that he needs a full mandate to support the people in order for Serbia to be ready to join the EU as a partner for making difficult decisions and, among other things, to respect the civil sector and NGOs and media that write freely and make Serbia more prominent in the world. After a report on the EU's progress, the latest report, which made it very clear that progress in the past year, i.e. progress in the area of freedom of the media, is zero, therefore, that no progress has been made, one of the recommendations that has been defined is also strengthening independent bodies, especially REM. We today have a proposal submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs here, another example of the violation of the rule of law and what is most frightening and irresponsible for all of us is that one procedure of authentic interpretation is misused and used instead of the procedure of amending and supplementing the law. This proposal which has been sent to us abuses the procedure of authentic interpretation. Interpreting as the word itself means interpreting existing provisions of the law, not introducing new provisions of the law. What the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed to us today is the introduction of a new provision into the law, so that the parliamentary majority can actually choose one candidate, it is Mr Goran Pekovic and all the proposals addressed to the Committee on Culture and Information and today go exclusively to the National Assembly. What is most frightening in this is a quite regular vote, a decision for which there is documentation in the National Assembly, a tone record and a stenogram note in which the agreement establishes a way of voting between NGOs, it is obvious that the SNS does not want to accept the proposal of the largest number of civil organisations, and if I may also dare to say the most prominent organisations in Serbia who have fought very bravely and successfully for human rights and civil rights and freedoms in the Republic of Serbia for years. What is also inadmissible in my opinion is that the MP majority of the SNS decided at one point to consider the objections of only one number of participants in the process without completely ignoring the objections that are coming today to the address of all MPs, those who, with full rights and arguments, defend the way they voted and defend the candidates who proposed for this very important independent agency. Also, if someone has wishes, and I think it would be good if we were to be responsible, to discuss this subject on the basis of facts, and I repeat, the facts are available in the documentation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the videos that remain in the archives and may be the subject of any subsequent dispute. The election process for this place in REM began on 13 October 2015. The decision was then taken to initiate the election procedure and the text of a public invitation contained details of the Law on Electronic Media and conditions for selecting candidates was voted upon. On November 10th, with nine votes in favour and only one against, including SNS MPs who, according to my free estimate at that time, have not yet received a directive to be voted on, unanimously supported that Mr Pekovic's candidacy is not in line with Article 10. The law on electronic media. On November 25th of that year, something changed, and those SNS MPs who, in my opinion, were very cautiously considering this point at the previous session, were probably forced to change their decision this time, and they voted quite the opposite of what they had done or, I could dare say, contrary to their conscience and the opposite of the law. On December 10th 2015, in accordance with the law and procedure that the law requires a meeting of NGOs to be sure and to prevent such abuses that at that time no one could imagine that the parliamentary majority would abuse both the law and the Assembly, and whoever wants to be convinced I am calling on all MPs, I believe that not everyone could read it, and it is available, I call on the public and I call on the citizens of Serbia to look at how this procedure has progressed, and it is clear that no single moment has taken place. The night after that came phone calls and pressures and questions – how is it possible that Mr. Goran Pekovic did not go to the first two places the law requires, so he did not go to the list of two candidates? The next morning at the meeting of the Committee, which was scheduled with a completely different topic, SNS MPs are seeking an urgent addition to the agenda to discuss the objections to the part of the association that sent objections that night and raised certain doubts about the regularity of the vote to which they personally attended and in which no single move stopped the vote and said – no, this is wrong and we ask that it be repeated. Everyone has accepted the proposal to vote publicly. They all agreed to vote for two candidates, which is totally in line with the law and they all signed the minutes, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. After they've signed the record, they're sending complaints the next day, because something's changed during the night. Today, since it is obvious that I am, in some way, fascinated that this candidate is so important that the Assembly and the dignity of the National Assembly and this institution will compromise the law procedure so as not to impose a voting procedure and end a procedure that, as I said, has been held in completely regular and legal circumstances, which I repeat is more than enough evidence. Today we need to discuss the proposal for authentic interpretation. If it weren't for an extraordinary session, and we weren't allowed to do so in an extraordinary session, I thought this proposal should be withdrawn so that we wouldn't all embarrass this assembly together. I don't think the history of the Parliament has yet been applied for authentic interpretation by actually amending and supplementing the law. Even if you adopt this proposal, and I, MPs and colleagues, ask you not to, I don't know on the basis of which power, if it isn't violence, you will retroactively apply a provision that is not legal and contrary to the law of the process that is already under way. If anyone had any doubt that the law wasn't good enough, about the fact that this assembly had passed the same law I won't even speak. So, we are now interpreting the law that we have adopted ourselves, on which we have the right to submit amendments, many of them are not even adopted, if they were adopted, maybe some of the provisions would be clearer. I ask you to save the face of all of us and not vote for this proposal. He's slow at every possible point. Nowhere in the law states that it is possible, in the Law on the National Assembly, to adopt new provisions by authentic interpretation of the law. It will be a precedent and I will return to the beginning of my presentation. If this government really cares about going to the EU, this is one of the most important examples on which it should prove it, because if it does this not only violates the independence of the regulatory body and, at the same time, raises doubts about the independence of the body, it violates relations with the majority of civil society and violates the fundamental rule of law in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46593	Thank you. Please list. Give me a list of the applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46594	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, on 16 December 2015, with my colleague Sanja Nikolic, I have submitted a proposal at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 11th century 4, 5th and 6. The Law on Electronic Media, which is in accordance with Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 40. Law on the National Assembly and Article 194. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to remind all MPs that a set of media laws was passed in August 2014. So, two years ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that they are precisely a shift in compliance with European standards and our obligations that have been in line with the opening of Chapter 10 and the Scannings that have been carried out for chapter 10 when it comes to information society and the media, that these laws have been the subject of a broad public debate that lasted more than two years and have supported that the European Commission has given its positive opinion, as well as all relevant international organisations and institutions of association in the country and abroad. The reason for the submission of this proposal for authentic interpretation of the Law on Electronic Media is, in fact, Article 11 of this Law precisely because of the ambiguities that have occurred in practice, and in relation to the application of these provisions. In particular, there has been an expression in the process of establishing the final proposal of two candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media by organisations, i.e. associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression, protection of children, and which make up a single authorised representative, in accordance with Article 9. The law on electronic media. Namely, what actually happened? Due to the ambiguities and concerns in the above provisions of the Electronic Media Act, a meeting was held on 10 December 2015 in the premises of the National Assembly in the Street of King Milan, where representatives of those organisations discussed and voted on candidates for REM members. No agreement has been reached on the establishment of a proposal for two candidates. Yes, it is true, the vote was held but in the following way – individual NGOs and citizens' associations voted in favour of two candidates, while the other group, individual NGOs and associations voted in favour of one candidate as well as candidates for members of this very important independent regulatory body, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, but the associations themselves were also brought into some kind of unequal position. I remind you, Article 11. The law on electronic media is prescribed that the organisation's meeting must, by agreement, establish the final proposal of two candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, and if the agreement cannot be reached by agreement of all the organisations referred to in Article 11(1) of this Act, the final proposal for candidates shall be determined by a vote. The candidate, I remind you, is the one who got the highest number of votes. The law also predicted that if organisations cannot reach agreement by consensus, the final proposal to the joint candidate is determined by the vote by the president of each organisation voting for one candidate, and on the basis of such a vote, a final proposal of two candidates is established. I would remind my fellow MPs that the procedure is the culture of every democratic procedure and that we must stick to no matter who or how we choose, whether Members of Parliament are involved in this election, whether associations of citizens or citizens are involved in this choice. In the spirit of a democratic process based on the principles of civil democracy, headed by a prohibition of discrimination, on which all are equal before the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, but I remind you also on the basis of an electoral right that is equal and guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that we stick to the procedure right now and at all times. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly is about its electoral authority in the election of members when several candidates are scheduled to decide also that each MP has the right to vote for one candidate, and that the candidate is the one who has received the highest number of votes. At the end of my presentation today, I would like to say this, by proposing an authentic interpretation of those provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, Article 11 provides both legal certainty and equality as well as legal application of the rules. I therefore call on all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support in the voting day the proposal given to us by the Committee on Constitutional and Legislative Issues, in order to remove any misunderstandings and misunderstandings that have been removed in the selection of REM members and to protect the democratic procedure for a very important body such as the electronic media regulatory body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46595	Thank you. Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Marijane Risticevic, will you, by article 96, only have a few? It's all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46596	Thank you. A previous colleague explained everything. As for members of the party of the former regime, their appeal would have been more serious that more MPs from their parliamentary group were present, and how seriously this shows the number of MPs present in the hall the moment when the lady or missus was present, explained her proposal and when she appealed to us not to lose face, etc. If someone thinks someone's gonna lose face because they don't want to vote the way they want them to, they need to know that everyone's the boss of their own voice and everyone has the right to plead the way he wants them to. If someone is appealing to our conscience, if anyone wants to convince us, he should first convince himself that he is serious to this extent, or to convince his fellow Members to at least listen to him during the debate, or at the time of such a proposal. If they show themselves that kind of seriousness, given that democracy is a system in which common solutions should be sought, look for common solutions, or what we think most citizens want to accept. If you think you can convince most of the citizens through the MPs they represent, you must convince your fellow MPs at least if they have their cheeks, which slows us down at least so much that they have the cheek to listen to the proposals that a member of their parliamentary group stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46597	Aida Corovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46598	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that today I am quite bitterly speaking on this subject, and I will tell you why. You all know that I'm not a politician, is what I'm doing right now as a political function. I've been a representative of civil society for 25 years, and I'm sorry, maybe I'll repeat myself or be a little boring or say some things you already know, but in my 20-year work, I was exposed to once very brutal abuses in the media. They threatened me with death, I put my family in serious danger, I put my brother's children in danger, I made my parents worry more than necessary, I put my friends in danger, I had to leave my organization for 17 years because I did some things that I thought were honorable and no matter how high the price was, I never hesitated and I didn't hesitate today. I simply think that each of us should look ourselves in the eye somewhere one day and say yes, I stand for something and I don't care about pay or function, etc. I've learned a lot of things for these underage two years in parliament. What I realized somewhere is simply that somehow being a politician in Serbia is a very difficult burden and sometimes it means fighting a windmill, and sometimes you have to say some things you don't think about and don't stand for, but I think there's just a line as far as you can go. There is a limit of good taste and that there is a limit to which we all must simply say, cannot defend ourselves indefensibly. My colleague Marjanovic, Vesna Marjanovic, explained and explained what was going on, how it was happening since I was a member of this committee. I can confirm that everything was just like that, anyway, there are stenograms, there are videos and can be checked. What else did I want to add, and why am I talking about my own personal story? Very often we hear complete negative stories about the civil sector here. I hear something that is completely ignorant of civil sector procedures. I hear something that's not true, lies, and maybe let me have a hard word and nonsense when it comes to the civil sector. A large number of people in Serbia are working in the civil sector and are doing the job with extreme honor and honesty. It's not true that money is easy. It's not true he doesn't have control. There's a control that our state, financial control, there's a control that donors do. There are a lot of people who, I say, are honest, honest and sometimes with their heads in a bag doing their job. That's why I say I have bitter taste in my mouth today. Why the voice of the civil sector in one way, I would say, in the wrong way, is being twisted and not accepted as a good source. It seems to me that we have a kind of division in our society again. Let's share again with traitors and patriots. I'm sorry, I can't let anyone be more patriot than I am, because I put my head on a log and I'll always put it in Serbia to live better. What does that mean? If we criticise, if we say something that is wrong, that we are enemies of the state, that we are enemies of society, that we are enemies of the citizens. Well, friends, colleagues, when you criticize your child, you must be doing it for the best of purposes. You work to make your child better, to make progress. You don't say -- bravo for failure. We don't say - it's great if you make stupid things and mistakes. Well done if he got along with his friends. Is that what you're telling your kids? The way we behave in our home, it would be good for us to behave in politics as well. I'd like what I believe in as a human being, as a person, to do it in my own business, and I'm doing it at least. And that's why I think that if you say a very specific and concrete criticism of some members of REM and if what is now a very interesting topic, if we're talking about people who have become members of the RTS Management Board, I simply can't resist saying a few words about it, and I think it's our face, our picture. If we choose bad people, if we choose bad partners in business, if we choose a bad godfather, if we choose bad company, that's our face. If we can't, if the RTS Management Board who chose exactly this slim composition of REM rejects one Serbian Turajlic, one Free Stupar, Boška Jaksic, people who are, as I would say, the most important people in our community, people the world respects, and we applaud some reality star. I was ashamed when I watched the interview she had on TV, she wants Serbia to become "The Great Brother". Friends, colleagues, associates, fellow Members, if you care that Serbia looks like a "Great Brother" to me, it's a shame. I don't want Serbia to look like Big Brother. I want Serbia to be a serious, democratic, orderly country, and it will be arranged and democratic when we give the best of us a chance. I repeat again, I am not a politician. I don't know how to make political speeches, but I'll always say my attitude everywhere, even if it costs me my life. And I think it's embarrassing for the SNS, this is what I'm most friendly about... . (Aida Ćorovic, from the place: Just push, Mr. Risticevic...) [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46599	MPs, I won't interrupt with that. You didn't say anything about authentic interpretation. I've been maximum tolerance, but don't just because you're calling yourself a representative of civil society, contest anyone's right to have a certain political opinion. Nobody does that, let alone a representative of civil society. And don't share, stick labels to colleagues who think differently than you do. (Aida Ćorovic, from the place: I do not dispute it. You challenge, and you insult. And you didn't say anything about authentic interpretation, so I listened very carefully. So, please, without labelling by the civil society of people who deal with politics honorably, because it is honorable to deal with politics. It's no shame at all. (Aida Ćorovic, from the city: But it would be good if the civil sector reacted... But we haven't heard about the entire civil sector today, if you represent the entire civil sector of this country. I don't want to pollute, but the civil sector is very wide in this country. (Aida Ćorovic, from the post: I represent myself, myself, I have no right to represent the civil sector. I just can't let you challenge the difference. You have no right yet. Later. The difference of opinion here, everyone has the right to their political opinion and attitude. (Aida Ćorovic, from the place: I apologize. There's no need. Just keep going. MPs, come in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46600	So, I apologize if it offends anyone. But it's just that my attitude is the same, that if a person like Mrs. Shuica or similar characters, if they're our best face, then I congratulate all of us and I have nothing else to say. So, let me just go back on the subject. So it's about abuse of the procedure of authentic interpretation of the law and I think the law itself has simply left, let's say, space and places to freely interpret things and to come to some inconsistencies, to create some kind of confusion that post-festum will interpret. I also call on my colleagues, as my colleague said, that this member should change and to specify what to change in the future and to specify what it is, so that no such situation happens in the future, as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46601	I'm sorry I didn't sign up for this discussion. I have to keep my mouth shut right now. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to lose my reaction, given that it is a member of civil society, as the lady said herself, advertising Article 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46603	Just name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46604	I just said, Article 107(1). – The speaker at the meeting of the Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, etc. The previous speaker spoke, mixed up the subject. Instead of REM, he talked about RTS, about the program council, about the board of directors, and I didn't mind it, but that some members of a political party, and that in doing so, a member of a civil society himself, would call it shameful, embarrassing, etc., for me, it's totally unacceptable, and I think that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and it is her right to deal with politics, regardless of what a member of the so-called so-called National Assembly is. civil society, the NGO sector, and I don't dispute it at any time, but I don't think it has the right to insult those who don't hide behind the civil sector, deal with politics, and therefore, I'm not asking, given its minimal political experience, for her to be warned, punished, but I pray that she takes care of it in the future, given that something that is offensive is in no way convincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46605	You want to vote? Since I asked for a letter, she apologized, and I don't think there were any evil intentions, but in the heat of the discussion against Big Brother, that's how we're going to interpret it, and then we're not going to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if the opposition MPs participated in such television formats, but my God, it's the right choice, to participate in Big Brother, and George Galova is in the British Parliament, and so there's this around the world. The word is Vesna Marjanović, on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46606	Just tell me how much time we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46607	Nine minutes and 44 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46608	I would like to rephrase in some way, give my opinion, on some of the statements that we have now heard and the views that have been made. Unfortunately, in much of what we have heard in the last few minutes, by colleagues from the parliamentary majority, there have been many lies and, of course, many ignorances. As for the fact that the colleague said the deal wasn't reached, it's an absolute lie. There is a record, certified with signatures, of all the participants of the procedure, which best confirms whether anyone agreed, which means they accept the agreement. Whoever thought no agreement was reached doesn't put a signature on that document, and I guess it's familiar to everyone and you don't have to be a lawyer to understand it, every citizen knows it, so maybe even an illiterate citizen knows what it means to sign it. Secondly, if there were any misunderstandings, there was no misunderstanding. If there were any misunderstandings, all of us as MPs, the members of the Committee who conducted this procedure, could have since the first day, since October of the month when the procedure began, said that we had misunderstandings and that at the beginning of the process we were looking for authentic interpretations. No one thought there was any doubt, until the candidates were elected who were not at will and then suddenly there was a misunderstanding, and that's another lie. As for the observation that my colleague Ćorović missed the topic of RTS, about the UO RTS, I believe that this is basic ignorance, since the Agency, or the Council for Regulatory Bodies, Electronic Media, Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, is dealing with RTS. They just named members of the UO RTS the other day. We're talking today about who we're running for there, and whether these people are going to defend public interest or defend personal interests, particular interests or party interests. And by choosing a man in this way, don't get baptized, this isn't a church, I apologize, therefore, for choosing REM members in this way, you give the public the right to suspect that these people there will defend the interests of citizens. The question of reality of the show is not such a consumer question, that it exists in some other countries, that is not enough reason not to point out the devastating consequences that these shows have on ours, above all, the youngest citizens, and our children and under what conditions these shows take place is also within REM's jurisdiction, so no one missed the topic. But you're trying to relativate one very serious thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46609	Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will tell you that I support the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, in the way that it was proposed by the committee responsible, or by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislativeness, and I regret that this debate which could have been absolutely from the very beginning and finally been carried out in a peaceful and dignified way, in an appropriate tone, was not going on, and unfortunately it was expected, unfortunately, the storm, it is bad, but there is a possibility that we can end this debate if we agree in this right and dignified way, and that's a good thing. As far as the proposal is concerned, which is mostly spoken of today, because this second proposal does not seem to have any overinterest and I will deal with this particularly interesting one most. It is a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), (5) and (6). The law on electronic media. We've heard a lot in a certain forest sometimes confusing and contradictory messages, I admit it's not the easiest thing to send a flow, a story, and the point of one who hasn't found himself deep enough to remember for this session today and how we've even come up with an authentic interpretation. Just for the sake of the interested public who follows this, I will first in a minute read what is the subject of what we are dealing with today, that is how the text of the proposal for authentic interpretation begins. And he says that Article 11 in section 4, 5 and 6. The Law on Electronic Media provides that the meeting referred to in Article 2 of the Organisation shall establish by agreement a final proposal of two candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Furthermore, he says if the agreement cannot be reached by agreement of all the organisations listed in Article 1, the final proposal for a joint candidate is determined by a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, this is exactly what happened at a meeting -- an agreement has not been reached. The signatures on the joint conclusion of what happened at the meeting are no guarantee that the agreement has been reached. What do these signatures say? The signatures say everyone confirmed that what was written in the paper happened, and the paper said it was decided by a vote. As the member of the law says - if the agreement was not reached then the vote is made, the agreement was not, because if it were all signed under only two names and said - this is our joint proposal. The deal wasn't why it was voted. Fact number one. What's going on? It happened that for some reason certain representatives of the organisations foreseen by these laws voted in favour of two candidates, while others voted only for one. Both in full belief that what they're doing is the right way, that the vote should be just like that. Why did that happen? For one simple logical reason, which the law on this matter was not precise, he did not say - neither will it be voted like this, nor will it be voted like that. In this sense, the law does not give both rights to one or the other. And today I would really like to discuss this seriously, responsibly as much as possible, and that instead of any kind of flat-rate assessment of what it was like for some party directives to actually talk about principles and principles. On the procedures of ladies and gentlemen, the principle of equality in voting, in my humble opinion, and I do not dispute the right for anyone to conclude that I am mistaken, the principle of equality in voting is something that should be a sort of sacredity in each vote. By giving themselves the breadth, the space, again perhaps it wasn't their fault, because the law in that sense wasn't clear, to assess for themselves how much their voice would be worth, and they were doing it just by taking it, so some voted for two names, some for one. Those who pleaded on this occasion violated that principle. The principle of unity. No one can put their own interpretation into a situation where his voice is worth more than the voice of someone who should be in that vote evenly, so he can't even put himself in a situation where his voice is worth less. The fact is, no one thought about this until it just happened. Why do we today interpret how the law that we have brought ourselves has been said today, is it any shame for this congregation? It's not because when we dealt with this law here, there were no dilemmas. To us it was absolutely clear, understandable, expected, natural even, that if any vote comes to a vote each vote must be worth the same. We don't interpret this ourselves now, we interpret this to those who should apply this law in a way that I once again don't think is real. And when we say whether or not the voice of the civil sector is respected, the problem is that I am the sector in that vote, and there is absolutely no difference on that occasion. When I say the principle, I believe that there is a obligation of the National Assembly that a normal democratic voting process protects, arranges where necessary, here is obviously necessary, those who should have done it alone were not able to do it. Once again, they interpreted everyone in their own way and so we come to this session to deal with authentic interpretation. It's done by the National Assembly. Why? Because in my second humble opinion, my colleague Stojkovic and Nikolic did the only right thing. When does a situation like this happen and if something needs to be interpreted who's invited to do it? The National Assembly. It just can't be simpler. We come to the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, a proposal which is as agreed by the committee responsible says and I will read the conclusion of the proposal where the essence of what is offered is the solution, that the final proposal of the joint candidate is determined by the vote by the representative of each organisation voting for one candidate. So this black on white is the very principle of equality in the vote, and I also consider it a good proposal and therefore I have started any discussion on this topic by supporting the proposed solution for authentic interpretation. The protection of principles, once again, the protection of principles. A principle that is above everything and above each individual. To me, ladies and gentlemen, as someone who is not a member of the Assembly Committee, who has not dealt with preconversions, no name in this procedure, no name we have heard today personally means anything. So, will you be chosen a man who's called one or a man who's called one, personally means absolutely nothing to me. I'm talking about principles and principles today. It is our duty as MPs to protect them, and who will then be elected determines the law and does not object at all that the Assembly is embarrassed and that the procedure has been violated by the fact that we are today engaged in authentic interpretation in this way. What was the shame of the congregation, was one comment? By authentic interpretation, the law changes. Absolutely not. Every part of any bill of law remains as it was, each one stuck stays in its place. We don't change anything, absolutely nothing. It will continue to say that the relevant representatives, i.e. the proposings, will establish candidates for the agreement. It'll still say that if they can't agree to vote. We say to them today, "It's all right, people, you'll vote, you'll plead whatever you want, but we ask you so that everyone's voice is worth the same." It's that simple. We will not, again, respond to one of the comments of today, in this way choose either by either hand or by force of this or by that. It will be chosen by those whom the law predicted to do so and there is absolutely nothing changing. If we are talking about the EU, we are calling for its liquids. Do they include this principle of equality? For the third time in my humble opinion, I am convinced that it belongs and that by protecting it we are actually doing well in respect of those good flows and those good practices that rule in that part of the world that we see ourselves to a certain extent and to whom we want to belong according to these values, standards, procedures, clarity and fair play. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's the only right way to solve this by adopting the proposed authentic interpretation, and when we mention the possibility of discussing the grudges and some other organizations that have been involved in this process, which certainly exist, I would remind the Committee's position at the session I was present at, and I heard it on the case, it was – nothing controversial. It's going to be debated, everyone's going to be heard, but doesn't it make sense that if we go into the procedure of authentic interpretation, first we're going to put that procedure through and then we're going to talk to anyone who wants to. Perhaps those who have had certain objections, certain doubts, will no longer have these doubts when the National Assembly tells them by authentic interpretation of its position and some things. I think it's all completely and meaningfully logical in place. Once again, I urge that we bring this discussion to an end in a dignified way, and that everyone pleads according to their conscience. Our conscience is absolutely peaceful. Not only that, it's a personal honor for me and perhaps my colleagues to share my opinion, to be at the service of the people every time there's a chance to defend a principle, every time there's a need for it. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46611	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46612	Ladies and gentlemen, there are three notes I would like to make here at the National Assembly session on our debate on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Articles 11 and 5. The law on electronic media. First of all, gentlemen, I think it's very good that we don't have guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia here today. It is for all of us MPs and folk MPs of opportunity, I think we should look into one serious occasion, face our own actions in this assembly of the National Assembly, to check once more with ourselves, how we prepared ourselves for discussions at our National Assembly meetings on different points of the agenda, and for what legislative projects, gentlemen, we voted here. I think it's important to note. The second note is next. Namely, I think the debate on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), 5th and 6. The Law on Electronic Media, a testimony as the announced reform laws, and we've heard a lot about the reform character of the so-called. The media set of laws that Minister Tasovac defended here, as such in the announcement of reform laws, respected gentlemen, become rags of law. And Mrs. Marjanovic spoke very carefully about it here today. She spoke of the fact that these laws had been changed for the first time, since the first time they were adopted, and then when it was seen, gentlemen, that there was no end to these changes, it resorted to one way to mask the need for another change, for example, this law, and that disguise was translated into an authentic interpretation that, and Mrs. Marjanovic, I think, proved it here today, changes one law. Dear gentlemen, frequent changes to the law in a short period of time, authentic interpretations that serve as a replacement of the amendment of a law, testify that we here do not adopt good laws, gentlemen, but what is presented as a reform law is most appropriate to describe as a patch of the law. A third note, honored gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, when we are already facing not as authority and opposition, but with myself, I myself, every MP with myself here, then it is important to point out and finally agree that we must not play with procedures and procedures in the National Assembly. This item of the agenda – Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), (5) and (6) The e-media law, to hear and hear Mr. Orlic, all the gentlemen who discussed it, is toying with the procedure. This should never, gentlemen, happen at any session of our National Assembly, because the basic function of our National Assembly is legislative. When Mr. Orlic says - the law is not precise, I wonder, gentlemen, why when we discussed this law did not respect our argument that this law is imprecise, but now, after some time, Mr. Orlic says - the law is imprecise and we have to act? Well, why did you vote for such a law, gentlemen? Why did you not listen more carefully to these words that we have told you, after serious preparations for each session of the National Assembly, than is now said – it is imprecise, so let's take an authentic interpretation to correct inaccuracy? Dear gentlemen, Minister Tasovac, before becoming minister, said the media is a praetorian guard of every government. He's doing his part to prove this to a maximum. My expectation was not that, and I would like it very much, and I agree here with the President of the National Assembly, when she says that she should also participate in this debate, that as a lawyer she performs here in the protection of integrity, dignity, respect for the rights, rules and procedures of our National Assembly from the position of the National Assembly President, which is the most important position in our constitutional system, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46613	Thank you. You didn't have an amendment to Article 11, I remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46614	I can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46615	You didn't have any, especially on section 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46616	If you'll allow me another two minutes, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46617	Next time. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46618	Thank you, Madam President. It'll be drastically shorter. Answer a few questions referred to me. Why didn't it react during some of the apparitions that there was a problem here? As I recall, but I'm absolutely ready to face a contradiction from the other side if, at some point, someone feels the need for it, I absolutely don't remember anyone pointing out a potential problem here, in this matter that we're dealing with right now, in this authentic interpretation. Why? For those reasons that I mentioned earlier, which, unfortunately, some did not hear, come on, give attention, I understand everything, because it was absolutely understandable to us as MPs, because we understood a certain principle and a certain principle. Once again, we don't interpret this to each other or ourselves. We are now helping those who should make a certain decision, but apparently without proper interpretation on the side, or by the Assembly, that, the practice, unfortunately, was not able. It's just like that. Once again, I would like to call on us to determine this properly, properly and correctly, and avoid any further political consideration. The fact that at the same time messages arrive on the same side that everything is absolutely fine here and that it should not be interpreted authentically and texts – well, nothing is wrong, we thought the whole law should be resolved, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, seriously, as the place where we are and the requirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46619	He wouldn't allow you a replica, nor did he mention you. I mean, it's a good try, but it's not gonna happen. Very cultural, moderate, measured, my God. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I answered the word. We have more MPs on the list, Srdjan Dragojevic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: I am an authorised representative. You're authorized? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: I have been waiting for a long time.) You two checked in. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I guess I have an advantage? Don't give Srdjan a word? Hold on. You're wrong. Rules of Procedure, we're going to need a little more mandate. So, first I give the word to Srdjan Dragojevic, who is on the list, and then by article 96. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: What were you supposed to give earlier...) I shouldn't have done it before. Nema Jovanovic, you don't know the Rules of Procedure at all. I'm sorry. The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Dragojevic, if he still wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46620	I apologize to Neji. I just need to draw attention to one thing. A colleague said for a little while that no one had turned their attention to potential problems. All I have to say is that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, I've just drawn attention to certain problems. I would like to continue this discussion in one spirit of tolerance, because this is primarily about elemental logic. Logic requires the following. In fact, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, I said the following thing – one candidate reported 14 NGOs, although they had to report two candidates under the law. The other 17 organizations reported two candidates, by law. I asked the Committee on Culture to comply with the law and to eliminate these 14 NGOs that applied for only one candidate. We've come to this problem and now we're asking to vote for one candidate, unfortunately, there's not much logic. This is about algebra about at the level of the first to third grade primary school, because if NGOs vote for one candidate, they can all vote for one and the same candidate, so that one candidate can come to the Assembly for a decision, instead of two, as necessary. So, the law is not imprecise. The law says that two candidates are proposed and that they vote for two candidates, in order to certainly allow two candidates to come before us to the Assembly, and we would choose one. So there's one thing that makes sense. We can say whatever we want. We can declare that the ground is a flat plate, but it's not, it's round. There's not even those four elephants holding that flat plate. So I really ask that we go back to common sense, go back to elementary school, arithmetic and look at these arguments that are very simple. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46621	So there are no more entries on the lists for the word. According to Article 96, Nedjo Jovanovic has the word and if anyone else is entitled to Article 96, Vesna Marjanovic after.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46622	Thank you, Your Honor. I checked in at a time when authorized representatives were supposed to be discussing it, but you didn't notice. I know the Rules of Procedure well, but I won't argue with you about it. As far as authentic interpretation is concerned, I will come from something that has not been affirmed in the current course of the debate, which is an interpretation and it is an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). The copyright and related first laws. I see that there is not much dispute, and that there is a significant topic, not only because of us here, but rather because of the citizens and those to whom this law applies, and it concerns all the creators of literary, scientific and other works, who must enjoy the proper degree of protection, in my opinion, far greater than this law is prescribed. If we're going to speak extremely openly and honestly, then we're going to come into a situation where the full law and all the provisions of the Copyright Act can be brought under one glass and say whether those provisions of the law satisfy that degree of protection for copyright holders that these holders deserve. As a lawyer, as a lawyer, I am prepared to stand up to protect all these copyright holders and say that their degree of protection, in this sense, is not adequate and should be better, and should be better. In this direction, one of the contributions to increasing the degree of protection of copyright holders is this authentic interpretation. I don't think that's enough either. I think we need to do even more and I think that, as MPs, we will not, because soon we will stop our mandate to the MPs, whether one of us will be it again or not, depends on the election of election results, but in any case whoever is here, has an obligation to take this subject seriously and to bring the Copyright Act to the level that satisfies the protection of the copyright holder. Who are the copyright holders? Could they be plagiarizers, pirates? Can these be those who practice machinations and abuses, thus polluting water for those who honorably, congratulate the creation of spiritual works, spiritual formations, authentic intellectual works, or are these the first ones I spoke about a few seconds ago? I agree with the proposal for authentic interpretation and, on behalf of the SPS Group, I welcome that this authentic interpretation should have an even greater affirmation. I welcome that today we are in a position to be witnesses, that not only photographs, as indicated in authentic interpretation, but various other quasi values, if I have ever used a good term, experience affirmation where we cannot experience affirmation, where we have scientists, writers, where we have scientific creators, where we have artists who are holders of copyrights that have to be protected, and unfortunately they are not, where we have in various tabloids a variety of writings, photographs that can experience protection where this should never happen, and unfortunately such protection is experienced, and they even exercise the right to judicial protection and adequate compensation. That's absolutely inadmissible. It is inadmissible because of citizens, it is inadmissible because of the copyright holders themselves, it is unacceptable for all those who cultivate the spiritual and all other values that a society must have in order to exist as a society, and Serbia must have them to exist, as a decent and orderly state, as we often hear in the political vocabulary today. I have to remind myself of what it is that is the concept of copyright. This is the right enjoyed by the creators of literary, scientific and artistic works, which implies exclusively the right to use or approve other uses of such copyright, which includes a system of protection of rights. Have we, my dear colleagues, Members of Parliament and all citizens of Serbia, managed to affirm this concept of copyright through practical law enforcement? We didn't. I told you honestly, I stand on it and I will insist that this authentic interpretation contributes to this notion of copyright aphirming in the way that copyright deserves it. The author is entitled to copyright in his authorial work by the performance of the author's work, not by transmission and publication from one tabloid to another tabloid, from one medium to another medium. One day we'll get into a situation where anything in the reality program is shown, as something that's most vulgar, can be appreciated as an authorial work. That would be devastating for society. That would be devastating for our spirituality, it would be devastating for everything that implies the elemental values of a society. That is why I welcome the promoter, and I also suggest that this authentic interpretation contributes to something that should have been done long ago, because it has long been in force of the Copyright Act, and we have not done too much of its practical application, nor have we dealt with the consequences of what means copyright protection. I must remind, because of Serbian citizens, copyrights are not subject to administrative or registration procedures, but that is why citizens need to know that copyright is protected, above all, by the work, not the very idea that leads to this act as expressions of the human spirit, regardless of the content and quality of such expression. When we get to that level, then we can say that in the field of copyright we have made some progress and some progress. Therefore, the SPS will undoubtedly support, on Voting Day, this authentic interpretation, but while I am already in this field of debate or discussion, then I must also touch on what caused the controversy, which is a number of controversy today in the debate, which is an authentic interpretation of the Law on Electronic Media, and that is the provisions of Article 11(4), fifth and sixth. The law on electronic media. At one point, it was called whether there was a legal interpretation to get a certain point of view by profession or whether such an interpretation was rightly acceptable or not legally acceptable. I believe that, as a lawyer and a lawyer with years of experience, I have the right, as a national MP who has been delegated to be here, and I have an obligation to say something about it. First of all, the authentic interpretation, in accordance with the provisions of the law, gives exclusively the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. No one else has that legitimacy to give authentic interpretation except for that committee. Are we going to have an objection to such interpretation or are we not going to depend on the point of view, or are we looking at any of us present here whether we are questioning this authentic interpretation by the law itself, whether we are questioning the possible excess of the legal framework, or whether we are doing what is in the spirit of the law? In a particular case, what can legally be said, is this kind of authentic interpretation legally acceptable? Yes, it is. It is from the point of view of the legitimacy of one who brings such interpretation, it is one. Two, from the point of view of what implies his obligation to make a certain legal point of view regarding the interpretation of a particular member. Unfortunately, this member refers, I understood it from the discussion, although I am not a member of the Committee, although I did not have the opportunity to obtain information that would give me the basis to express my objective position and approach on the subject we are discussing, relates mainly to REM, as a body which, among other things, deals with issues of protection of certain values that must also play such a role in electronic media, i.e. being under a special prism of protection of exactly the values I spoke about earlier. There's a couple of times here where there's this reality programs thing or reality shows. Here it is indeed a matter of tolerance to something that is decadent, something that destroys and destroys the fabric of society, something that destroys our values. But let's not forget and let's not be under any great amnesia and not be a chicken memory, it's not that realistic program from yesterday, this reality program is already taking longer, this reality program is being implemented back and forth through the electronic media for years and years, and we unfortunately tolerate something like that. The Socialist Party of Serbia is firmly on the view that in order to protect cultural and all other values, appropriate attention must be given. That electronic media must one day eliminate or delete programs that endanger all that rests tissue and peoples and nations and states. In this case, it's a very dangerous cancer that can experience metastases, I'm afraid it's not metastasizing and that we don't experience something that will one day represent literally a breakdown or a breakdown of all values. In order not to distance myself from authentic interpretation, I am inclined to accept an absolute thesis from at least that democratic aspect, the thesis of my esteemed colleague Srdjan Dragojevic when he spoke of what does not differ from authentic interpretation in the legal sense of words, but the thesis that speaks of the vote or the approach of voting for two candidates. The simple reason is that in this way the democratic capacity is increasing, and on the other hand the legislative regulation is going in that direction that if we go to the choice, the choice of two candidates, then these two candidates are at the same time the field to which the entire voting body is directed, or votes are directed in the most democratic way because it is precisely the approach that reflects the full degree of democracy that I will define or not define myself. However, I will, as a lawyer, remain on what I consider to be an essential right, which is that the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs has given an interpretation as competent, it is authentic. I find it strange that such an interpretation is given to an amendment, very strange. Because I believe that the amendment to authentic interpretation is an absolute legal nonsense, but if someone interpreted it in the Rules of Procedure the way he wanted it to be, then I will accept that such interpretation can also appear here in the Assembly, as various kinds of interpretations appear. Finally, I will take the view that the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs has proposed something to the Assembly that involves not overstepping the legal frameworks, but interpreting the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46623	Thank you. The word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46624	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try very briefly. What always surprises me here in the Assembly is that when some critical tones are directed to the government or to the parliamentary majority, that it is considered a political reckoning or that it is considered unserious and irresponsible. I believe that we have taken an oath here, that we respect the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure above all, and I believe that there have been violations of both the law and the Rules of Procedure, and that I am still standing in this authentic interpretation in an area that I do not need to deal with in this procedure. No one said that the Constitutional Affairs Committee should not bring authentic interpretation, of course it should and should be authorised. But he also entered, he introduced a new provision, he's trying to put in a standard that's not prescribed by law. So only existing norms are interpreted, not new norms. So if you wanted to do that, you could have suggested it in a different procedure. That's my opinion. Secondly, if the Committee is the final point of making authentic interpretation, then what is going to the Assembly? I apologize that there was no need to respect the Rules of Procedure and to vote on it here. If we're discussing it, then we have the right and to influence the possible change of that text if we're already being suggested here. That's why it's called a proposal, not a final authentic interpretation, but an authentic interpretation that we as MPs have the right to react to. I would also like to say this, I still believe that the parliamentary majority has stood on one side and that this is in some way the application of force. Which is why, because she made this decision solely on the basis of one part of the objection, she completely rejected the other, in fact ignored it. It thus suggests that it only supports one group of organisations and only one candidate, Mr. Goran Pekovic. The fact that you said you didn't know who the candidates were, I don't know any of them either, some I know. Most of us should know from the public. These are public figures and in a particular case this gentleman has already been a member of this agency so far. The public, and above all, the congregation that chooses these people, has the right to judge their impact so far. We therefore have the right to talk about who the candidates are. It doesn't matter who they are, it doesn't matter who they are. So in my opinion, seeing everything that's been going on so far cares about one side and a kind of force is being carried out. If the law wanted us to intervene in this way in the process, it would have given us those powers, not given us those powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46625	Thank you. Only formally, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to inform you that we will work after 18 hours if necessary. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46626	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in my next presentation, I would like to refer myself to the presentation of my colleague Neda Jovanovic and to inform you that at the end of December 2015 at the Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). Law on copyright and related rights, adopted by the National Assembly in 2009. I believe that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is unclear and inaccurate in the very interpretation of the copyright, where it is necessary to adopt authentic interpretation by the legislator, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The law gives the definition of the author's work that the author's work, I remind you, is the digital spiritual creation of the author, made in the proper form regardless of its artistic, scientific and other value, its purpose, size, content and manner of expression as the permission of public disclosure of its content. The reasons why I submitted this proposal to the Committee is precisely that, because we are aware every day of the increasing abuse of rights, due to insufficiently clear and precise provisions of Article 2. Law on copyright and related rights. I also believe that it is necessary to determine the true meaning and the very meaning of this particular member of the law that defines copyright, but it is also important to determine which works enjoy real protection within the meaning of this law. The 20th century is, I remind you, a century of digital technology. We have an appearance of hyperproduction of photographs due to the development of technical devices. We have smart phones, we have tablets of devices, cameras, and a man makes a large number of photos every day by just one click. It's a mechanical store, not an artistic creation of a particular photograph. So, it comes to making a large number of so-called. routinely taken photos that appear by electronic means. So, we have selfies, various car photos on the move, we take photos in public places every day, and my dilemma was – can we view these photos as copyright works? They are not an authorial work and we are all aware of it and cannot respect copyright and legal protection as such. So there must be a clear difference between ordinary photography, routine photographs that we make daily and the one that is the author's work. I would like, at the end of my presentation, to quote a book, which deals in a very serious way, this topic. It is about the book "Internet Law", by Dragan Pilja, Marija Riljanović and Dr Zvonimir Ivanovic. The following is said: photography as an art must possess an exceptional degree of originality and creativity, which separates itself from ordinary photography, i.e. must have a certain artistic value, because there was a certain degree of originality and in order to determine that one photo is an art piece, it is necessary that it is the result of intellectual, creative activity, which is so individual, that two people independent of each other, it is reasonable to assume that they would not produce the exact same or similar result. With this in mind, works of the authorship, and therefore photographs that enjoy legislative protection, should be just the works of the author who, as the creations of the human spirit, exceed routine, physical and mental works that meet the daily needs of the profession in the work. What I just said, I quoted the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which was delivered on 12.7.2011. Finally, I would like to remind you that there are examples of positive practices in the countries of the former Yugoslav republics, the countries in the environment, then in countries such as one Switzerland, the United States and Germany, which have defined in their legal regulations, i.e. in their case-law what is a simple photograph and that this photo is actually considered a simple technical reproduction. For this reason, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support the authentic interpretation of Article 2(2) in the Voting Day. Law on related and copyright adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-19-0.u46627	I'm concluding a joint principled search. We continue our work on Friday 22 January 2016 at 10.00 hours by discussing amendments to the first group of laws. The committees will work Thursday because there are many amendments. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 120 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Kovacevic, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović and Biljana Ilic Stosic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Bill on Police. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that today they are invited to attend Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister Jana Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry, Milorad Todorovic, Ministry Secretary Natasa Milidragovic, independent co-ordinator for Legal Affairs and Milan Andrić and Dejan Joksimovic, from the Police Directorate. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
